===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
         MINUTES  
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
January 16 2019 at 7:00 PM 
 
PLEASE NOTE DUE TO A POSTING ISSUE THIS MEETING WAS DECALRED NOT VALID 
HOWEVER DISUSSION PERSUED AND A REPOSTING AND REVOTING WILL TAKE PLACE PER 
THE ATTORNEY GENERALS RECOMMENDATION ON 2/6/19 at the RITTER BUILDING 960 
MASS AVE. ALL VOTED CONTINUANCES WERE VOTED FOR FEB 6th 2019 at the RITTER 
BUILDING 
 
Call to Order TD chairing the meeting all members attending.  
Announcements     JR noted that there was a stormwater meeting and there was a consultant bid and there are 
negotiations still ongoing.                                                                                         
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
(DEP 208-1153) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Michael and Barbara Coulombe for demolition and reconstruction to a single 
family home with grounds work including the removal of 2 trees within the buffer zone at 98 Horizon Island Road. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public is invited to attend the 
meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 2019 at 7:00 PM.  
 
Steve Marsden attending representing the applicant. He brought updated plans to the meeting and distributed. He outlined the 
particulars of the site and noted that the home is on a slab that needs replacement. He noted that the home would not expand 
the non conformity. JR noted that the wrap around deck is new. The shed is proposed to be removed and that it is within the 30 
foot zone and with the tar papered walk way would result in 722 square of impervious removed from the 30 foot no touch zone. 
The shape of the home itself would make a 25 square foot reduction. Roof runoff will be sent to an underground discharge 
system. He outlined trees to be removed. Four trees that will be removed are damaged or dying.  The deck location is new 
however will not result in increased impervious nor increase the non conformity. Mr. Marsden reviewed the stone walkway and 
work proposed to it. CL noted his plans do not have a 30 or 50 foot zone. It was noted the plan of record does and the plans he 
brought were supplemental with an overlay to better show quantified changes. RB examined the proposed new foundational 
details. RB asked about stockpiles. Mr. Marsden noted there will be no stockpiling. The water line is existing. The grading a round 
the foundation will not be changed and no fill is proposed to be brought in. RB asked about the  landscape plan. There was no 
landscape plans. MM asked about the trees remaining. Mr Marsden noted that there will still be trees on the lot. RB square 
footage.cl inquired about the steps and was examining any potential foot print expansion and noted it w as work within the 30 foot 
zone. Mr. Marsden noted that it was currently crushed stone and would not expand outside of the crushed stone noted that the 
area of the crushed stone is underlaid by tar paper.TD asked if the basement would have a sum pump? Mr. Marsden noted no 
that the basement level would be a foot an half the high water mark. TD asked about heat and it would be by propane. An 
emergency sump would either be infiltrated on site or out into the road towards a catch basin. RB asked about the height of the 
===PAGE 2===
deck. Mr Marsden noted it would be about 3 feet off ground. RB asked about any additional vegetation. Mr. Marsden responded 
that the area is not vegetated currently and he reminded that the roof drainage would be attenuated underground.  MM noted that 
the tar paper was replaced. A motion for a standard Order based on 30 no touch zone variance due to no increase of non 
conformity with any additional sump pump discharge will be directed away from the lake by BP and a second by KJ with 
aunanimous roll call vote was taken. 
 
(DEP 208-1150) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public 
is invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 2019 at 
7:00 PM  
 
Continued by a motion of KJ and a second by CC with a unanimous roll call vote was taken.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination of Applicability by Keith Beaudoin for The placement of a sea sonal dock  at 264 
Prospect Street Lot 8. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by  
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting will take place at the Bilotta Meeting Room, 2 nd Floor, 17 Main Street, Town Hall at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Continued by a motion of KJ and a second by CC with a unanimous vote was taken.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination of Applicability by : 
 
Paul and Jennifer Agnese 12 Butterfly Lane,  Glenn and Laura Kuczer11 Butterfly Lane, David Janvrin and Tammy Zarba 
10 Butterfly Lane, Michael and Laura Cool 8 Butterfly Lane, Kevin and Allison Ladouceur 6 Butterfly Lane. 
 
for the placement of a Shed within the Buffer Zone. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Bilotta Meeting Room, 2 nd Floor, 17 Main Street, Town Hall 
at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend. 
 
CL noted that there was some debris storage. He pointed it out to the residents. Paul Agnese was under 
the impression that plantings were supposed to go in after the Mulc. MM calrified trhe requirement for the 
plantings. 
 
Motion for a negative determination was made by Cl and a second by JR with a unanimous roll call vote. 
 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road 
EO -55 Spring Street- update By Steve Marsden 
155 Reservoir Road- meeting with the residents – 
MM -relayed the history . CL pointed out some very small areas of the drawing that may need 
correction. Mike Hughes of 131 Reservoir Road noted that there is about 78000 square feet c urrently. 
Mr. Marchettis proposed work on the lots  
EO Emerald Place Beach 
Shady Point-beach erosion 
New Business –   Grant opportunities for trails 
  Change in Wetland regulations to add a 5% fee for online files (Continued as new business ) 
===PAGE 3===
         
Old Business -  LSIC- Draft Order of Conditions Discussion- and update on drawdown (levels) 
             Work at the Small Town Forest- 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – Updates If any.  
Certificates of Compliance –   
Extension Permit – Young’s Road 208-1072 & 1073 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of and December 5 and December 19th ( 2018) and January 2, 2019 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 101 Pleasant Street – EO /fine update 
 842R Chase Road – if any 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory hills general update (If any) 
 Shady Point – work on planning for erosion control 
 Misc. updates 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is February 6, 2019 at 7:00 PM in 
the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave   