===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
   NOTICE OF MEETING  
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
January 2 2019 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded.  
 
AGENDA  
Call to Order All members were in attendance  except CC and RB who participated remotely until 7:30 PM 
Announcements    
                                                                                           
Public Comment 
 KJ and BP had finished 95% of the main trail at small town forest. 
 
 JR asked members to reconsider the vote for Powell Stone and Gravel. He outlined reasons in a narrative proposed. 
RB noted areas of the parcel that could not be developed. JR outlined the economic and the 10% thresholds in the 
rivers protection act. He opined that he felt strongly it did not meet requirements. He feels the decision would get 
appealed. TD opened the commission and the public to comments. RB stated that he Echoed JR’s comments. CL felt 
there wasn’t enough information and we had valid questio ns that were not answered. RB added areas of disturbance he 
feels was not addressed. TD read the narrative of impacts to the riverfront the engineer. BP says individual comments 
do not speak to for the commission and that the commission is a body. He furth er stated that the applicant had an 
expert and that the DEP comments were reviewed and that the expert submitted a document showing the DEP 
responses. BP feels the reasoning on the wildlife habitats was not valid in this case. He feels that we are a body t o get 
people to comply and not be punitive. KJ feels that enough information was presented. JR moved to reconsider the 
vote. CL seconded the roll call vote was RB CL and JR vote yes and TD BP AND KJ voted no. The motion to reconsider 
failed. JR noted that he would not sign the Order of Conditions. 
 
BP- Now that we have an open space plan that we have recreation trail grant opportunities. He spoke with Heather 
regarding trail grant opportunities. He wants to purchase locus signs for various signage. He outli ned various 
proposals for the grant.  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Michael and Barbara Coulombe for demolition and reconstruction to a single 
family home with grounds work including the removal of 2 trees within the buffer zone at 98 Horizon Island Road. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public is invited to attend the 
meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 2019 at 7:00 PM.  
 
===PAGE 2===
The applicant requested a continuance due to the lack of a DEP number to the 16 th of January. 7:00 PM motion by KJ and a 
second by BP with a unanimous vote. 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a CONTINUED public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Steven Violette for repairs of a roadway and reconstruction of a 
bridge deck at 181 Kilburn Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, The public is invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use 
building on January 2, 2019 at 7:00 PM. 
 
Tom Christopher appeared before the commission an outlined the history of the emergency permit and the further work that will 
now need to be done. He outlined the history of his site. He noted that the existing deck would be removed and there would be 
steel beams used. He showed the commission pictures of an example of the same structure put to span a stream in Lancaster. 
He estimated that 4 beams would be used. TD asked about any work on the wall. Mr. Christopher stated the opinion that the 
stone culvert was in good shape. It was also noted that the proposed structure would put no weight nor pressure on the wall. TD 
recommended extending the piers out of the zone of influence on the wall. Mr Christopher requested to continue to the March 
20th 2019 meeting. By a motion of JR and a second by BP with a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Documents presented for consideration was a Notice of Intent and a plan entitled “Notice of Intent Plan” both by Green 
Hill Engineering - plan amended December 17, 2018 
(DEP 208-1148) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Joseph Nowlan for construction of a single family home at 507 
West Townsend Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
The public is invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 
2019 at 7:00 PM. 
 
Ms Takahana the property owner appeared before the commission to represent herself as the owner. CL and BP examined the 
lot and the locations of the structures. BP noted that this is a pre-exiting lot.MM produced the original plan and outlined the lot 
line and the wetland line prior on the plan. CL motioned and KJ seconded the house and proposed garage and driveway will be 
reconfigured and the reconfigured plan will show existing and proposed grades and submitted an amendment. Kenneth Chenis 
from the Planning Board spoke to ANR dimensional requirements of wetland versus upland.  
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BY MARK ROODE AND A PLAN OF LAND ENTITLED “ OWN A 
HOME LLC” BY DOUG SMITH DATED  NOVEMBER 2, 2019 
(DEP 208-1151) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Mark Rood for a septic repair with the construction of an addition 
at  13 East Street Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
The public is invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 
2019 at 7:00 PM.. 
 
Maryann Dipinto represented the owner and explained the project and the erosion protection proposed. TD not ed on the shed 
the is proposed to be removed that it is multitiered and asked if the wall is to be removed. The commission examined potentia l 
grading scenarios versus the limits of the property lines. Motion to approve the final plans with the conditions that the final 
gradings in the vicinity of the shed will be put on an amended plan. Junk on the property to be removed.  The commission did 
suggest contacting the abutter about cleaning the property by BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote.  
 
(DEP 208-1150) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public 
is invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 2019 at 
7:00 PM 
 
===PAGE 3===
Continued to the 16th of January by a motion of KJ and a second by BP with a unanimous vote to approve. 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS  NOTICE OF INTENT BY KENNETH CHENIS AND A MODIFIED 
SITE PLAN BY THE APPLICNAT FINAL REVISION OF DECEMBER 31, 2018  
(DEP 208-1149) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Kenneth Chenis for an addition to a single family home with 
modifications to the patio at 50 fire road 24. The Notice also includes a proposal for the modification of the alignment to fire road 
24. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public is 
invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for January 2, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on January 2, 2019 at 7:00 
PM. 
 
Ken Chenis presented the requested updates to his plan as required by the commission. He noted that he has not been able to 
obtain permission to work on on abutters land and submitted a statement attesting he would not work on the property until he 
obtained permission. 
 
A motion for a standard Order of Conditions with the additional condition the work on the abutting property would not be worked 
on until permission is obtained from that landowner by KJ and a second by BP with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road 
EO -55 Spring Street- update By Steve Marsden- MM noted that Mr. Marsden will present at the next 
meeting as he will be present for the public hearing.  
Butterfly Lane- update on multiple NON’s –  
155 Reservoir Road- update on meeting schedule 
EO Emerald Place Beach- Mark Bursch appeared representing the owner. He outlined the continuing 
efforts to maintain and improve the area. CL outlined 2 issues was the area of the edge of the parking 
and it appears to be functional. The second was the general runoff. CL feels th ere is a design issue of 
water coming from the building. Mr Bursch explained the stone trenching from the buildings and that 
the intent of the stone originally was for filtering. Cl feels we should have some documentation and 
the changes that will be made onsite. TD stated that he feels the proposal will be a good first step, 
letter stating work to be done and work modified to have in the file and we will see what happens on 
the next season. 
Shady Point-beach erosion 
New Business –    
  Change in Wetland regulations to add a 5% fee for online files (Continued as new business) – MM will  
resubmit language to the commission.  
   
       
Old Business -  LSIC- Draft Order of Conditions Discussion BP reviewed his own markup on the draft Order. The Metcalf 
and Eddy report was discussed as to the relevancy of the report in todays work. MM noted that he had a conversation 
with DEP that they will allow a drawdown for one foot more and then it is cutoff  for the season. BP reviewed the draft 
OOC that he marked up and shared with the commission. TD spoke to having specific drawdown levels and target dates 
for each year of the Order of Conditions term.  
             Work at the Small Town Forest- see above public comment 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – Updates If any.  
Certificates of Compliance –   
Extension Permit  
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of and December 5 and December 19th 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
===PAGE 4===
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 101 Pleasant Street – EO /fine update 
 842R Chase Road – if any 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory hills general update (If any) 
 Shady Point – work on planning for erosion control 
 Misc. updates 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is January 19, 2019, 7:00 PM , at 
the Bilotta meeting room, 2nd floor at 17 Main Street Lunenburg, MA 01462   
 
The meeting was adjourned at 10:25 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by JR with a  unanimous vote to adjourn – Note BP left 
the meeting at 10:18 PM 