===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
        MINUTES  
960 Mass Ave, Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
March 6, 2019 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded.  
 
Call to Order  Vice Chair Dwyer presiding. As Chairman Bursch was participating remotely, ALL VOTES CITED IN 
THESE MINUTES ARE ROLL CALL VOTES.  Note: Mr. Rabbitt attempted to participate remotely, however, due to 
internet problems could not maintain connection and is considered absent for this meeting. All other members were 
present with the exception of CL. 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
 DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION AND A PLAN ENTITLED 
“AS-BULT” DATED 1-10-19 BY MARSDEN ENGINEERING.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination by Loretta Godfrey for the acceptance of landscape/patio work on an as build plan at  
55 Spring Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM on March 6, 2019 The public is invited 
to attend. NOTICE: THIS IS TO ADDRESS CURRENT ENFORCEMENT ACTION LAST ON AGENDA ON FEB 20, 2019  
 
Steve Marsden outlined the changes made in the plan and presented and ortho photos. RB asked what was outlined. 
Mr. Marsden noted that the patio is the same size only it is no longer flush to the ground and he also noted that it 
was raised to allow the stone to stop the erosion. RB also asked about impervious in the back. It was noted that there 
was impervious surface and regrind was. He could not confirm the exact size, however, it scales equivalent. TD read 
comments from CL into the record. Mr. Marsden noted that the patio was indeed discussed previously and as a result 
the commission requested and exact built. KJ felt Mr. Lucks photo doesn’t show the exact information needed and 
the applicants does. RB noted that his examination of the ortho’s indicate he agrees with CL. RB indicated that he 
feels there is not enough evidence there was a patio in existence. BP feels that if the patio is being used to recharge 
ground water then it is ok with him. CC indicated she doesn’t have enough information from the pho tos and cant go 
with the as built. KJ indicated that he agrees with BP . TD indicated he wanted to examine the issue CL brought up 
concerning replication. MM noted perhaps removing the pavement from the exiting driveway to the water and 
adding crushed stone to the end of the driveway may help. Mr. Marsden offered to remove the pavement from the 
end of the tight tank to the lake placed crushed stone. RB recommended open Hex pavers in the areas of the tire 
tracks. RB stated he preferred grass in the hex pavers. KJ motioned to issue a negative determination with the 
modification of the pavers to hex pavers along the length of driveway proposed by Mr. Marsden,  in lieu of removal 
of the patio. BP seconded and a roll call vote was an approved unanimous vote. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 John Harrison has filed a request for a determination of applicability  for the placement of a 16 by  
4 rolling dock at 205 sunset lane within the buffer zone of Lake Shirley. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass 
Ave at 7 PM on March 6, 2019 .THIS IS A CONTINUED MEETING FROM FEB 20, 2019 – The public is invited to attend 
 
BP moved to continue the meeting at the applicant’s request. The motion was seconded by CC. 
The meeting was continued to March 20, 2019 at 7 PM . The roll call vote to approve the motion 
was unanimous. 
 
( DEP 208-1154 )Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 ,K & E Realty Trust has filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of an addition 
to a commercial building ( Asian Imperial ) within the buffer zone at 5 Electric Ave. Application and supporting documents ar e 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use building 
at 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. THIS IS A CONTINUED MEETING FROM FEB 20, 2019 – The public is invited to attend 
 
K & E realty represented themselves and reviewed the replication and restoration area and has 
started the restoration planning. TD noted that the dumpsters and proposed restoration area 
should be noted on the plans that will are required to be revised and submitted so the commission 
can review them. It was noted that as long as the proposed expansion was revised as shown 
(slightly reduced in size) and the restoration area shown, the buffer zones shown by K&E on the 
current plan can be used. BP motioned to continue the hearing at the applicant’s request. The 
motion was seconded by KJ. The meeting was continued to March 20, 2019 at 7 PM. The roll 
call vote to approve the motion was unanimous. 
 
(DEP 208-1155) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as Borrego Solar Systems for the construction of a 2.26 Mega Watt Facility at 
190 Electric Avenue within the buffer zone. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use building at 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. THIS IS 
A CONTINUED MEETING FROM FEB 20, 2019 – The public is invited to attend 
 
Brandon Smith representing Borrego Solar, noted comments were addressed. He outlined the 
addressing the commission concerns and outlined the submitted documentation, It was noted 
scheduled construction was in 2020. He did note that he had no issue meeting DEP comments. 
BP moved to continue the meeting at the applicant’s request. The motion was seconded by CC. 
The meeting was continued to March 20, 2019 at 7 PM . The roll call vote to approve the motion 
was unanimous. 
 
 
(DEP 208-1150) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use building at 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. THIS IS A CONTINUED 
MEETING FROM FEB 20, 2019 – The public is invited to attend 
 
BP moved to continue the meeting at the applicant’s request. The motion was seconded by CC. 
The meeting was continued to March 20, 2019 at 7 PM . The roll call vote to approve the motion 
was unanimous. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION AND A PLAN MODIFIED 
BY THE APPLICANT DATED MARCH 7, 2019 WITH UPDATES. 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Request for a Determination of Applicability by Keith Beaudoin for The placement of a seasonal dock  
at 264 Prospect Street Lot 8. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, , the meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use building at 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. THIS 
IS A CONTINUED MEETING FROM FEB 06, 2019 – The public is invited to attend 
 
Mr. Beaudoin appeared representing himself. After reviewing the plans, KJ inquired if a gate 
was going to cut into the fencing. Mr. Beaudoin indicated yes, however the fencing would 
remain otherwise in place. A motion was made to issue a negative determination by KJ. It was 
seconded by CC and the motion was approved by a unanimous roll call vote. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a CONTUNED Notice of Intent by NJLJ properties for the re-development of an existing retail site to construct fuel 
dispensing area, convenience store and drive thru donut shop within the buffer zone of a wetland resource area at 400 Electri c 
Ave. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will 
take place at the Ritter memorial Land Use building at 960 Mass Ave at 7:00 PM. THIS IS A CONTINUED MEETING FROM FEB 
20, 2019 – The public is invited to attend. 
 
Patrick McLaughlin was present to represent NJLJ. He reviewed comment and changes to the 
plan from the last meeting. TD read comments from CL into the record, inclusive of a concern 
that perhaps the commission should consider using a similar device installed in the Unitil project 
to stop petroleum discharges. MM examined the plan and stated his opinion that the current plan 
for an actuator valve that would close was sufficient for this application. RB stated he felt 
inclined to agree with CL. After some discussion, BP moved to close the hearing and approve an 
Order of Conditions with the following corrections to be submitted prior to the Order of 
Conditions being issued: 
 
 Corrections for Sheets 6, 7 and 11 noting the figures of disturbances and work within the 30 foot zone listed in a note, 
details on the proper coordination of electrical details for the valve shut off, the valve shut off/motor details submitted, 
training documentation for the shutoff operation and maintenance added and the correction to the Notice of Ident cited 
by DEP. 
 Full size updated plans with all corrections be added to the plans. 
 
KJ seconded and the commission voted by roll call with TD, BP, KJ and CC voting for the 
motion and RB voting against the motion as he stated he felt the meeting should be continued in 
order to examine the requested corrections prior to closing and approving an Order of 
Conditions.  
 
ENFORCEMENT      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  - 
2. EO -134 Crawford Street- Greco Alonso, Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority and MBTA - ENF Case 2019-3 
Initial administrative hearing on enforcement orders.  
 
===PAGE 4===
The Commission was briefed on the matter of the trespass onto abutting properties and work within the 
riverfront, buffer zone and no touch zones. Present were officials from the Fitchburg Redevelopment 
Authority ( Meagan Donoghue and Chairman Thomas Donnelly) , Holly Palmgren from MBTA and Francis 
Shannon III, ESQ. After discussion of the violations and the requirements of the local by -law it was 
decided the following time line would apply: 
 
By April 3, 2019 – identify engineer and, if any, other professionals. 
By May 1, 2019 – identify dates for existing conditions plan and project schedule. 
By June 30, 2019 – application in. 
By July 1, 2019 - fines start if application not in. 
 
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines ENF CASE 2019 -6 THIS CONTINUED FROM FEB 20, 2019 MM noted that the court 
meeting was set for March 27 in Fitchburg District Court and Town Counsel would be with him that day.  
EO - Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road ENF CASE 2019-1 and 2019 -2 THIS 
CONTINUED FROM FEB 20, 2019- MM noted DEP is starting enfocement and sis till awaiting updates. He 
also asked Brian Marchetti who was present about progress on a notice of Intent for the 2 adjacent lots. Mr. 
Marchetti indicated he just received the totality of the survey data and was processing it for planning for the 
upcoming filings. 
 
NON -155 -Reservoir Road- update THIS CONTINUED FROM FEB 20, 2019- Residents from the 
development were present. Mike Hughes, representing the applicants submitted a draft proposal, however, it 
still left a 10.6% alteration. MM indicated that it did not meet DEP performance standards and had himself 
spoken to DEP and they also confirmed that opinion. Brian Marchetti, presented a plan showing the removal 
and replanting of all mulcted areas noting that just the removal and replanting of the mulch would restore the 
numbers to the levels the commission had approved. The Commission urged the residents to continue to wor 
together and noted the commission would reconvene on this issue at the May 1, 2019 meeting at the Ritter 
Memorial Building on 960 Mass Ave. 
 
EO- Emerald Place Beach- update to be made for Spring 2019 THIS CONTINUED FROM FEB 20, 2019 
EO -Shady Point-beach erosion ENF CASE 2019-7 – no update –ongoing  THIS CONTINUED FROM 
FEB 20, 2019 
New Business -    Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994) RB noted that Brandon Kibbe had met with 
the Selectmen in executive session and that along the same lines as the purchase of the Lane property, a subcommittee is bein g 
formed.  
Old Business -  LSIC- Draft Order of Conditions Discussion-update ( if any) 
             Work at the Small Town Forest-updates ( if any) 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – Updates If any.- Gary 
will be appearing at the April 17, 2019 meeting. The habitat stewardship plan will be discussed by the commission at the March 
20 meeting. 
             Discussion and updates of rules and regulations (if any)  
Certificates of Compliance –  None to present 
Extension Permit –  None to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of February 6 and February 20, 2019 Action on the minutes were 
withheld until more members are present. 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
 ADA grant update – MM noted that he updated the state on the status of implementation and will be doing so 
monthly until compete- he expects construction to resume once the winter weather is gone.  
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 101 Pleasant Street – EO /fine update- see above 
 842R Chase Road – if any none 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory Hills general update (If any) 
===PAGE 5===
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is March 20, 2019 at 
7:00 PM in the Bilotta meeting romm 2nd floor at Town hall, 17 Main Street.   
 
The meeting was adjourned at 10:27 PM with a motion by BPO and a seconded by KJ with a unanimous vote to approve . 
 
 
All Documents referred to in the minutes are available in the Conservation Commission Office at 960 Mass Ave. 