===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
   NOTICE OF MEETING  
 960 Mass Ave Ritter 
April 3 2019 at 7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
MINUTES 
Call to Order 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment – KJ noted the eagle scout project on Hollis Road was complete and had singed off on the project 
paperwork. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM  MEETING COMMENCED AT 7 PM with Chairman Bursch presiding.  ALL 
MEMBERS PRESENT NOTE JR PARTICIAPTED REMOTLEY THRERFORE ALL VOTES ARE ROLLCALL.  
 
 
7 PM : 398 Page Street – Enforcement Conference case number ENF 2019-11 
 
 The property owner James White appeared before the commission. The Commission reviewed the enforcement action and the 
commission explained the agricultural exemption and the fact that he needs to file a Notice of Intent and referred him to a l ist of 
consulting agents experienced with conversions. The Owner noted there was a file with NRCS. TD noted he felt like it was an 
oversight and should be afforded time to hire a consultant and properly file the paperwork.The Chair explained the in order f or 
the NRCS exemption to apply a Notice of Intent still needed to be filed. Mr. White noted that he will hire a wetlands 
specialist/consulting agent. The Enforcement order was ratified by the commission by a motion of BP and a second by CL with 
unanimous vote to approve 
  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Request for a Determination by David Gerry for the replacement of a shed, the re -facing of an existing stone wall 
and the removal of a tree within the buffer zone of Hickory Hills Lake at 36 Peninsula Drive.  Application and supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial 
Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM on April 3, 2019 The public is invited to attend.  
 
RB reviewed the project with the applicant who was present to represent himself. CL noted this was a pretty interesting case as 
there was other projects that could be forthcoming. Floodplain was noted that would need to be compensated to make up for the  
===PAGE 2===
wall. The applicant explored the possibility of changing the wall entirely in place. RB reviewed the minimum required 
documentation of specification that may be required. A continuation was suggested. The Chair reviewed erosion protection with  
the applicant as well. The shed was examined, the square footage would not be allowed to be expanded and the commission 
examined potential orientations to comply with the by law. JR inquired about the boulder. The boulder can’t be easily removed 
and was proposed to stay in place. The Commission did not see a reason for the proposed tree to come down. Mr Gerry decided 
at that point in the hearing to re-think the project and requested a withdrawl. CC motioned for a positive determination. TD 
seconded and the commission voted a unanimous roll call vote to approve. 
 
(DEP 208-1158) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent  submitted by Joseph O’Brien for the construction of a single family home with 
garage within the buffer zone at 179 Island Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM 
on April 3, 2019 The public is invited to attend. 
 
The applicant requested a continuance to May 1, 2019. BP noted that the original approval i s not what is not on site.  CL 
noted that there was a violation and there was no documentation on file to produce a record of the violation. RB noted 
that MM found the plan filed with the other departments.  
 
 
 
 
(DEP 208-1150) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM on April 3, 2019 The public is invited 
to attend. .THIS IS A CONTINUED MEETING FROM March 20, 2019 – The public is invited to attend 
 
The applicant is requesting a continuance. The Commission after discussion is continuing to May 
1, 2019 by a motion of KJ and a second by BP and a unanimous roll call vote. 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  - 
2. EO-  4 Townsend Harbor Road – Enforcement Conference case number ENF 2019-12 The owner 
appeared before the commission . The chair reviewed the violation with him and noted that an 
engineer is required to file a Notice of Intent.  The Commission reviewed potential engineers in 
the area at the applicants request. The Commission gave a 60 day window by June 5 meeting. 
The order was ratified by a motion of CL and a second by KJ with a unanimous roll call vote to 
approve. The owner asked for the ability to remove trash from the site. The Chair indicated no 
issues.  
EO -134 Crawford Street- Greco Alonso, Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority and MBTA - ENF Case 2019-3 
Initial administrative hearing on enforcement orders. THIS CONTINUED FROM March 20 2019 
Updates on enforcement cases and status of timelines – The chair reviewed the   
 timelines with commission. 
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines ENF CASE 2019 -6 THIS CONTINUED FROM March 20 2019  
Violation(s) going to criminal disposition. 
EO - Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road ENF CASE 2019-1 and 2019 -2 THIS 
CONTINUED FROM March 20, 2019 – DEP is going to issue an order and MM will continue to update. 
NON -155 -Reservoir Road- update THIS CONTINUED FROM March 20, 2019- will be in at the May first 
meeting 
EO- Emerald Place Beach- update to be made for Spring 2019 THIS CONTINUED FROM March 20, 
2019- MM monitoring and will issue a report in a few weeks 
===PAGE 3===
EO -Shady Point-beach erosion ENF CASE 2019-7 – no update –ongoing  THIS CONTINUED FROM 
March 20, 2019 – still awaiting the owner to return from Florida 
New Business -   Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994) The BOS have selected a land acquisition 
committee to work on this issue. BP noted the makeup of some of the members of the committee. The Commission 
selected KJ as the representative with the Chair as an alternate backup.  The Commission approved the appointment by 
a motion of BP and a second by TD with a unanimous roll call vote.  
Old Business -  LSIC- Draft Order of Conditions Discussion- CL noted the cleared draft MM sent has a couple of 
changes CL added. He re-added the first 2 paragraphs. He added back the five year provision for a third party 
independent contractor.  Algae provisions were re-examined and the clarity thresholds for samplings were examined. 
The scope of what the third party would review every five years was examined. JR  raised the issue of what time line 
would be involved for reconciliation and would it be too prohibitive.  The Algae sampling points were examined. Joanna 
Bilotta is planning to ask for an extension for the Order to September 30, 2019 and will file a new Notice of Intent. She 
indicated they may appeal if they do not agree with the Order.   
             Work at the Small Town Forest-updates ( if any) 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – Update regarding   
            The Chair mentioned that the site meeting is set for April 13 at 123 Hollis Road.  
                             
             Discussion and updates of rules and regulations (if any) There will be a meeting for this ite on May 29, 
2019 time to be determined. 
Certificates of Compliance –  None to present 
Extension Permit –   
Minutes of previous meetings - Review and approval of March 20, 2019 BP moved to approve as amended CC seconded 
and the commission voted unanimously.  
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
 ADA grant update ( if any)- meeting with DEP and work commencing in May 
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 842R Chase Road – if any still in probate – BP was informed that it now may not require probate 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory Hills general update (If any) – MM to call John about testing with the lake being full 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- 
The Commission examined the violation at 63 Prospect Street and the documentation MM presented 
consisting of the issued Order and a statement from Mr. Mattson. RB noted the silt fence was back 
up and the area needs to be stabilized. TD noted that there were two trees in addition that the owner 
had marked to be removed. The Commission reviewed the letter form Mr. Mattson. TD proposed a 
mechanism, including having the tree company come to a future meeting.   
 
CL narrated a draft process regarding an education packet to new homeowners. He will meet with 
MM. 
RB informed the commission that the Selectman had requested a member of the commission be 
appointed to a newly formed economic development committee. The matter was tabled at this time. 
 
 Next meeting is April 17, 2019 at 7:00 PM in The Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, Town Hall, 17 Main 
Street   
 
 
 
The meeting ended at 10:07 PM with a motion to adjourn by CC and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote to approve.  – 
Documents mentioned in these minutes are at the commission office for viewing. 