===PAGE 1===
 
 
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
    Minutes  
960 Mass Ave- Ritter memorial Building 
June 5 2019 at 7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
Call to Order RB presiding at 7 PM all member present except CC. JR participating remotely ( ALL VOTES ON THIS 
DOCUMENT ARE BY ROLL CALL AS A RESULT) 
Announcements   KJ noted complaints about atv’s and dirt bikes on Robbs Hill and the lane property. 
Additional signage will be looked into. 
                                                                                           
Public Comment- Cl clarified the new OOC is not 8 pages the new one is 3 pages. Jack reviewed the  
wetland informational Brochures. He expressed concern about the anger displays at the last meeting 
resulting in the room needing to be cleared. 
 
Joanna Simeone noted that last meeting everyone came because of Mr. Lucks email  May 4 .She recited 
the quote from CL concerning coming to the meeting. The April 17 meeting that rescinded the original 
request the comment was made that there was a comment from JR that the BOS will need to possibly 
appoint a new LSIC she noted from 2006 until last year the LSIC spent 500K . JR responded that he 
responded to a comment that was made that Joanna threw up her hands and said “ I’m out of here” and 
the town may have to get a new agent. He stated he was caught by surprise by the comment and 
became confused. He attempted to clarify the he feels the 2 bodies should be able to come together. 
JoAnna noted that she does work for the lake not by choice , but by the absolute necessity. She noted a 
comment was made “ shame on you for bringing this mob” and did note that she feels the process wasn’t 
followed correctly.  
 
A new resident at 380 sunset lane is new to Lunenburg and trying to figure out what was going on and 
just wanted to know what was going on as a homeowner What was to be gained from not extending the 
order of conditions from 2015. RB stated none of the members made a motion to deny an extension and 
the summer activities will be the same. JR noted that we had sat with the LSIC and noted that there was 
initially more changes proposed however the changes were scaled back, he stated that he was sensitive 
to funding. TD noted that he was with a sixth month extension it wouldn’t affect this years activities and 
that there was new NOI coming . Joanna inquired about the 14 day advanced notice. That was to ensure 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
that if pre- treatment was going to be necessary, it could be a 2 week notice to get on the agenda and 
have time to review the report. JR had noted there would be no chance to challenge the data.  
  
Marylin Jewel 20 Sunset Lane-statedsome of the points that didnt need to be done and noted that she felt 
it was wrong. 
 
RB noted that it was not based on anything Mr. Luck and Mr. Rabbit decided, it was noted by the LSIC  
consultant had actually submitted the data on. He quoted directly from Solitudes testing. CL noted that on 
the issue of the treatment that there were points he suggested be examined. There were no changes to 
the treatment plan even after there was a discussion with Dominic Meringolo. He quoted a section of a 
report from the administrators office. He outlined the reasons for his removal initially from the LSIC.  
 
William Hicks – requested if we could move on as this has turned from the comment period to an issue 
that needs to be an agenda item for the future. RB noted that he was allowing it due to the complexties of 
the issue. 
 
Ashley Brawn- she feels the problem with the OOC is the process that was taken. She felt the 
commission took the right of appeal away. She disagrees with the third party review.  
 
Joanna Simeone wanted to know what the violations were.  
 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
7 PM : 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 Kathryn Adams has filed a request for a determination of applicability for removal of several trees 
within the buffer zone of Hickory Hills Lake at 39 Peninsula Drive. Application and supporting documents are available for re view 
at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on 
request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM 
on June 5, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Ms. Adams oriented the commission as to the work that needed to be performed and why  
Canopy examination by the commission revealed no anticipated impacts to the lake. The Commiss ion 
took roll call  and issued negative determination based on a motion from BP and a second from TD.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 Patrick Kincaid has filed a request for a determination of applicability for the demolition of a  shed 
and a rebuild of a new shed within the buffer zone of Lake Shirley at 61 Spring Street. Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 
Mass Ave at 7 PM on June 5, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 This was continued to the June 19 meeting at the request of the applicant by a motion of KJ and a second from TD.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 Susan Boggs Lightfoot has filed a request for a determination of applicability for the 
replacement/upgrade of a septic system within the buffer zone at 244 Pleasant Street. Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 
Mass Ave at 7 PM on June 5, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
This was continued to the June 19 meeting at the request of the applicant by a motion of KJ and a second from TD.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 Kenneth Trainque has filed a request for a determination of applicability for the modification t o an 
existing driveway at 320 Burrage Street within the 100 foot buffer zone. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 
PM on June 5, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Mr Trainque represented himself. It was noted that there was a wetland sectionand an addition that needs to be added to the 
plans. Maraynn Dipinto was reporting to the site to delineate the relevant wetland area.  
 
This was continued to the June 19 meeting at the request of the applicant by a motion of TD and a second from CL.  
 
(DEP 208-1159) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 James H White has filed a Notice of Intent for cutting and stumping of trees 
within the buffer zone for an agricultural conversion to a farm field at 389 Page Street. Application and supporting document s are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 
Mass Ave at 7 PM on June 5, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
Tom Chirstopher representing the applicant  recapped the previous meeting: 
He noted the well was installed addressing the commissions concern about a water source. 
 
Fertilization and soil amendments were addressed. He noted the soils report shows a number of soil 
amendments with commercial fertilizer. There is no plan for compost. He presented pics that show a 
fence to keep deer out.USDA material was presented.  
KJ asked if a 2 acre farm fails what happens with the property. Tom noted based on the observation 
every square inch of field is used to generate revenue using micro greens. They anticipate having a fair 
amount of product. RB noted they are still paying full residential taxes.  
  
Bill Hicks what would have happened if this was brought to the commission prior to instead of after the 
fact. Would the commission have said yes? RB noted he felt the project meets wetland protection 
standards. 
 
Motion of approval by TD with a second by Cl with a unanimous approval. Roll vote with call BP 
abstaining and JR abstaining with a final vote count of 4 yes and 2 abstention. BP mentioned he 
abstained for not catching up from the first hearing.  
 
(DEP 208-XXXX) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 John Harrison has filed a Notice of Intent for the reconstruction of a single family 
home within the buffer zone at 14 Sunset Ave. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM on June 5, 
2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
John Harrison represented himself – CL examined the foot print wanted to know why the 2.5 foot shift ? 
John noted it would interfere with parking on a very tight site and would interfer e with the sweep.  
Level of non conformance cant grow under by law according to CL. TD noted what are we really 
concerned about adding impervious and the plan shows there is an decrease of 100 square feet and the 
lot exiting is approvable and this is why we should approve and why we go on a case by case basis.  
JR appreciates the concern that Cl expressed he also understands TD’s view about additional parking 
and noted currently it’s a massive eye sore and we should jump to the opportunity and he was leanin g to 
allowing this change to occur.  
 
RB proposed to do language in the deed restricting further impervious surface.  
TD noted that there were infiltrator basins taking runoff away from the lake.  
  
Motion by TD to approve with special conditions: 
Wattles and silt fence limit of work. Expanded wattles 
Deed restriction against any additional impervious 
Construction schedule and add tree.  
The Conservation Administrator will sign off on diagram during construction.  
  
BP seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
===PAGE 4===
 
 
CL stated he is still concerned about non conformance but he will vote for it. Because we are gaining 
green space. RB still concerned about storm water system if it does in fact work.  
 
The final roll call vote was for all in favor. 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  - 
2. EO-  4 Townsend Harbor Road – Enforcement Conference case number ENF 2019-12 THIS 
CONTINUED FROM May 15, 2019- the NOI is in for the next meeting. 
3. EO-  63 Prospect St. – Enforcement Conference case number ENF 2019-11 THIS CONTINUED 
FROM May 15, 2019 – trees planted and it is looking wonderful. Ken Mattson is repairing the bioswale.  
EO -134 Crawford Street- Greco Alonso, Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority and MBTA - ENF Case 2019-3 
Initial administrative hearing on enforcement orders. THIS CONTINUED FROM  May 15, 2019 
                                     Updates on enforcement cases and status of timelines – MM noted that hannigan eng  
told him the will meet the time lines 
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines ENF CASE 2019 -6 THIS CONTINUED FROM May 15 2019 – 
fines have stopped due to bond compliance- no further action from landowner. 
EO - Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road ENF CASE 2019-1 and 2019 -2 THIS 
CONTINUED FROM May 15 2019 – no action 
NON -155 -Reservoir Road- update from all parties regarding remedial work THIS CONTINUED FROM 
May 15, 2019- Mike Hughes and Brian Marchetti a[[eared before the commission to review the demarcation. 
After some discussion it was decided the commission would entertain different means of demarcation. No 
vote was taken at this time. 
EO- Emerald Place Beach- update to be made for Spring 2019 THIS CONTINUED FROM May 15, 2019 
EO -Shady Point-beach erosion ENF CASE 2019-7 – no update –ongoing  THIS CONTINUED FROM 
May 15, 2019 
New Business -  
            New home owner notification policy discussion/feedback – The commission reviewed the handout. 
Old Business -  
           Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994) – it was noted negotiations were ongoing  
Discussion and updates of rules and regulations (if any)- BP reviewed Tyngsboroughs determination 
procedure form. It will be revised and meetings for hearing on the regs  are on schedule for 7/17 and 8/21  
Certificates of Compliance –  None to present 
Extension Permit –  none 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of  May 1, 15 ,29 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
 ADA grant update ( if any) – MM noted it will be completed for deadline 
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 842R Chase Road – if any 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory Hills general update (If any) 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is June 19, 2019 at the 
Bilotta meeting room 2nd floor 17 Main Street at 7 PM   
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:23 PM with TD motioning and KJ seconding 