===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
Jeffrey Vivano, associate member 
 
                 MINUTES 
December 4, 2019 
Ritter Memorial Lane Use Building 
960 Mass Ave, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
 
 
Call to Order Chairman Bursch called to order at 7 PM. Members absent were , Messers Rabbit, Vivano. 
Announcements  
Public Comment  Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
                                                                                   
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointment: Lunenburg Snow Riders Annual meeting with the conservation commission.- Tom Bertram is here to discuss the 
annual report. He noted that there was a 56 hour total of volunteer work with trail maintenance. The bridge of the woodruf f 
property was completed. RB asked about a bridge in the Cowdery that was expressed to be put in. Me. Bertram explained that 
the goal still is to harvest some of the infected Hemlock and mill it into board on site, however has not been completed. Par t of 
the difficulty was finding sufficient hemlock. RB asked about using the Red Pine put in by the former WPA prior to World War 2. 
Tom noted the hemlock is more durable. BP noted we could examine the plan for the small town forest  and we could examine 
any hemlock out there. RB noted that the commission has submitted 5 new applications for stewardship plans and that those 
areas can be evaluated as well. BP recounted a meeting with Mr. Bertram where the snow riders would be willing to help with the 
trails grant by transporting sign posts. Me Bertram presented a drawing of a trail on  the Saliba property the commission is 
currently acquiring. The trail comes in from Old Farm Road and goes to the old stage coach road. It then goes to the developed 
property on Howard Street to New West Townsend Road. He asked for permission to continue to use the trails. RB noted that 
the Saliba property is still under acquisition and could be revisited once that is completed. RB wanted to know if the riders had 
permission form the stage coach trail. It was established it was town land however, there was cooperation with abutters to it. Mr. 
Bertram noted that we may have a need to out in a parking lot area for the grant . He volunteered to be of assistance. Paula 
Bertram reviewed the details of the potential parking areas previously discussed but the land acquisition committee.  
===PAGE 2===
 
The Conservation Commission will be holding a hearing on a request for a Determination by the Hickory hills Landowners 
Association for the following scope of work: 100 Hemlock Drive (Hemlock Beach) ,Causeway South Row Road – within right of 
way adjacent to 10 Sandy Cove Road, 60 South Row Road, Cove Road – within right of way adjacent to 8 Cove Road and 14 
Cove Road, Hickory Hills Lake – access to site via 44 Hemlock Terrace,19 Island Road . The meeting will be held on December 
4, 2019 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. A pdf of this file is available by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to attend 
 
Paula Bertram appeared representing HHL. Doug Waters also appeared on behalf of HH.L Mrs. Bertram related the history of 
the plunge pool on Hemlock Drive. She noted there was still some erosion issues and was proposing to plant a rain garden 
adjacent to the plunge pool. She noted that part of the goal was to create a butterfly habitat. Mr Waters noted there  was also a 
goal to restore the common beach at Hemlock Drive. They are looking to reclaim about 20 yards of sand that will either be 
spread on the beach or taken away. They are looking to place large stone s at the sides of the beach to prevent erosion. He 
further reviewed another planting area situated to function both as a rain garden and erosion preventor. RB inquired if there was 
going to be any work past the swing set. It was noted that area was still wooded. BP noted the site inspection revealed 
dimensions of the work may have appeared larger due to the draw down. KJ asked for the goal of depth . It was answered five 
feet. TD asked if there was contingency for ensuring the sand was not native soils. Mr. Waters committed to confer with MM. 
Mrs. Bertram recalled the algae bloom in Little Hickory. She reviewed the area with DPW and noted the source of the drainage. 
DPW recommended digging out the area of the outfall from the drainage source and construct a plunge pool. Rb asked what was 
structure 512. Mrs Bertram noted it is the outfall pipe from the catch basin. RB asked how large of a pool did DPW 
recommended. Mrs Bertram noted a 12 foot by 5 foot depth to be determined. RB asked to have DPW give a depth so we can 
have it in the record. Mrs Bertram also noted that DPW recommended the bottom of the plunge pool be left natural with some rip 
rap on the sides. The lotus removal on Hemlock Terrace was discussed. Mrs. Bertram noted to date that the seed pods and 
stems have been removed. The goal is to go in with an excavator and hand tools and remove  from the rhizomes up. RB asked if 
there was boom curtain planned. Mrs. Bertram stated not as only the exposed areas during drawdown that will be removed. It 
was noted that the area was actually planted years ago and this is the only the second recorded infestation of American lotus in 
the commonwealth. The South Row Road erosion protection proposal has not been firmed up at this point in time. The HHL 
Consultant recommended a diversion trench to a plunge pool. The location proposed is between lots 73 and 74. Mr Waters 
reviewed maintenance of the main beach the proposal was to replace sand on the beac h. The sand area proposed is 10 feet 
above the high water mark with a thin coat. KJ noted the topo of the area was flat. RB ask ed what the condition of the area was 
now. It was noted it was rock and sand. Mark Bursch stated he feels the renovation is a good idea and some added sand is 
called for as what is also done in the town beach. BP noted that if you put only an inch of sand it may not be sufficient for  
recreation use by small children so he would not be opposed to the adding a thicker layer of sand. He and KJ noted it was a 
good distance away from the lake. Mark Bursch noted the majority of erosion comes form another side. The commission 
expressed no issues with 20 yards of sand.  
 
A motion for a negative determination with the added depths of the plunge pools from DPW and a 30 foot instead of a 20 foot 
rain garden by KJ with a  second by CL and a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
 
The Conservation Commission will be holding a hearing on a request for a Determination by Peg Gorman of 66 Horizon Island 
Road for the replacement of a collapsed retaining wall. The meeting will be held in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 
Mass Ave at 7 PM. A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to attend 
 
Brett Ramsden represented the applicant. He provided the commission with a hand drawn plan showing the replacement of the 
existing wall. He noted the majority of the wall is collapsed. He indicated the existing will be removed, a crushed stone foundation 
will be placed in the current line. Some earth will be excavated to allow for an wider wall that will not come out into the lake a ny 
further and the remaining dimensions will be the same as existing. RE recounted the site visit and noted the poor condition of the 
current wall which needs replacing. KJ examined pictures of the existing conditions . It was noted there would be no vegetati on 
removal required to complete this project. KJ asked if the wooden retaining wall would be left in place. The answer was yes. RB 
requested a profile and a cross sectional detail added to the file. RB asked for erosion protection to be placed in. CL examined 
the proposed height and wall slope. Cl also asked if the surface behind the wall would be the same. The answer was yes. TD 
noted that there should be a note requiring like for like replanting.  
 
The commission continued the hearing by a motion of TD and a second by CC to the 18th of December at 7 PM at the Bilotta 
meeting room to allow for completed application and detail work. The vote to approve was unanimous. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40, and Lunenburg Wetland Bylaw section 335 , David 
Gerry has filed a Notice of Intent for an addition with a deck to a single family home at 36 Peninsula Drive. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment.. The meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. 
A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to attend 
 
Steve Marsden represented the applicant and recounted the history of the previous file by Mr Gerry. The new proposal is for a 
deck with the removal of the existing concrete stairs and apron. The new material will be all wood and sono tubes will be dug  by 
hand . The 8 foot by 20 foot addition will have a foundation will have no vegetation required to be removed. RB reviewed the 
existing square footage of removed with one 16 square foot section remaining to access the crawl space for a total of 64 square 
feet of impervious. RB asked about the work within the 50 foot zone. Mr. Marsden noted the deck is off the ground and will not be 
impervious. RB also examined the need to add the extra stairs. Mr. Marsden had no issue with removing the extra stairs. The 
erosion protection will be wattles in the front of the house and the plans will be amended. KJ expressed the plan as drawn was 
fine and the erosion protection can be hand drawn in. TD and BP expressed agreement. CL noted that the commission was 
treating wooden decks as pervious. There was no public comment.  KJ moved to approve the Notice of Intent with the hand 
markings for erosion protection and the section of walkway abandoned. BP seconded  and the commission approved. Cl noted 
that there was an offset to the structure portion of the 50 foot no structure zone due to it being pervious. The motion was 
unanimously. 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40,and Lunenburg Wetland Bylaw section 335 , Steven 
Powell of 155 Reservoir Road Realty Trust has filed a Notice of Intent for the Construction of a common driveway crossing for 2 
single family lots at 41&47 Reservoir Road.. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservatio n 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. The meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter 
Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The 
public is invited to attend 
 
Brian Marchetti represented the applicant and reviewed the plan changes with respect to the replication area and the culvert 
specifications. The culvert installation and the wetland replication location was examined. The timing of the construction of the 
crossing was examined. BP noted that he had no objection to the timing being during low water level. TD requested cross 
sectional details  on the culvert, diversion techniques for the stream, footings details and language for dewatering as well as the 
limits of excavation. The commission continued to the December 18 th meeting at 7 PM at the Bilotta meeting room with a motion 
by TD and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40,and Lunenburg Wetland Bylaw section 335 , Myles 
Jenkin has filed a Notice of Intent for the repairing of 3 retaining walls and replacement of steps at 72 Hemlock Drive. Application 
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. The meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. 
A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to attend 
  
Brett Ramsden represented the applicant. He presented the commission with updated drawings. He detailed the changes in the 
drawing of the upper wall. He outlined the details of the measurements from the house to the wall. He examined the details on 
the proposed grading refinements with the commission. RB examined the amount the applicant wished to come out in front of the 
old wall and it was stated it was 2 feet. RB stated reservations with grandfathering a the wall that was proposed in the water. He 
feels that the wall even if it was formerly there was an abandoned use. TD stated based on his observations of the site the 
foundation of the wall are still in place and as long as the measurements matches he has no issue with it. He also expressed 
some filling and grading details should be added to the plans. BP recalled the previous site walk and noted that some of the 
commissioners expressed satisfaction of the pre-existing wall and some did not. He feels comfortable with the application as 
presented. RB stated in his mind this situation is different as the remnants are not conclusive enough to the pre-existence and 
that there was another wall built in its place that is currently there now. He expressed reservations allowing a wall within an area 
that could be an additional intrusion into the lake. CL showed some pictures to the commission and feels that there is no 
evidence of a foundation for a former wall. TD noted that based on his experience as a professional engineer specializing in this 
type of issue and noted that he clearly saw level stones denoting a foundation of a wall. Based on his inspection he feels that he 
would be pulling material (stone) out of the wetland that had fallen in. Cl examined the proposed wall places with Mr Ramsden. 
KJ noted that if the wall was not built then the steps could not be built. RB repeated his concerns about a grandfathered wall. KJ 
===PAGE 4===
examined the high water mark and determined that the reconstruction of the old wall would not displace the high water mark. KJ 
expressed that he is comfortable stating there is a wall there. KJ noted that this is a case by case basis. BP feels that we do this 
on a case by case basis and we do not want to be too rigid. RB feels that the wall in question was abandoned and we should be 
setting a precedent. KJ asked if there was a negative effect on the resource area. After some discussion he proposed leaving the 
rubble in front of the wall. After discussion it was noted that the wall is boulders with concrete in between the stones. TD feels 
that a cross sectional detail or a profile of the wall should be enclosed with the filing.  
 
CL expressed he should have details on the plans should be from an engineer. BP feels this project is an improvement. He 
pointed out the reduction in slope steepness and some reduction in impervious. MM noted the existing conditions plan by 
Ducharme and Dillis. TD stated we should add to that plan showing the heights, limits of work and cross sectional details as well 
as erosion protection and a construction schedule/ sequence. BP noted he asked at the last hearing when he would be able to 
do the work. He expressed concern of we have a weather event for the meeting on the 18th and it was cancelled another meeting 
wont be placed until the 15th of January. RB responded that this was filed in November and considering the time of year and the 
scope proposed, trying to expediate should not be a factor or in the best interests of the commission time line. BP asked if we 
could have a draft order written up. The commission had no issue with doing that. CL asked for a straw poll on the grandfathering 
of the wall. KJ, TD, CC, BP stated they were in favor of grand fathering ,RB and CL opposed the idea. TD and Mr Ramsden 
discussed the details he wanted. There was no public comment. 
 
 The commission continued to the December 18th meeting at 7 PM at the Bilotta meeting room with a motion by  KJ and a 
second by TD with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting on a request for a determination by Micke Dutton for the trimming and some 
removal of Brush at 54 Pine Acres Dr. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. The meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter 
Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The 
public is invited to attend 
 
The commission continued to the December 18th meeting at 7 PM at the Bilotta meeting room with a motion by BP and a second 
by TD with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING :Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetland Regulations section 335 
Susanne Delisle  has filed a Request for a determination at 235 Island Road for Removal of six trees  addition of understory 
plantings and removal of  hazardous standing deadwood,  removal of 500 ft.² of impervious surface, the replacement of 220 ft.² 
of impervious surface, the remainder to be replaced with the pervious surface. The replacement of failing steps and repair of 
walkway and the installation of a swimming pool within the buffer zone of a wetland resource area. Application and supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. The 
meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. A pdf of this file is 
available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to attend 
 
RB recused himself from the meeting as Mark Bursch is the applicants representative. Vice Chair Dwyer presided. He showed 
the commission the scaled plan with the 30 and 50 and 100 foot zones. KJ examined the location of the swimming pool and 
noted that there would be no trees to be taken down for it. The tree removal was examined that it there was sufficient canopy  
remaining. KJ moved to approve the plans as presented with a negative determination. CC seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously to approve.   
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40  and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By -law ( 
Wetland Bylaw) DPW has filed a Notice of Intent for the replacement of Culverts at Sunset Lane and Northfield Road. Application 
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. The meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. 
A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to attend 
 
===PAGE 5===
The commission continued to the December 18th meeting at 7 PM at the Bilotta meeting room with a motion by BP and a second 
by CC with a unanimous vote to approve. During the motion/discussion it was requested that Matt follow up with DPW to confirm 
action was ongoing to get the requested engineering report on the sizing of the Northfield culvert. 
 
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the repla cement of an existing retaining 
wall at 51 Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office 
by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. The meeting will be held on December 4, 2019 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use 
Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. A pdf of this file is available by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. The public is invited to 
attend 
 
 
The commission continued to the December 18th meeting at 7 PM at the Bilotta meeting room with a motion by CC and a second 
by BP with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
 
1. EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019-16 Administrative Hearing Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg 
Town Manager  was present representing the town. RB noted the history of the issuance of the 2 enforcement 
orders. The Town Manager requested the enforcement order be rescinded as the town cannot take  itself to court. 
She noted the town is going to take on the investigation. She will be working with MM and the police department 
on an investigation by the Board of Selectmen. TD asked if there was a timeline and there was none established 
as of yet. KJ noted that it was also an enforcement order issued against the town on the Pleasant Street site. RB 
pointed out that the law would require remediation by some party. BP noted he has no trouble lifting the order . He 
pointed out the town has started an official investigation. CL stated that the town could perhaps use the 
enforcement order as leverage. TD moved to rescind the enforcement order , however keep it under old business. 
The motion was defeated by a vote of TD and BP approving and CC,CL, RB, and KJ against.  
2. EO-164 Page Street – Administrative Hearing -MM recommend a one time 100 dollar fine for failure to appear 
by a motion of BP and a second of KJ with a unanimous vote to approve. CL suggested that another request to 
attend the next meeting also be sent to the owner. 
3. EO- 88 Mass Ave- Maki Enterprises – commencement of action- Alan Maki appeared on his behalf and 
brought in pictures and a plan of land showing the work he had done and his intentions to clean up the property 
which had fallen in disrepair. RB examined the property lines and potential future plans. It was determined that an 
RDA would suffice. The RDA is to be filed by May 1, 2020. TD recommended erosion protection around the pile of 
gravel or moving the pile. The Commission voted to continue the matter until May 1, 2020 with a motion from KJ 
and a second by TD with a unanimous vote to approve. 
4. EO- Emerald Place Beach- update (to be made in the spring of 2020)  
 
New Business -   61 A disposition of land- 250 Howard Street- RB noted that this previous chapter 61 A release 
request did not perc and as such the sale fell through and is remaining in 61 A. He will send a letter to the owner to see 
if there was a desire to donate the land. 
 
LSIC- emergency permit- CL recused himself with the following public statement: “I am recusing myself from the 
discussion and vote on the LSIC request to continue the drawdown past December 1st.  
I want to make it clear that this matter differs from the other LSIC matters that have recently come before the 
Commission for which I have been allowed to participate by a vote of the BOS. In this case, as oppo sed to those, 
this decision, in my opinion could directly and immediately have a financial impact on me and is reasonably 
foreseeable.  
I have made a commitment to the BOS that if such a matter arose, that I would recuse myself and I feel this situation 
falls into that category and am hereby recusing myself in this specific instance and on this specific matter. ” 
===PAGE 6===
 
 RB recounted the conditions for allowing the draw down to go to December 31, 2019 and the drawdown history from the 
previous year and that DEP in conversation gave the condition that there not be ice on a majority of the lake. TD asked Steve 
Bean, LSIC Director and representative, if the lake was frozen? The answer was the majority was open. TD requested that DEP 
and Shirley be in agreement. RB noted that DEP has already given guidance. BP moved to approve the Emergency Certification 
CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve.  
 
Old Business - Signatures for PARC GRANT Heather Lemieux Town Manager appeared before the commission for the 
signing of the grant. She presented the commission with the signature page previously approved.  
                   Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994)- updates – MM presented the commission with 
the approval letter for the use of the trust funds for payment of the appraisal.  
   
Certificates of Compliance –         
Extension Permit –Minutes of previous meetings - review of November 20, 2019 minutes- Minutes were approved by a 
motion of BP moved to approve the minutes. JK seconded and the commission vote unanimously. 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –MM noted proposed changes in DEP regulations regarding 
issuing Orders of Conditions versus DEP rights to intervene.  
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (Plowing of Open space parking areas- Hollis 
Road) MM asked if the commission would like to have the area plowed open the commission decided it was 
not efficient to do so and leave it as is. 
 Hollis Road- KJ noted there was an entity that wanted to donate to the Hawes account. He will check with 
Karen and work with Bob. 
 Hickory Hills general updates  
 Hickory Hills /Lake Shirley- drawdown updates and gate operation for storm event on 11/24/19 MM informed 
the commission that we had a rain event that required the gate to be opened. 
 Update on hunting Signage- MM noted the actual signage arrived in the office shortly before the holiday and 
will work with DPW to install. He is reviewing the budget to allow for purchasing the “NO ATV” signs. 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is December 18, 2019 at 
the Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 17 Main Street at 7 PM   
 
The meeting was adjourned at 10:35 PM with a motion of BP and a second by KJ with a 
unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Documents referred to in the minutes are on file at the commission office.  