===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
Jeffrey Vivano, associate member 
 
             MINUTES  
February 5, 2020 
960 Mass Ave 
7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
 
Call to Order TD called the meeting to order at 7 PM with TD, BP, CC , KJ and JR in attendance  
Announcements BP noted he was appointed to the steering committee at the Mass Trails Coalition.  
Public Comment  Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
                                                                                   
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointments :72  Hemlock- request for a field change ( Continued) The applicant did not show and the matter was 
continued to the next regular meeting 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, John Kutarnia has filed a 
request for a determination of applicability for the replacement of Steps at 192 Townsend Harbor Road. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the 
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave February 5, 2020 at 7 PM. The publi c is invited to attend. 
 
Mr. Katurnia appeared at the meeting to represent himself. Mr. Katurnia explained the project and the circumstances that 
required him to appear before the commission. TD noted the site inspection on 2/1/2020 and expressed no concer n. JR 
expressed concern that safety railings may be in order. Mr. Katurnia stated that railings would require him to go into the ea rthen 
section of the hickory hills dam. John Fortune of 50 Hemlock Drive and Hickory Hills Dam operator outlined the phase 1 
inspection with his engineer and he also inspected the steps and the engineer recommend that the stairs be left in place. He 
agreed with the assessment Mr Katrunia made regarding the installation of railings. BP inquired how many docks along the dam.  
Mr Fortune noted it is 3 and as the houses are sold they will be removed and subsequent owners will not be able to use the 
current areas. They are free standing Docks. Katey Adams 39 Peninsula Drive spoke to concerns about access to the dam. She 
===PAGE 2===
reiterated the point Mr. Fortune had made regarding grandfathering. A motion was made for a negative determination by BP and 
a second by JK with a unanimous vote to approve. 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as 
listed in chapter 239, Bill & June Hudson have filed a Notice of Intent for the replacement of a septic and the cutting and 
replanting of trees within the 100 foot buffer zone at 90 Hemlock Drive. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building on February 5, 
2020 at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Bill and June Hudson were present to represent themselves. MaryAnn Di pinto was also present to represen t the Hudsons. Mrs. 
Hudson sowed the plans and outlined the varieties. KJ explained the results of the site visit with himself, CL and Matt Marro . Mrs. 
Hudson explained which trees were marked that were dead and were going to be removed. She outlined the n umber of trees to 
be planted versus removed. KJ noted the site walk resulted in confirmation as to what was dead and what was viable and he 
also noted that in his opinion, there are way too many trees on the property, which is what is causing the other tre es to die and 
the property was heavily populated due to lack of maintenance. He also noted that with the remaining the majority of the shad ing 
would remain. TD reviewed where new lawn versus trees would be established. Ms. DiPinto noted that the areas of r e-planting 
were picked up by a surveyor. It was noted the garage originally on the submission was withdrawn from consideration by the 
applicant. John Fortune 50 Hemlock Drive spoke in favor of the project as proposed.  A motion was made to approve an Order of 
Conditions by BP and seconded by CC with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as 
listed in chapter 239, Dan & Jean Proctor have filed a Notice of Intent for the removal of earth and storm water management  
within the 100 foot buffer zone at 1325 Mass Ave. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, at the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building on February 5, 2020 at 7 PM. The public is invited to 
attend. 
 
Frank McParland and Daniel Proctor appeared on behalf of the applicant. Mr McPartland outlined the proposal and outlined the 
proposed erosion control. He noted to the commission where the loom would be screened. He noted that the overall approach 
with storm water is met. He reviewed the report from Graves Engineering that was provided to the planning board.  He reviewed 
the operation and maintenance manual with the commission. Mark Rzeznickiewicz of 69 Townsend Harbor Road he expressed 
concerns about how the development would affect his septic system and expressed concerns about the removal of vegetation 
and where would the storm water wind up. Mr. McPartland explained the storm water design principle used.  JR examined the 
slopes with Mr.  McPartland who indicated a 3 to 1 slope is less likely to erode. Bonnie Rzeznickiewicz expressed concerns 
about aggravation of flooding. She also pointed out where she has observed a wildlife corridor that is within the area. TD no ted 
that according to the plan, there may be a reduction of runoff to her property. Pamela Anzaldi of 70 Townsend Harbor Road, 
questioned the abutter notification process. TD explained the notification process. She asked if the Commission works in 
conjunction with the planning board. TD explained the jurisdiction and limits of commission authority. She questions the location 
of 20 feet being used as a setback. She urged the commission to conduct a site inspection. She expressed concerns about the 
length of time to the project.TD noted that there would be another site visit on Saturday February 15, 2020 as the meeting would 
be continued due to the lack of a DEP number. Clifford Smith of 70 Townsend Harbor Road He also examined the drainage and 
the erosion protection. He reviewed the water flow and noted that the driveway receives runoff from the applicants property and 
noted he was told he would need to resolve a trench. TD noted that the proposal would likely reduce runoff to his driveway.BP  
examined the contours on the local GIS and noted that the contours indicated TD was correct in his assessment. Mr. McPartland 
examined the plan with Mr. Smith and illustrated where the post development runoff would travel. Mr. Smith inquired about 
added vegetated screening and noted that nothing was there. Katey Adams of 39 Peninsula Drive felt that the cross section, if 
available would show a different picture. Ms. Adams noted that it is currently agricultural land for a very long period and t hat it 
was not farmed. BP noted that farmed land may have traces of herbicide and pesticide if farmed and felt that as it was pasture 
plan it would not have those attributes. Ms. Adams noted that the history of the horse farm may have a history of high nitrogen 
and phosphorus. Mr. McPartland noted the differences in rate of application of nutrients and chemical treatments on farms. He 
noted the storm water management would remove a great amount of nutrients. Ms Adams brought up the critical area of 
environmental concerns. MM noted that as there is no proposed wetland alteration proposed the ACEC standards would not be 
applicable to this file.KJ noted that the he checked the maps and that there was significant development alre ady in zone II . Ms. 
Adams felt that the plan wasn’t complete enough to obtain an actual picture of the impacts.TD noted that it was a large amoun t of 
alteration. Ms. Adams outlined the aquifer protection by-law and stated the need to review it further. Ms. Adams expressed 
===PAGE 3===
concerns that the site may not be able to be adequately managed in the event of a large storm event and expressed concern 
over impacts to the wetlands and adjacent lands. TD stated that he realizes this is a large project, however he feels that the 
engineer did a wonderful job of planning comprehensively. Dan Proctor noted the history of how he acquired the land. He stated 
that being in the septic system business that he could state confidently the proposed work would have no effect. Mr Pr octor also 
stated he would leave as many trees on the land as they could. KJ after examining the maps noted that the lot was actually in the 
zone III and not the zone II. Mrs. Rzeznickiewicz inquired as to who would make the final decision. The Commission and the 
applicant’s representative reviewed the regulatory boards that would permit the activities in total.  A site visit was planned for Feb. 
15th and the applicant agreed with interested neighbors participating. PB made a final statement clarifying the L CC’s authority 
regarding the NOI. Abutters re-iterated their concerns regarding the possible resulting impact to nearby wetlands.  
 
The Commission continued the hearing to February 19, 2020 at 7 PM in Town Hall second Floor at 7 PM with a site visit on 
February 15, 2020 by a motion of KJ with a second by CC and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40  and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By-law ( 
Wetland Bylaw) DPW has filed a Notice of Intent for the replacement of Culverts at Sunset Lane and Northfield Road. Applicati on 
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission offi ce by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, at the Ritter Memorial Land Use 
Building on February 5, 2020 at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend. 
 
 
MM noted the engineering company is adjusting the submitted plans to account for the wildlife crossing at Northfield Road. It  was 
continued by a motion of KJ and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve.  Continued to February 19, 2020 at 7 PM in 
Town Hall second Floor.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retai ning 
wall at 51 Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office 
by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
at the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building on February 5, 2020 at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend.  
 
The meeting was continued to February 19,2020, at 7 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by CC and a unanimous vote to 
approve. 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
 
1. EO-164 Page Street – Continued actions- container to be removed by spring, deadline to be 
documented to owner 
2. EO- Emerald Place Beach- update (to be made in the spring of 2020)  
3. EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) MM noted the town was still 
contemplating the approach. 
4. 179/183 Island Road – MM noted that the limits of the order regarding vegetation clearing, 
grading and sand within the lake bed has been exceeded and recommended that an 
enforcement order be ratified by the commission and issued. The order was ratified by a motion 
of BP and a second by JR with a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
New Business -   Site Walk for Gilchrest Street Property for trail access – MM is going to contact the owner for a site  
                              walk date. 
               Gray Gouldrup, bird habitat proposed draft Stewardship Plan MM is meeting with Gary and will report 
  Back to the firm date 
           
             Approval of Funds for Tax Bill Inserts –MM reported that the purchase order was approved and is   
             ready to go. He also noted that he spoke to the town administrator who indicated approval of the  
             outreach effort to residents 
===PAGE 4===
               
             
 
           Open Space parcels (non conservation) discussion – BP reviewed parcels of land currently not under  
           control of the conservation commission that had the attributes the commission looks for in open space. He    
           outlined the procedure of working with the board of selectmen. The Commission reviewed each parcel and  
           decided to have a delegation of one or two commission members approach the board of selectmen.  There was    
           some question regarding the Fairview property that the Town purchased in 1999 for $700. Questions also arose    
           regarding: 225 Pleasant St, West St,, 0 Shirley (stump cove on Lake Shirley) and adjacent parcels. Any transfer  
           of parcels will require approval at Town Meeting. Town council did not see an issue for parcels with “flawed”   
           titles.           Motion to coordinate with Open Space Committee to discuss transfer of 111 Mulpus, 970 New West  
           Townsend     
           Rd., 104 Fairview, 408 Lancaster Ave., 671 West St., 225 Pleasant St. made by BP seconded by  
          CC passed  
          with a unanimous vote of the commission 
 
            
                            Revisions of Land Use Regulations – MM noted that there was ambiguity on the regulations regarding  
                            hunting and recommended the commission convene a meeting on the March 18 meeting to star t a  
                            review of the language of the regulations. BP reported that Town Council advised him that the  
                            regulations were not ambiguous and that the BOS does not have the authority to override LCC land use  
                            regulations. Commission agreed that further review and discussion of the regulations needs to happen.  
                            MM will add to agenda for future meeting. 
 
Old Business – Update on trails grant – status of contracts and ideas for setting up oversite group was presented by BP 
                    Land acquisition proposal, Saliba, Northfield Road ( # 994)- updates ( If any) Conservation  
                           Restriction-  
                           the CR language was settled between Town Counsel and Counsel Bowen and was accepted by the  
                           Commission by a motion of KJ and a second by BP. 
            Open meeting law resolution – MM and TD reported on the form and procedure for the remediation of 
                           The open meeting law violation Including OML training and certification by all LCC members. 
   
Certificates of Compliance Mattson 113 Young’s Road Lot 4 DEP 208-1055 (Continued) Hickory Hills DEP 208-1128 
remediation of the dam. NJLJ Gas Station, Electric Ave DEP 208-1156   The Commission approved the certificates of 
compliance by a motion of BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote approving the motion.  
Extension Permit –Brockelman Perrins Pond and 121 Peninsula Drive – The Commission continued as they wanted to 
see the original order to refresh their recollection. 
 
Minutes of previous meetings - review of January 15, 2020 minutes – review of May 29, 2019 meeting minutes – The 
minutes of the January 15 minutes was approved by a motion of BP and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to 
approve. 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items: 
 On line permit application demonstration – MM demonstrated the online permitting software for residents to 
file applications under local by law and pay fees over their computers.  
 322 flat hill road ch 61 a release request to be taken up at a future meeting.  
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  Winter trails 
 Hickory Hills general updates  
 Hickory Hills /Lake Shirley- drawdown updates  
 Update on hunting Signage 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is February 19 2020 at 
the Bilotta Meeting Room 2nd Floor, 17 Main Street at 7 PM  
 
The meeting was adjourned at 9:50 PM by a motion of BP and a second by CC and a unanimous vote of the commission   