===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Todd Dwyer Conservation Administrator 
 
MINUTES 
June 3 2020  
7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is 
being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel at a future time. ( no live 
broadcast ) 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of 
the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This 
meeting will be be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: 
Description:  
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89622865981 
 
Meeting ID: 896 2286 5981 
 
One tap mobile 
 
888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 896 2286 5981 
 
To Participate Remotely: Participants may use cell phones, tablet and computers with audio and 
video capabilities as they have been tested. If you have trouble accessing or have general questions 
you can email during the meeting to lcc@lunenburgonline.com. Emails containing questions or 
comments that are to be read aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name address 
and phone number. 
 
 
 
 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to 
speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to 
speak.
===PAGE 2===
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as 
a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the 
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
– BP has 
thanked both RB 
and TD for their 
work as chair 
and vice chair. 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
  Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
called to order by BP at 7 PM. KJ is not 
present. It is noted as meeting is on ZOOM all 
votes were taken by roll call only.  
JR asked if there was any way the 
commission could allow Maryann Doherty to 
install a dock to replace the other dock she 
just lost as it was destroyed. She would file a 
retroactive RDA. After discussion the 
commission asked for an RDA for a future 
meeting with the applicant is proceeding on 
the RDA.  
 
  Appointments:  
1. 72 Hemlock – map with tree plantings- MM noted the owner is working on the plans as noted on June 2, 
however they are both Doctors and have been busy with medical practice issues and will have it in for the 
Next meeting. 
   
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By -law ( Wetland Bylaw) Roberts Evens  has filed an 
amended  Notice of Intent for the addition of stone steps and a patio within the buffer zone at 4 Sunset Lane. On June 3, 2020  
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 
431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com. Zoom meeting 
information will be posted on the agenda published June 1, 2020 
 
Nick Pauling from GPR represented the applicant. He outlined for the commission the existing order of 
conditions and what the amendment was requested for. The amendment requests were reviewed. He 
described the current condition of the site. The patio will be permeable. CL reviewed the potential grading 
with Nick. CL asked if the post construction resource area will move the 30 feet. Nick noted that the 
resource area will not move. He reviewed the water elevation. CL asked inf the flood plain would be 
maintained. Mr Pauling stated yes. JR reviewed the erosion control. RB motion to approve the amended 
NOI. CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
 
CONTINUED FROM THE PREVIOUS Meeting:: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regu lations as 
listed in chapter 239, Mike Guliani has filed a request for a determination of applicability for the construction of a patio and a dock at 
3 Willderwood. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commissio n office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting 
will take place remotely on Zoom on June 3, 2020. Please email for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda 
information to be posted June 1, 2020 
 
Michael Guiliani appeared on his own behalf. He reviewed the adjusted plan with the commission. A motion was made by BP to 
issue a negative determination, JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve the determination.  
===PAGE 3===
 
CONTUINED FROM THE PREVIOUS MEETIING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations 
as listed in chapter 239, Elaine Stevenson has filed a request for a determination of applicability for the replacement of a septic 
system at 47 Charlton  Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office 
by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting will take place remotely on Zoom on June 3, 2020. Please email for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the 
agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020 
 
Dan Proctor appeared on behalf of the applicant. He reviewed the septic system and the Board of health approval. RB asked if the 
tanks were in the same location. Mr. Proctor stated yes. RB reviewed the location of the prior system. The remainder of the 
commission had no question. Motion was made to approve a negative determination by RB with a second by TD. The motion was 
approved unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Dan Gardner has filed a 
request for a determination of applicability for the status of a stream at 101 Pleasant Street. Application and supporting documents 
are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 3, 2020. Please 
email for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1 2020.  
 
Paul Grazewicz appeared for the applicant. He presented photos that is alleged to show no flow for 4 days. RB noted the pictures 
show flow and stream stats shows it has sufficient water shed. He noted that the stream had been rebuilt and that there is a created 
impediment. He also noted that there was construction of the Gulf station upstream which had the stream controlled during 
stormwater installation resulting in the natural impediment. TD voiced agreement. Cl also voiced agreement. JR also voice 
agreement.  
 
Andrea Laford agreed with the conservation members and asked what are the implications of perennial versus intermittent streams. 
It was noted that jurisdictional areas and the limits of 10 percent of the land for development would apply.  
 
MM noted flows in the photos. TD made a motion for a positive determination and RB seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Ken Matson has filed a 
Notice of Intent for the construction of a single family home at 63 Cross Road Application and supporting documents are avail able 
for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an 
option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 3, 2020. Please email for 
zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020  
 
Anthony Cleaves represented the applicant. Mr Cleaves reviewed the plan and the Notice of Intent with the Conservation 
Commission. TD asked how the applicant intended to grade the site with respect to removal of trees versusu remaining. Mr. 
Cleaves noted the erosion control was the limit of work and the trees would only be removed up to then. There may be some tre es 
save along the lot line if possible depending on grading. JR asked about demarcation, which was agreed to. RB asked if the 
frontage grading was humped up to keep drainage from running off the driveway. Mr. Cleaves noted it was so as RB noted so the  
vegetation would receive the flow. RB asked if the driveway grading could be adjusted to sheet flow off of the sides instead of 
allowing it to increase on the down hill slope. Mr. Cleaves reviewed the cross pitch he currently has and noted he can add a more 
distinct cross pitch. Charles Kimball, Son in Law to Marylin McMillan who confirmed that Charles was represented. Mr Kimball noted 
it was his opinion the brook going through the property was perennial. Mr Kimball and Mrs McMillan discussed the culvert 
construction history. Keith Kimball requested that the commission have some type of report regarding the stream status. He noted 
his historical anecdotal flows of the stream. MM noted the stream was not on the USGS map and noted that according to regulation 
the commission would have to prove the area is perennial and that the commission cannot have the applicant change the status of 
the unmapped stream. David Riley noted that the stream doesn’t stop flowing. RB asked when the lot was subdivided and it was 
noted that it was recent. JR wanted to conduct another site visit based on the abutters representations. TD asked if the abutters 
filed an RDA if they could get a stream ruling. MM noted that it was possible however the caveat to that was they would have to 
submit technical evidence as anecdotal was not acceptable under regulation. CL agreed that a site visit was necessary,  BP asked 
MM what impact would the perennial stream designation have on the plans. MM noted that the normal 10 percent thresholds under 
the rivers act would apply. Mr Cleaves noted that the lot was 3.8 acres in size and the disturbance proposed would be well under 10 
percent, not triggering a thresholds. He further noted that the GIS database doesn’t show the stream or any other designation of 
extra protection. Keith Kimball noted that even though it was t on the map, the culverts show a lot of flow  AND 75% of the lot was 
wetlands. He offered to research whatever funding was needed to determine if the stream was intermittent or perennial. He noted 
as of 1991 the conservation commission required the culvert. Mr Cleaves noted a larger culvert may have been required to meet 
stream crossing standards and not due to stream status as intermittent versus perennial. BP asked MM if a site walk would change 
anything. MM noted the commission would have to provide actual hard evidence. CL asked Mr. Cleaves with the 21,000 square fee t 
===PAGE 4===
of disturbance was within the riverfront. Mr Cleaves noted that 14,000 was within the buffer zone and 2500 square feet was within 
the 50 foot. He noted that the 30 and 50 foot buffer zones provide good protection. RB echoed the concerns of Jack and Carl a nd 
felt the stream should be more closely examined. Mr Kimball noted the stream comes from lake Whalom, through the woodruff 
property and into the cattacoonemaug brook. Dave Passios applauded the commission for taking the time to examine the abutters 
concern. JR noted that we should take some data and go to DEP for their input. TD noted that the watershed of 1 square mile could 
be utilized to see if it a stream. JR stated that there were three abutters who’s concerns should be addressed and perhaps we  
should consider the offer to pay for a study from one of the abutters.  BP expressed a concern that even though the commission 
should go and look at the stream and where a potential riverfront could be however, but where do we go from there and what would 
calculations show if we could actually complete it timely. RB suggested that the engineer should prepare some calculations th at 
show even if it was perennial the proposal would still mee standard.CL agreed with RB’s opinion. RB made a motion to continue the 
hearing until the 17th of June and have the site walk the morning of June 13 th between 845 and 9 AM. JR seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously. 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Ken Matson has filed a 
Notice of Intent for the construction of a single family home at 57 Cross Road Application and supporting documents are avail able 
for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an 
option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 3, 2020. Please email for 
zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020  
 
Anthony Cleaves represented the applicant. Mr Cleaves reviewed the plan and the Notice of Intent with the Conservation 
Commission. RB asked about different plantings for the slope area. Mr. Cleaves agreed to do a slope mix to address RB’s 
concerns. MM noted he examined the overlay and it appeared by MassGIS that the potential riverfront issue may not be applicable 
to this lot. BP noted that the 2 foot contours on this lot in the towns GIS may help with analysis. Charles Kimball noted that 200 foot 
zone should be represented on this lot as well. A motion to continue to the June 17, 2020 meeting was made by KJ with a second 
by TD and a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Bill and June Hudson  hav e 
filed a Notice of Intent for the demolition and reconstruction of a single family home at 9 0 Hemlock Drive. Application and supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 
3, 2020. Please email for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020  
 
Dan Wolfe appeared before the conservation commission and outlined the plans presented to the commission. TD asked if the 
proposed house had an existing concrete pathway going to the water was not shown on the plans. June Hudson noted it is still 
there and leads to the dock and the applicant had no plans to remove it. TD asked that it be added to the plans to show impervious 
surface. RB asked f the proposed house was on the existing foundation. Dan Wolfe noted there will be a new foundation 
construction. RB asked if there was any change in square footage. Dan Wolfe stated there was a slight increase. Bill Hudson 
outline the dimensions and it was determined the additional is 482 square feet. MM noted that the additional work was on 
preexisting impervious. RB asked for a narrative of pre and post square footage. It was noted the additional and the turn around 
was outside of the 50 foot. The details of the proposed decorative retaining wall was examined and shown not to be an increase.  JR 
asked if the mountain laurel on site would remain. It was noted that the Laurels outside of the work area will remain.  CL noted the 
proposed retaining wall is going to a walk out basement. It was asked that architectural renderings be added to the files. MM noted 
that he doesn’t have them. June Hudson noted she would send them right out  by email. TD noted that while the garage is within the 
impervious surface it is  a structure and noted that some of the structure could be within it and requires that the applicant show pre 
and post development with respect to the structures within the 50 foot zone. CC moved to continue to June 17. TD seconded and 
the commission unanimously approved the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Harbor Classic Homes has 
filed request for a determination of applicability for the construction of a driveway at 68 Elm Street Lot 4. Application and  supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 
3, 2020. Please email for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020  
 
Brian Marchetti appeared on behalf of the applicant. He explained the proposal to the commission and the location of the wetland. 
There was no questions from the public. CC moved for a negative determination with a second from RB and a unanimous vote to 
approve.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Harbor Classic Homes has 
filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a single family .at 68 Elm Street Lot 2.. Application and supporting documen ts are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also 
an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 3, 2020. Please email 
for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Harbor Classic Hom es has 
filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a single family .at 68 Elm Street Lot 3.. Application and supporting documen ts are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also 
an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom June 3, 2020. Please email 
for zoom information or consult the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 1, 2020 
 
Brian Marchetti reviewed the proposed work for the common drive and the construction of a single family home and outlined the  
impacts to the buffer zone of two wetland systems outlined on the plan . He reviewed the locations of the grading, home and septic 
system. He also outlined the erosion protection. RB examined the erosion control line with the engineer. CL examined the location 
of the turnaround. Mr. Marchetti noted that the location was due to the grading of the overall site. It was also noted that the 
turnaround was to accommodate the single family home and the turnaround was out of the 50 foot no touch zone. JR examined the 
contouring of the driveway with Mr Marchetti. CL noted that MM had noted the extension of the 50 foot no touch zone. MM noted 
that he had no issues with establishing the 50 foot no touch zone RB moved to approve lot 2 with the no to uch zone being 50 feet. 
TD seconded and the commission voted unanimously. RB moved to approve lot 3 as submitted. CL seconded and the commission 
voted unanimously. 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
2. NON 99 Ruth Street – Administrative hearing RB noted that Mr Williams should be calling in 
for the meeting. Mr Williams appeared at the meeting. He was asked to remove the  dock, 
stairs and deck built without approval . Mr. Williams apologized for the violations and asked 
about keeping the dock and stairs with a file. The Commission informed him he could file if 
he wished, however they were requiring the items to be removed. The Commission agreed a 
fine was not necessary at this time.  
3. EO-164 Page Street – Continued actions – to be removed by May 2020- Due to lack of response. 
MM issued a 100 dollar fine, The owner did contact him subsequent to its receipt and promised the 
trailer would be moved out of the area by the next meeting  
4. EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any)  MM is working with the town 
administrator to achieve the ultimate goal of removing the pavement.  
 
5. NON – 232 Burrage Street- MM has that issue on track for a Notice of Intent from the owner, 
he has requested changes be made in the draft plans presented by the engineering working 
on the project 
6. NON - 400 Electric Ave – MM ensured the silt sack on  the drain was removed and is helping 
the owner complete the paperwork  
7. NON - 932 Flatt Hill Road -In for the June 17 meeting for an RDA  
8. NON - 9 Valley Road MM issued a 100 dollar fine and is waiting to hear back from the owner  
9. NON - 615 Townsend Street – MM is meeting with Val Barros to outline the area of fill to be 
removed. Mr. Barros has pledged cooperation  
10. NON – 1275 Mass Ave – MM has sent a notice of administrative hearing and is awaiting a 
response.  
11. NON – 7 Willow Circle – RDA submitted 
12. NON 1445 Mass Ave – Minor issue regarding minor vegetative cutting. The owner is going to 
file an RDA if any further work is requested. The item is to b e removed from the agenda  
13. NON 181 Reservoir Road – RDA to be submitted 
14. NON 1442 Mass Ave Minor issue regarding minor vegetative cutting. The owner is going to 
file an RDA if any further work is requested. The item is to be removed from the agenda  
15. NON 4 Sunset Lane – See amendment hearing above  
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
  New Business – Office reopening  – MM noted the office was re -opening mid month . Public still will not be   
   allowed in the building during phase 1.  
Old Business – Update on trails grant – status of contracts _ MM has the signage ready to go and is working on the 
remaining closing documents with Heather Lemieux and Brandon Kibbe  
Certificates of Compliance – 675 Reservoir Road, Paul Gougen – Continued awaiting as built drawing 
Extension Permit – 
Minutes of previous meetings - review of April 1 and 15 were approved as amended by MM by a motion of TD and a 
second by CC with a unanimous rollcall vote  .May 6 and 20, 2020 minutes no action yet 
Committee Reports – CL noted he was working on a violation form letter for the next meeting.  
 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies MM noted that the CR for the Saliba Property needs wet 
signatures and requested to meet with the members for signatures,  
Hickory Hills update 
Communications / public comment/  Adjourn - Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is June 17 , 2020 at 7 PM 
 
The meeting adjourned at 11:13 PM by a motion of TD and a second by Cl with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 