===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Todd Dwyer Conservation Administrator 
September 23, 2020 VIA ZOOM  
 
Minutes 
7:00 PM 
 
Call to Order – 
Announcements 
 Meeting was called to order at 7 by KJ acting as chairman with CC, CL, TD, and RB in attendance 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
Jim Lavoie requested clarification of the agenda regarding 99 Ruth St. 
  Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM  
7.1 Deed Restriction final version - EO- 183 Island Road - update  After review, it was noted by CL that the meaning 
of the restriction was a little vague with respect to alteration versus grading in the 50m foot no touch zone 
established in the deed restriction,. MM suggested that the last paragraph have wording change from Grading to 
alteration. All parties were in agreement and it would be made and counsel would review. This will be continued 
until the Oct 7meeting . 
 
7.2 Lunenburg Water Department/Tanner Cole - Stormwater issues at Mass Ave.  In attendance for this appointment 
was Tanner Cole and Fran McNamara from the water division . Mr Cole explained his issue relative to his concern 
about flows coming off of the storm water flows originating at the Water Departments new facility on Mass Ave. He 
noted that the wetlands had silt introduced and he was concerned about the silt and extra drainage causing him 
flooding issues.  MM informed the commission that he and Adam Burney had reviewed orthos from 2008 showing a 
drainage trench/stream going to the rear of the property that carried drainage out.  RB recalled the history of the 
site and prior work done and suggested that Mosquito Control examine the area. He noted that there were methods 
they could use that were exempt from review and could address Mr. Cole’s concerns. Mr. Cole indicated that he 
had no issue with mosquito control coming to examine the property . MM to contact Mosquito Control to set a visit 
up.  
 
 Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Mike Richard and Rhonda Lisio for work at 181 Reservoir Road. will be held. Work proposed is  the 
construction of a detached garage. The supporting documents is available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4146 ext. 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting is scheduled September 23, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar by September 
21, 2020. 
 
Brian Marchetti representing the owners/applicants. He reviewed the plans with the commission, the total square footage of work 
and the history of the lot in relation to the River protection act. CL asked about amending the plans to memorialize the exact 
location of the altered area within the river front on the property. RB had noted the owners expressed a desire to locate propane 
heater next to the tank. RB moved to issue an Order of Conditions with a revised plan to be submitted memorializing the current 
alterations on the property and the propane tank being located next to the garage. KJ seconded and the commission unanimously 
approved by roll call vote. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Determination of Applicability by Keolis will be held. Work proposed is vegetation management on various rights of 
===PAGE 2===
way within the town of Lunenburg for Railways. The supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commissi on 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext. 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled September 23, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the 
town calendar by September 21, 2020. 
 
MM noted there was no one from Keolis available. RB asked if the abutters were notified. MM noted he did not see any 
notifications. RB motioned to continue the meeting to the Oct 7 2020 meeting at 7PM so Keolis could addres s abutter notification. 
CL seconded and the commission voted unanimously buy roll call vote to approve the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by John Harrison for work at 915 Northfield Rd. will be held. Work proposed is the construction of a 
driveway to accommodate a single family. The supporting documents is available for review at the Conservation Commission offi ce 
by calling 978-582-4146  ext. 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
the meeting is scheduled September 23, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar by 
September 21, 2020. 
 
John Harrison appeared before the commission and reviewed the project. TD and RB examined the grading and stormwater. MM 
noted that the driveway was a limited access and as such required a bylaw waiver. He recommended that the commission add a 
conditions in exchange for allowing the waiver that no further alterations not related to maintenance of the driveway will be allowed 
in perpetuity. TD moved to issue an Order of Conditions with the Conditions MM outlined. CL seconded and the Commission voted 
unanimously by roll call vote to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Jeff LaPierre for work at 1672 Mass Ave. will be held. Work proposed is rebuild of an existing shed, 
grading of existing lawn, repair of a retaining wall, removal of a tree and the rep aving of a driveway with gravel. The supporting 
documents is available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext. 431 by appointment. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled September 23, 2020 by 
zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar by September 21, 2020.  
 
MM related the history of the enforcement order on the site> Mr Lapierre represented himself and outlined the work which was 
grading in the rear yard, the rebuild and relocation of a shed and the rebuild of the front landscaped wall by the driveway. RB noted 
that  the lot and the plan does not match as it appears there was additional work done to  the property after the plans were drawn 
and approved originally.  There was also details of the house outline missing, The commission instructed the applicant to have the 
plans revised and all structures and work survey located. RB made a motion to continue. CL seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously by roll call vote to approve.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Bright F arm 
will be held for work at 361 Mass Ave. Work proposed is the construction of a commercial greenhouse ( Lettuce) resulting in 
alteration of an isolated wetland subject to the Lunenburg Wetlands bylaw.. The supporting are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext. 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on req uest by 
emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled September 23, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published 
on the town calendar by September 21, 2020. 
 
( note: BP was able to come to attend this hearing) 
 
Maryann Dipinto and Sean O’Neill represented Brite Farms LLC. The scope of the project was shown to the commission. The 
proposal included the filling and replication of an isolated wetland protectable under local by law, Ms Dipinto outlined the makeup of 
the isolated wetland showing it was about 11,000 square feet and would be replicated adjacent to a larger wetland system located 
on the property, There as also an area of land that the applicant was considering for an easement to co nnect 2 parcels of town 
conservation land together, giving residents expanded access. 
 
After examining the replication, RB noted that replication should be 2:1as well as a desire to see more firm wetland numbers on the 
alteration and to evaluate if the replication rea could be expanded ..He motioned on those grounds to continue to the October 7 
meeting at 7 PM. BP seconded and the commission approved the motion unanimously  by roll call vote.  
   Hearings under Continuation not to be heard at this meeting: 
 
 
CONTINUED to the OCT 7, 2020  :Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection 
and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Ga ry Williams for 99 Ruth Street will be 
held. Work proposed is ( Continued )the restoration for vegetation removal.  Also proposed (New) is for the placement of a stairs 
and dock Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
===PAGE 3===
4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline,   the meeting is 
scheduled October 7, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar on October 5, 2020   
 
Continued to the October 7 meeting by a motion of RB and a second by TD with a unanimous vote by roll call to approve 
 
CONTINUED to the OCT 7, 2020  Meeting: Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for a determination by Andrew L eblanc for work at 362 Townsend 
Harbor Road will be held. Work proposed is the placement of a dock   Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext. 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline,  the meeting is scheduled October 7, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be 
published on the town calendar on October 5, 2020. 
 
Continued to the October 7 meeting by a motion of RB and a second by TD with a unanimous vote by roll call to approve 
 
CONTINUED to the OCT 7, 2020  : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection 
and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Joanne Magurn for work at 238 Fire Road 16 will be held. Work 
proposed is the Construction of a single family home, driveway, well and sewage disposal system with portions of the construction 
within the 100 foot buffer zone. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission  
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline,  the meeting is scheduled October 7, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town 
calendar on October 5, 2020 
Continued to the October 7 meeting by a motion of RB and a second by TD with a unanimous vote by roll call to approve 
 
 
 ENFORCEMENT :  
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
NON 99 Ruth Street – update see above 
EO-32 Brookview Ave, Patricia Adams MM noted the fines were forthcoming for payment  
EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) BP is working with Adam Costa on 
issuing directives to the parties involved  
NON - 9 Valley Road- Working on NOI 
EO – 788 Page Street – reissued EO again by certified mail will want to revisit to institute fines if 
no response is give,  
EO- 4 Townsend Harbor Road  Steve Petruzello appeared before the commission having added to 
the driveway and constructed a shed with no approval. The Commission instructed MM to work 
with Mr Petruzello to file a retroactive Notice of Intent  
 
   New Business – Town Warrant Discussion- BP noted that the town warrant, articles submitted for next week, 
could include a proposal from the conservation commission to ask the townspeople to approve the transfer of 
control of 2 parcels of land at 111 Mulpus Road Rear and 970 N. West Townsend Road to the Conservation 
Commission. The Commission requested MM write separate draft articles for each parcel with BP motioning to 
submit the draft articles. CC seconded and the commission unanimously approved the motion by roll call vote.  
         61 A release request 250 Howard Street BP noted that the open space committee 
recommended to the Board of Selectmen to pursue the matching amount and acquire the parcel. After 
discussion, RB moved to issue a letter supporting the Opens Space Committee. TD seconded and the 
commission unanimously approved the motion by roll call vote. 
Old Business –  
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
Certificates of Compliance – 20 Fire Road 19. MM showed the commission the current conditions of 2 Orders 
of Conditions. After Consideration the commission approved the issuing of the certificates by a motion of CL 
and a second by CC with a unanimous vote allowing both releases.  
Extension Permit – none to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - July 15 2020, August 19, 2020  
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Administrators determination  
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies : 
===PAGE 4===
 –Forestry Planning /Encroachment on town open space MM will have Gray appear at the October 7 meeitng to 
update the commission on future cutting plans  
 Discussion on Land use policy and discussion of Saliba/ table rock management  
Communications / public com ment- Katie Adams noted to the Conservation Commission a concern that the 
item covered concerning” Town Warrant Discussion “ was not published specifically enough and the 
commission could be in violation of the open meeting law. The Commission noted that t he articles that MM was 
going submit to meet the deadline were draft articles, could be turned down at the public meeting of the Board 
of Selectmen and would still be published for town meeting. TD noted that the items would be specifically listed 
on the agenda for the October 7 meeting now the commission knows which direction it wishes to take and at 
that meeting if the public has an issue the  commission didn’t consider it could always withdraw the articles.  
 
Adjourn The meeting was adjourned at 10: 35 PM by a motion of TD and a second by CC with a unanimous 
vote to approve the motion by roll call.  
 
 - Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is October 7,  2020 at 7 PM 
 