===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Richard Bursch, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones Conservation Administrator 
minutes 
April 15, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is 
being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel. 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of 
the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This 
meeting will be broadcast live through local access cable, on Facebook Live on the Public Access 
Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and 
will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: Participants may use cell phones, tablet and computers with audio and 
video capabilities as they have been tested. If you have trouble accessing or have general questions 
you can email during the meeting to lcc@lunenburgonline.com. Emails containing questions or 
comments that are to be read aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name address 
and phone number. 
 
Topic: Conservation Commission 
 
Topic: Conservation Commission Meeting 
Time: Apr 15, 2020 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
  
 To Join Zoom Meeting on a tablet, computer or cell phone: 
 
https://zoom.us/j/555342068 
  
Meeting ID: 555 342 068 
  
Dial by your location on telephone: 
888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 555 342 068 
 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to 
speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to 
speak.
===PAGE 2===
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in 
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted 
by Open Meeting Law. 
 
AGENDA 
 
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY RB AT 7 PM with all member present. All votes were by roll call Catie 
Childs excused her self from the meeting at 9:52 PM 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM  
 
   Appointments: Brandon Kibbe. Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994)-  Brandon Kibbe 
appeared before the commission with updates. Brandon updated the commission with the deadline and requirements. 
He noted that there should be sign at the off street parking area. He noted the par king area that is acceptable as a 
combined parking lot for both grants . The Conservation Commission will also need to submit a land management plan 
that need to have the boundaries photo documented and the trails system gps documented. The closing date will be 
May 15 and the materials have to be put in for June 1, 2020. RB asked if the site assessment was st ill on schedule. Mr. 
Kibbe noted yes. He noted there was a minor issue with 2 small parcels that will be swapped with the gold course and 
the conveyance will need to be completed. Mr. Kibbe has reached out and copied town counsel BP noted he will be 
completing the GPS of the trails. Mr Kibbe noted the boundaries were not monumented and the pictures can be 
submitted showing the approximate areas. BP noted to Mr. Kibbe that he requested a place on the open space 
committee agenda.  
 
Appointments: Hickory Hills Field Change. 
John fortune appeared to review the testing parameters with the conservation commission as 
outlined on the current OOC. He outlined new parameters proposed to the Conservation 
Commission. He request the commission accept the changes recommended by ESS 
Consultants. There was no public comment. The Commission had no questions. HE outlined the 
events to happen this year which include the new parameter testing and developing a nutrient 
budget. There will also be additional public education materials generated as the result of the 
work completed. BP moved to accept the field change, KJ seconded and the commission voted 
to accept unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Lemac Realty Trust has 
filed a Notice of Intent for the upgrade of a septic system within the 100 foot buffer zone at 120 Sunset Lane. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com . 
 
Steve Marsden appeared for the applicant. He outlined the project for the commission which was for the 
replacement of a septic system. He noted the system ism in failure and the actual system is out of the buffer 
zone. The tanks are within the buffer zone and he noted to the commission the title V regulations that required the 
tanks to be located in the are proposed. The existing pump chamber will be utilized. RB asked about the location 
of the no touch zone. Mr. Marsden outlined the area of the no touch zone and noted that there was riverfront, 
however, there is no work proposed within the riverfront and as such is not shown on the plans. The commission 
had no further questions and there was no questions from the public. KJ moved to issue an Order of Conditions 
with TD seconding. There was a second motion by TD with a second by CC for MM  to sign for the Order of 
Conditions both motions approved by roll call vote unanimously, 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, Doug Acker has filed a 
Request for a determination for the removal of trees without stumping within the 100 foot buffer zone at 11 Willow Circle. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by  emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com . 
 
Amy Aker appeared before the commission and explained the project. The pictures of the areas were 
shown to the commission. MM noted that about 10 percent of the trees were stubs. Some of the trees 
were dead or dying. MM noted that there were trees that there were dead or dying trees. BP noted that 
there was a stream and he requested a diagram. Amy Aker asked of the trees were going to be 
weakened as a result. RB asked if the commission came out on a Saturday site walk. MM noted he can 
send Amy Aker the ortho photo of her property. RB showed the applicant the Lunenburg GIS website 
and basics of how it works. There was no public comment. The commission will be on site this Saturday 
at 9 AM. The hearing was continued by a motion of  TD and a second by JR and a unanimous roll call 
vote to approve the motion.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, 
Lois Sonders has filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a septic system within the 100 foot buffer zone at 12 Pine St. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com  
 
 Maryann DiPinto and Dan Proctor were present to represent the applicant. Maryann noted the locations of the 
wetland and the limitations of the lot with respect to the presence of the wetland. There is an exiting system on 
site which was shown by Dan Proctor who outlined the history of the property. Mr. Proctor noted he had a permit 
in hand by the Board of Health. RB examined the grading and the work within the limits of the no disturb zone 
which will be about 10 feet and that the wattles will be the limit of work. JR noted that based on th site inspection 
he feels there is no other place to put it. There was no public comment, TD move to approve an Order of 
Conditions. CC seconded and the commission approved the motion by unanimous roll call vote. 
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg DPW has filed a Request for 
Determination of Applicability in accordance with Massachusetts Regulations 310 CMR 10.00 and Chapter 239, Wetland 
Protection of the Town of Lunenburg zoning bylaws for property located at 520 Chase Road (Lunenburg DPW). The proposed 
activity includes the replacement of the existing underground storage tanks and fleet vehicle dispensers with new aboveground 
storage tanks and new dispensing equipment. The project will involve replacement of the refueling surfaces with new concrete.. 
Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com  
 
Robert Colluccio and Jack Rodriquenz appeared on behalf of the DPW. Mr. Colluccio outlined the project 
for the Conservation Commission and its relation to the wetland resource area. He outlined the tanks that 
would be installed and that they would now be above ground. He outlined the improvem ents within the fuel 
dispensing area. The tanks and any underground piping will be double walled and equipped with sensors. 
There is no work within the buffer zone. There is no increase nor impact in impervious surface. The project 
is utilizing the town funding from a grant program. RB noted that he feels there should be further 
protections due to the proximity of the work to the brook. JR inquired as to the locations of the pumps in 
relation to the riparian zone. He also asked about droplet capturing. Mr Colluccio indicated the control 
barriers. JR also examined alternate locations. Jack Rodriquenz examined the alternate locations and he 
noted and illustrated the large amount of work increase that would be required. He also noted that there 
would be vehicle traffic on the remainder of the site that would be prohibitive. He further outlined the safety 
and filling requirements. He noted that this is not a standard gas station in regard to the fact there is not a 
heavy volume of traffic in an out of the pump area like the gas pumps. He further outlined that the existing 
location was optimized to allow DPW and police vehicle traffic. KJ feels this is important to move on as 
rapidly as possible to get the tanks out of the ground. The above ground tanks area a better alternative 
and more readily observable and that the area proposed was the only area that it could be safely 
completed. He feels there would be more safeguards in place.  CL noted that while he supports JR’s 
comments he also understands the constraints to the town that KJ outlined. He also noted that his 
understanding that it was committed at town meeting to move this out of the area of the Mulpus. CL 
expressed concern that an alternate location could be examined. He feels a Notice of Intent is appropriate. 
TD had visited the site and he does not think there is a sufficient alternate location. RB feels this is a good 
opportunity to control stormwater and should have better mitigation. BP felt the commission should focus 
on the fact that there is an improvement on spill containment, and he would be willing to vote on it. CC 
agreed that there is more detail needed and would like to see a notice of Intent . JR requested a site walk. 
===PAGE 4===
David Passios 56 Whiting Street. He was asking for the deadlines involved in funding. Mr. Rodriquenz 
noted that there is a signed contract with the state and that there may be a deadline extension. The current 
location of the fuel tanks was examined. Mr. Passios expressed agreement with examining alternate 
locations. BP noted that a professional engineer should be on the site walk. RB noted that the commission 
should not be selecting the alternate site but rather determine if the site proposed is acceptab le. KJ noted 
the public safety officials have already noted that it has been determined the location on the site is optimal 
and feels the location is already optimal. JR noted that there is a whole new set of variables now on the 
site that he feels have not been considered. KJ noted that there is a visibility component that will be 
present on that part of the site that is not present in other locations spoke of. CL feels that a Notice of 
Intent should be required. BP feels choosing sites is beyond the commission scope. He feels additional 
detail can be covered on the RDA process. RB noted that DEP will be part of the NOI process. TD feels 
the NOI is appropriate. CL moved for a positive determination. Mr. Colluccio stated that he feels the 
location is optimal and that if there is a Notice of Intent filed would the commission require alternate 
locations. JR seconded. JR did state during the discussion that a site walk could clear the items expressed 
without a vote.  CL feels the pumps should be moved out of the area. The roll call vote was all in favor 
except KJ who voted no.  
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING :Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as 
listed in chapter 239, Wilbur Abbott III has filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a common driveway within the 100 foot 
buffer zone at 335 Chase Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com  
 
 
Chris Anderson appeared before the commission with the revised site plan. He outlined the revisions to the 
plan. He noted that the stream originally outlined change noting that there is no wetland upstream 
changing the designation.  He further outlined the use of a retaining wall to save the amount of trees to be 
cut, He noted that the stream as it is no longer jurisdictional does not require replication. He outlined the 
analysis of the capacity of the pipe to handle the flow and was able to confirm that the pipe was modified to 
ensure that the flow would be handled as a 24 inch pipe that will accommodate the 100 year storm event.  
He did note there will be additional rip rap added to the crossing for scour protection. He requested a 
waiver for the 50 foot no structure zone to accommodate the retaining wall which eliminates the need for 
any intrusion into the 30 foot no touch zone. He outlined the stabilization technique to be utilized.  RB 
analyzed existing conditions’ asked TD about his prior suggestion about flipping the house around. MM 
explained the change in jurisdiction.  Mr. Anderson noted the reasons for the current house location ion 
relation to a 30 foot no touch zone that no longer exists due to the stream reclassification and the title V 
issues.  RB examined potentially moving the grading uphill. Mr. Anderson noted that in order to do that as 
he had examined that there would be a raising of the structure and the overall grading of the toe of slope 
would not wind up changing significantly. He did outline erosion and stabilization procedures for the 
slopes.  RB asked if there could be some boulders dropped n the 50 foot zone. Mr Anderson requested 
that the boulders be looped around in order to accommodate the installation of a well. BP asked if anyone 
went to Mass DOT for the design of the storm drain.  Mr. Anderson noted that DOT would not have any 
design on a road this old and did walk the storm drain areas.   BP indicated he was not in favor of the 
boulders at the 50- foot line. MM noted the will review the erosion/seed mixes.  There was no public 
comment. 
 
 
 
A motion was made to approve the driveway with the addition of the boulders within the 50 foot zone and 
the stabilization ix to be determined by the administrator by KJ and a second by BP the roll call vote was 
unanimous to approve. 
===PAGE 5===
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING :Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as 
listed in chapter 239, Wilbur Abbott III has filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a single family home with a driveway and 
septic within the 100 foot buffer zone at 335 Chase Road Lot number 2. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com . 
Mr Anderson explained the location of the home with respect to the wetland. JR asked about mitigation of 
the driveway. Mr Anderson noted the driveway is pitched to a stone drain and daylighted down stream on 
the property. Roll call to approve was unanimous.  
Motion to approve with the addition of the rip rap specifications added by JR and CC seconded.   
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING :Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as 
listed in chapter 239, Wilbur Abbott III has filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a single family home with a driveway and 
septic within the 100 foot buffer zone at 335 Chase Road Lot number 3. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com  
 
  Chris Anderson appeared resenting the applicant and outlined the proposal for the commission with the added 
proposal of the boulders. A motion (see above) was made by JR to approve and TD seconded the motion and 
unanimously approved by roll call vote. Motion by BP and a second by KJ to allow MM to sign for the members.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as 
listed in chapter 239, Dan & Jean Proctor have filed a Notice of Intent for the removal of earth and storm water management 
within the 100 foot buffer zone at 1325 Mass Ave. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com.  
 
Frank McPartland represented the applicant and noted to the commission events since the last meeting. He noted 
the MEPA certificate was issue on April 10, 2020. He noted that the certificate would require the review go to 
resubmit the ENF. He outlined that the screening operation was moved out the zone II and III and there will be no 
storage of fuels within that area as well. He also outlined the revisions that were made by the applicant to address 
DEP and commission comment. The Planning Board closed on the stormwater permit on Monday evening. He 
outlined the required soil borings and related the results to the commission.    
 
 
There was no public input. BP moved to approve the plans. KJ seconded and the commission vote unanimously 
to approve. There was a motion by BP with a second by KJ to allow MM to sign the Order of Conditions.  
 
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By -law ( 
Wetland Bylaw) DPW has filed a Notice of Intent for the replacement of Culverts at Sunset Lane and Northfield Road. Application 
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline.com.  
 
CL requested the if the hearing is continued that a status report be filed at a minimum.  Cl moved to 
continue to May 6. KJ seconded and the commission approved unanimously by roll call vote   
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining 
wall at 51 Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office 
by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com.  
 
Appointments : Neil Gorman informal discussion concerning potential construction at 238 Fire Road 16 
Neil Gorman and Butch Magurn presented an information plan showing a plan for a single family home 
and its relation to the wetland resource areas. He outlined that there was a wetland area reviewed with MM 
noting that there is a wetland subject to local by law. He was asking for commission input in order to 
decide to proceed with the filing. RB examined the hydrologic connection between the lake and the 
===PAGE 6===
isolated area. It was noted that there is a rare species habitat. It would be noted that it would go to MESA 
review.  It was noted that there is an exiting road way which would not require major modification. MM 
recommended that the MESA review be completed prior to the filing of the NOI. Mr. Gorman noted areas 
of existing pervious surface that could be removed. CL noted the history of the site and confirmed the 
existence of the impervious pad. CL indicated he was concerned about any modifications of the 30 foot no 
touch zone.  JR asked if the cart path was a public Right of way. Mr. Gorman noted it was private property. 
JR had spoke about relocating the garage and place it out of the  foot zone. TD noted he was opposed to 
any work within the 50 foot zone.  The septic system location was examined. Mr Magurn noted that they 
are current lake residents and are sensitive to the concerns in the lake and the remainder of the 13 acres 
would remain undeveloped. He noted that areas closer to the residents were steeper sloped areas and the 
proposed location of the proposed pushed maximize the flat parcel. They will propose more information. 
  Appointment: Field Change Jon Hogue- MM 
outlined the field change He will monitor the 
construction. BP moved to approve the 
change. JR seconded and the commission 
vote unanimously to approve with TD 
abstaining.  
 
ENFORCEMENT 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
1. EO- 179/183 Island Road- continued discussion and administrative hearing  MM outlined the 
history of the site and the enforcement actions. RB asked the commission to addressed the 
outline for remediation. MM noted the survey was underway. TD feels the survey is a critical 
component and it should be used to contribute to a resto ration plan. The lake is currently to 
high for the removal of the sand. BP noted that the sand should be removed. He feels the sand 
should be removed. He noted the stone wall is 44 feet to the water now and not 50 feet. He 
further noted that there should b e remedial planting done for the displacement of any BVW and 
fining is in order. CL noted that  then report should be amended to add the fact that the 44 feet 
from wall to shore was no t an issue. KJ wants to wait for the survey to be completed.  JR asked 
if there could be an incentive added  for a fine. BP feels a revegetation plan should be 
discussed and approved by the commission. Joseph Obrien noted that he contacted 
Stan Dillis and will have the survey required by the commission added. He will have 
the high-water mark. MM felt adding the BVW as Mr O’Brien outlined was a good 
idea. The commission confirmed it agreed with the direction of re-staking the wetland. 
Mr. O’Brien noted that the sand still on the area that was altered was the remains of 
the sand from the original pile and he can get rid of it now and scrape it to the loom 
layer. He asked if it could be regraded and seeded. He noted that he would have the 
engineer draw on the shrubbery.  He offered to start planting bushes now. CL feels 
we need to get everything documented prior to the start of work. He feels that there 
was grading of the 50 foot area and feels that there should be some survey work done 
on the grading that had happened. RB noted that plans approved in May 2019 did not 
have that level of detail. JR reviewed photos he had taken of the site. It showed 
grading within the waters edge and the retaining wall by the edge showing what 
appears to be a modification to the wall. JR asked that the sand be removed now. 
Paula Bertram noted that there was 3 abutters to the properties that can no longer 
access the water and that she felt the wattles were insufficient. Joan Pease noted that 
the revegetation should not consist of lawn and that it should be replanted as soon as 
possible. Mr. Obrien consented to allow MM to contact survey . He will initiate contact 
by both writing and phone calls.  
2. EO-164 Page Street – Continued actions – to be removed by May 2020  noted nothing has 
been done to date MM to send out an administrative notice by a motion of CL and a second 
by TD. Letter to be sent by certified mail.  
===PAGE 7===
3. EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) 
New Business - Site Walk for Gilchrest Street Property for trail access- report on walk with Kevin Hill MM 
Noted that he walked the property with the Chairman and Matt landry. They will grade off a 3 foot wide path 
from the road to the driveway to be completed in the next month. MM noted a NON has been sent to the owner 
of 9 Valley Road to file a retro active RDA by April 30, 2020.  
Open Space parcels (non conservation) discussion ( if any update) 
Revisions of Land Use Policy – BP noted that he sent the 
commission during the meeting an email from the meeting he had 
with Adam Costa.  
Old Business – Update on trails grant – status of contracts 
Certificates of Compliance – 
Extension Permit – 
Minutes of previous meetings - review of April 1, 2020 minutes - Action was delayed until the May 6 meeting to allow 
MM to make amendments to the draft minutes . 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies Winter trails 
 Hickory Hills general updates 
 LSIC receipt of annual  report 
 Update on hunting Signage 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn 
 Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is May 6, 2020 at 7 PM 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 12:08 AM by a motion of TD and a second by KJ.  