===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
October 28, 2020 
7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel at a future time. 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions 
of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This 
meeting will be broadcast live through local access cable, on Facebook Live on the Public Access 
Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and 
will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
To Participate Remotely on Zoom members of the public may use cell phones, tablets or computers with 
audio and video capabilities. The Zoom Meeting ID is 
 
 Start: 10/28/2020 7:00 pm  
 End: 10/28/2020 7:59 pm  
 Summary: Conservation Commission  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description: 
 
 
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86167495304 
 
Meeting ID: 861 6749 5304 
One tap mobile 
+13126266799,,86167495304# US (Chicago) 
+19292056099,,86167495304# US (New York) 
 
Dial by your location 
+1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
+1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
+1 301 715 8592 US (Germantown) 
+1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
+1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
+1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 861 6749 5304 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/ktA0wyxTs 
 
 Location: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86167495304  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. All participants who are not members of the 
commission or staff will be muted by the chair. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to 
request to speak. To access the raise hand feature, open the participant list by clicking on participants. To 
raise your hand, click on the button at the bottom of the participant list. The chair will call on you and 
unmute you. Telephone audio users may dial star 9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Members 
of the public must give their name and address before they begin speaking. Please direct all comments to 
the chair. 
 
 
If you have trouble accessing zoom or have general questions you can send an email to 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com during the meeting. Emails containing questions or comments that are to be read 
aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name, address and phone number. 
 
 
Please be aware that if you are using video, other people will be able to see you and that anything that is 
broadcast will be recorded. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated 
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open 
Meeting Law. Each vote taken in this meeting will be conducted by roll call vote. 
 
MINUTES 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
 
 
 
Note : All votes were made by roll call vote.  
 
The meeting was called to order by Chairman Pease with all in attendance. 
 
1.0 LSIC- Change request- Date of Drawdown modification. 
Wendy Gendron appeared before the commission representing the LSIC. CL asked if JV wanted 
to know if his disclosure form was submitted and approved. BP noted that is between JV and the 
ethics commission and consultation with town counsel it was stated that is up to the individual. 
JV noted it was filed and feels there is no conflict on this issue.  
 
Wendy Gendron wanted to present the commission with a request for field change and that it 
was not for this year as it was going ok. She asked for this for future years. CL noted that it is 
difficult sometimes to get to lower levels. He asked what was the justification for the request to 
change it for a date (Dec 1) that has not come in range as of yet and stated this issue could be 
discussed at the November 18, 2020 ,meeting if there was an issue.  
 
WG noted was the request for future years and indicated LSIC would be willing to consult with 
the commission was for future yeas and rather than come back for emergency certifications that 
having it written within the order of conditions would allow for it for be written into the process. 
 
Cl noted that this depth of a change should be subject to a more intensive review. BP asked MM 
to verify the written request. MM noted it was the same in writing as what Wendy Gendron stated 
earlier and this was for a field change request.  
 
JR verified what the language was with the applicant. Wendy noted that the Shirley Con Com 
adjusted their version of the order that if further time is needed they could come to the 
===PAGE 3===
commission as a part of the current order instead of an emergency certification. Jr noted he 
visited the site and noted that the past Order allowed for a drawdown up to 9 feet. He further 
noted the GEIR required the Dec 1 date and deviation had to have justification. Wendy Gendron 
noted that the GEIR calls for consultation with Fish and Wildlife if the level goes beyond 3 feet. 
She noted that Fish and wildlife could be consulted in the odd ball years. JR noted that fish and 
wildlife approved up to 6 feet. JR noted if we go beyond 6 feet then we would have to go to fish 
and wildlife if they go deeper. KJ noted that the request was not for deeper than 6 feet. JR noted 
that if was beyond Dec 1 the applicant needs to go back to fish and wildlife. BP clarified the 
request was to be allowed to go to Dec 31 if the 6 foot drawdown was not approved by Dec 1 they 
could come to ask for the extended date by procedure.  
 
CL noted that the order discussion was geared towards variability and noted that if the 
commission allows for the extension it shouldn’t be on reaching a certain level. KJ just allowing 
the flexibility based on weather is appropriate with the condition that they come to the 
commission for review and permission. Wendy Gendron noted KJ was correct that the level 
variability was based on weather and the request is not totally based on level. For example if the 
target footage was four feet and an extension was granted and it did not make it 4 and only 3 feet 
that was the variability.  JV noted he let 6 feet for this year was critical and felt it should be up to 
fish and game at this point. He noted a variability could be based on. RB asked if they have been 
in front of the town of Shirley. He noted that during those times they needed the extended date it 
was allowed by the LCC and the town of Shirley was the agency that was against it. JR asked if 
fish and game gave us a waiver to go to the end of they year. RB noted it was DEP that had 
gotten involved and allowed it until Dec 31. He further noted subsequent discussion with DEP 
they had noted it could be allowed until Dec 31 by the commission. He noted that he felt the 
order could be adjusted to allow the commission to approve an extension of the drawdown on 
the extended basis. He also noted it could be an agents determination based on criteria of 
weather in the future but should not be part of that vote tonight until the criteria was established 
and he felt that it could be granted tonight as long as it was reviewed yearly. Cl asked for 
clarification if RB was in agreement with modifying the order of conditions tonight and wanted to 
know if they could come back every year at the second November meeting. RB noted he would 
be in favor of the change as long as it was brought back to the commission every year. BP asked 
if a filed change was the correct way to do this. MM at the request of BP narrated the fields 
change versus the amendment process and what could trigger an amendment. B P polled the 
membership CC JR KJ BP and JV noted a field change was appropriate RB and Cl noted they felt 
it should be an amendment. BP noted that the field change requested would require a change to 
the order of conditions and didn’t think a field change would be sufficient. Joy Derner abutter 
noted she had concerns that she had concerns about the effects of the depth of the drought. She 
noted that there was a rapid draw down and it looks like its likely 6 feet in depth. She asked if the 
actual depth has been measured and even just the Dec 1 st could be greater than 6 feet. BP screen 
shared the data from the LSIC on the dam measurement at 45 inches. KJ noted that the request 
was not for this year. Wendy Gendron confirmed it was not for this year, She also confirmed at 
the start of this year the lake was indeed down by 8 inches. RB noted that depth below 6 feet 
usually would up having generated complaints from the residents for we ll issues. JV noted he 
used a laser level and got a measurement of 48 inches From a reference he established as the 
normal lake level. JR noted that by his estimates they could reach the levels this year was this 
vote even necessary at this time. Wendy Gendron noted she wanted to ensure that the 
administrative record would be clean. BP noted that his understanding was that Shirley Con Com 
was  open to allowing the DEC 31 date if Lunenburg was willing to allow it and both towns would 
be consistent. CL noted the commission is being asked to change their order to accommodate 
wishes of the Shirley Conservation Commission and didn ’t understand why the vote was even 
necessary. Wendy Gendron noted the purpose was to allow for an administrative record allowing 
a revised procedure that would be consistent with both orders. CL felt that an amendment was 
the cleanest way to go administratively. Wendy noted that the filed change would generate a 
record and not necessarily a change but it would accomplish the same thing. RB stated that a 
change to the order would require an amendment. RB made a motion to send a letter to the 
Shirley ConCom, pending a positive vote, stating that the LCC will amend the order of conditions 
to end the drawdown at 6 ft. of depth or until Dec. 1 st and that they would be open to annual 
approval of extending the drawdown until Dec. 31st  pending proper notification and amendment 
to the order. RB further clarified his opinion that a change to a line item in the order could not be 
changed via a field change.. CL seconded. KJ noted the cleaner way to do it was an amendment. 
JR noted he was in agreement with RB. The motion was passed by the commission by a vote of 
===PAGE 4===
RB, CL, BP, CC, KJ yes and JV no. JV and BP both restated that they felt a field change would 
have been appropriate. MM noted that a limited abutter notification could be attempted to allow 
the process to move forward. RN indicate he was comfortable with that as long as there was 
notification in the paper. CL expressed concern that a limited notification for a requested 
amendment would not comply with regulations. KJ was OK as long a notifications met the 
regulations. 
 
Wendy stated that they would proceed with an amendment in Shirley as there were only 22 
abutters but the expense to process an amendment in Lunenburg would be too expensive and 
they would proceed based on waivers as required in the future years.  
 
JR asked if a workshop could be added for procedures on when items are denied and narratives 
as such to the next agenda. 
 
2.0 Adjourn RB motioned to adjourn KJ seconded and the commission voted unanimously. At 8:05 
PM 