===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Todd Dwyer Conservation Administrator 
MINUTES 
October 7, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM Meeting was called to order with BP presiding and all 
member present except KJ and CC. MM, staff absent Due to power outage. 
Note: All votes taken by roll call due to remote participation under pandemic rules.  
Comments: JR asked MM to contact Dave Oram for emergency certifications 
John fortune appeared before the Commission to inform them that the siphons at Hickory Hills 
Lake have been opened Due to the drawdown, the land owners Association requested an 
emergency certification to remove a mound of gravel at the shoreline that was preventing use of 
the boat ramp. JR Totally supported the emergency measure. BP Recalled the last time it was 
actually an enforcement order issued on a non-adversarial basis to remove a hump of gravel for 
safety reasons. JR Motion for MM to issue the enforcement order. RB asked if there was anything 
in writing regarding the request. BP did not know. RB had no problem with the concept as long as 
it was documented by the Hickory Hills land owners Association. Mr Fortune Indicated that he 
would send an email to the Conservation Commission. CL Indicated he had no issue giving the 
permission but express concern regarding the ordering for safety reasons. He felt it was more of a 
personal property issue. BP noted that we would wait for the email before taking the issue up 
again. 
 
7.1 Deed Restriction final version- EO- 183 Island Road- update - No one was present to represent 183 
island Rd wow.  BP noted the deed restriction. CL noted That there was a word on the 
restriction that was supposed to be changed. After discussion it was agreed by the Commission 
and applicant to change no “grading” to no “alteration” in the restriction. JR Ask to add no 
dispersion of water from the pool to the Lake to the restriction. He clarified that it would be a 
flexible pipe run greater than 100 feet from the Lake. Action was delayed until a future meeting.  
7.2 LSIC, Request for a field change to Drawdown Order of Conditions -Wendy Gendron was present to 
represent the Lake Shirley improvement Corporation. She outlined the condition in the order of 
conditions which called for a drawdown end date specific to December 1st. CL noted he would 
support the request. He noted that when the order was approved it was suggested for a 
December 31st date but it was rejected originally by the LSCI and wanted to know why the 
change at this point. Wendy noted during the order of conditions hearing there was a time 
constraint where the Lake Shirley improvement Corporation did not want to spend extra time 
having to go back to fisheries and wildlife for another approval. JR wanted to know if we needed 
to go to DEP for their input and approval. RB noted that the original date in the GEIR was 
December 1st and was not sure there was language in the order if there was any procedure 
available. RB also noted we should put it on the next agenda as we still have time and should 
research the order. Wendy Gendron did agree that the GEIR did state a December 1st date 
however it was not a hard and fast date depending on the site and input should be sought front 
Fish and Wildlife. Wendy also noted that the commission had the ultimate decision on an 
amended date. 
===PAGE 2===
 
7.3 Conservation Commission talent back applicants: The chairman noted it was TD’s last meeting 
with the Conservation Commission and praised his performance and thanked him for his 
service. The chairman reviewed submitted bank applications the Commission as to their 
background. The chairman noted Jeff Viviano at current point is the only applicant and will be 
going in front of the board of selectman and is appearing as a chance to say hello to the 
Commission and ask any questions. Jeff echoed the chairman's sentiments regarding Todd 
Dwyer and his service to the Commission. Jeff noted he had been to many meetings with the 
system as an associate member and is familiar with the process and the expectations of the 
Commission.  JR gave praise to commissioner Dwyer for his depth of engineering experience 
and asked Mr Viviano what type of technical background he had that might be able to contribute 
to the commission's efforts. Mr Viviano did note in his occupation as an airline pilot he does 
have some engineering experience and has HV AC experience. His experience in that field 
gave him the knowledge of reading plans and deciphering items like elevation in required 
installations. RB also praised Mr Dwyer’s experiences and how it will be missed. He asked if 
there was a 10 day advertising. That was met. He wanted to ensure there was sufficient time for 
sufficient applications. BP noted it was advertised in the Ledger and has been on the website 
for 12 days. He further stated his expectation for the board of selectman to appoint someone 
next week. Mr Dwyer thanks everyone for their kind words and expressed how he will miss 
being with the Conservation Commission. He thanked Mr Viviano for his coming forward to 
volunteer and that he reminded the Commission Mr Viviano went through the application 
process himself and also was an associate member period. BP reminded the Commission this 
is not an interview and there was no recommendation that was coming forth. The board of 
selectman did ask BP to write a recommendation based on Mr Viviano's being an associate 
member in the past. Commissioner Dwyer did notice on the Board of Selectmen agenda that Mr 
Viviano's talent bank application is on the selectman's agenda for the next meeting. CL also 
praised Mr Dwyer's service to the Commission. CL asked about Mr Viviano's availability due to 
his scheduling problems in the past even for his own NOI hearings. Mr Viviano replied that he is 
adjusted his schedule to account for the time he would need and that is experienced as an 
associate member gave him a definitive account of the amount of time needed. The 
Commission thanked Mr Viviano for coming to the meeting.  
 
HHL -The chairman noted to the Commission that he had just received an email from John fortune 
and read it into the record. JR moved to issue an enforcement order that the Hickory Hills lake 
Association use any method available to remove the gravel noted specifically in the email request 
and that occur within the next 30 days. Mr Dwyer asked for amendment to the motion that any 
matting necessary be placed to prevent tracks being left into the Lake bottom. BP noted that the 
lakebed in that area is all gravel. Mr Fortune noted the excavator would be on dry ground along the 
shoreline. TD asked if there was a way we could keep it in the motion for just in case purposes. CL 
wanted to know why we couldn't issue it as an emergency cert with an RDA follow up.  RB noted in 
an emergency certification there had to be an overriding public issue. Simply pulling the boats out of 
the water is not an overriding public need. TD ask if the Hickory Hills land owners Association could 
add a page to the Lake management plan outlining this procedure. This way in the future, there did 
not need to be repeated appearances to the Conservation Commission. RB seconded the motion 
and the Commission voted unanimously to approve  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Michael 
Defazio for work at 130 Flynn Road The work is for the construction of an attached Garage within the buffer zone. 
Michael de Fazio appeared representing himself. He outlined the project and its relationship to the 
wetland to the Conservation Commission. TD ask for more specifics regarding the payment on the 
driveway. Mr Defazio noted it would be a gravel grated base driveway and there would be no 
expansion or pavement. Jr asked if there was an impervious bottom on the existing garage. It was 
noted yes there was, and it would be removed loomed and seeded.CL confirmed the placement of 
erosion control. TD moves to issue a standard order of conditions based on the plans. CL 
===PAGE 3===
seconded and the Commission voted to approve the motion by unanimous roll call vote.  
 
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Thomas 
Crocker for work at 200 Island Road. The work is for the demolition and reconstruction of a single family home within the buffer 
zone. 
 
Paul Kirchner appeared representing the applicant. He outlined the project scope for the 
Conservation Commission along with its relationship to the wetlands on the property. He noted 
the current condition of the property which is currently dilapidated as it has not been occupied 
since 1999.He outlined the waiver requests from the 50 foot no structure zone for the proposed 
driveway. He did note that the new driveway and structures are actually further away than the 
original structures. CL Examine the location of the proposed driveway. JR examined the pre and 
post development for the driveway and the material the driveway was going to be made from. It 
was determined it was going to be paved.  He also noted that there would be increased 
impervious in the total 100-foot buffer zone. Mr Kirchner noted that this was a new structure and 
that they had taken care to pull the structure away from the more sensitive inner 50 foot areas of 
the buffer zones and the site was limited in locations due to the steepness of the slopes on the 
property. BP clarified what the request was for. RB asked if there was a forward access to the 
garage considered. Mr Kirchner mentioned it was the landowner’s preference. BP noted 
familiarity what the topography of the area and a front orienting entrance could be difficult. Jr 
asked why a large driveway pad was needed. Mr Kirchner responded it was needed for a 
standard turn around. He noted this particular orientation was designed to maximize distance 
from the wetland edge TD asked if the existing driveway entered off the abutters’ property. He 
asked why the house wasn't rotated so that the house in the driveway would be out of the buffer 
zone. He noted a 30-degree clockwise turn might accomplish this. Mr Kirchner noted rotating the 
house 30 degrees would cause it to face sideways hence facing the cul-de-sac instead of the 
road front. BP noted that he supported the proposal as proposed. After straw polling the 
Commission it was indicated the Commission would like to see a reconfiguration of the plan. RB 
noted he would like to see a limit of work shown on the plan as well. The applicant requested a 
continuance to the October 21st meeting at 7:00 PM. Jr made a motion to continue to the date 
and time prior specified RB seconded and the Commission voted unanimously to approve the 
motion.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for A Determination 
by Fred Arnstein for work at 181 Peninsula Drive. The work is for the construction of a shed within the buffer zone. 
 
Mr. Arnstein appeared to represent himself. The applicant presented a picture to the Commission at 
the preexisting shed. He noted one of the pictures show the shed and its full dimension and location.  
JR noted that the structure was a tent and it was not previously authorized and is well within the 30 
foot no touch zone. He felt the structure should be moved back out of the 50 foot zone. He felt the 
structure was a temporary structure put up annually and taken down as needed. CL Noted he did 
not feel there was enough information to document a pre existing structure and felt it was out of 
compliance with our local by law. RB noted there was a property line issue and that there was no 
documentation as to its pre existing structures. BP noted he went through historical ortho photos 
and noted that it could be clearly seen there was some type of structure there previously. CL moves 
for a positive determination JR seconded. The applicant did ask where else on the property with the 
Commission be favorable for a location. The chairman instructed the applicant to work with the 
conservation administrator on a potential location. The motion for a positive determination was 
passed by a unanimous roll call vote.  
 
 
Continued : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Determination of Applicability by Keolis will be held. Work proposed is vegetation management on various rights 
of way within the town of Lunenburg for Railways  . 
 
RB Notice at the meeting previous the concern was expressed about abutter notification and he 
===PAGE 4===
noted the communication from the applicant noting mass general law but the abutter notification 
requirement under bylaw was not applicable. He noted that MM had advised a negative 
determination and recommended the commission moved forward with the negative determination. 
CL noted guidance from other organizations advising a positive determination. It would not stop 
Keolis from proceeding. RB noted that MM had advised the negative determination was the 
commission’s historic action and felt it should continue along those lines. BP noted the MACC 
mailing. CL felt the commission should continue. JR moved to continue the hearing. TD indicated 
he received a text message from MM and he still recommended a negative determination. JR 
withdrew the motion and moved to issue a negative determination RB seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously to approve the motion. RB in closing did note that MACC is an 
advisory group and not really a ruling agency.  
 
Continued: Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Jeff LaPierre for work at 1672 Mass Ave. will be held. Work proposed is rebuild of an existing 
shed, grading of existing lawn, repair of a retaining wall, removal of a tree and the repaving of a driveway with gravel. 
 
Mr. Lapierre appeared at the meeting to represent himself. He noted he was having survey done. 
CL noted his concerns pertain to what trees are going to be removed and what trees were going to 
be left in place as well as accurately noting the current configuration of the driveway. He noted he 
was going to have everything represented on the plans to present a more accurate drawing.  JR 
examined the location of the proposed new shed versus the old shed. Mr Lapierre noted the shed 
was moved out due to old wood rotting underneath and was planning on putting a foundation in its 
place. Jr ask the applicant to consider moving the shed out of the 30 foot no touch zone. Mr 
Lapierre indicated a willingness to examine the issue as his plan is drawn out. TD asked what was 
under the shed prior and he was told it was loan with some old stumps buried and the owner had 
them removed. RB noted that he agreed with JR’s concern and noted that there was no previous 
filing for the shed. He also asked for the plans to reflect current condition and further note 
disturbance up to the edge of wet and wanted to ensure that was represented on the plans as well. 
The owner indicated it would probably be possible to get the shed out of the 30 foot no touch zone 
but was not sure about the 50 foot no structure zone and noted that the plywood on the shed was 
dated 1998 for the shed being there for about 22 years. TD asked the applicant how long he 
owned the property, and it was noted that it was purchased by the current owner 10 years ago. He 
also asked if he had pictures prior to the work done in the property. And the owner indicated yes. 
RB moved to continue the hearing to the October 21st meeting at 7:00 o'clock PM. JR seconded 
the motion.  JR asked If the applicant would be ready by the 21st. Mr Lapierre indicated he was not 
certain. It was agreed that if it was not ready, he would request a continuance. CL noted it should 
probably be moved for the November 4th meeting.  RB amended his motion to change the date to 
Nov 4. JR seconded the amendment. The Commission passed the motion by unanimous roll call 
vote.  
 
Continued: Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by 
Bright Farm will be held for work at 361 Mass Ave. Work proposed is the construction of a commercial greenhouse ( Lettuce) 
resulting in alteration of an isolated wetland subject to the Lunenburg Wetlands bylaw. 
 
Maryann Dipinto and Sean O’Neill appeared before the commission. Mr O'Neill recapped the 
issues outlined from the last meeting. The updated mitigation illustrated on updated documents 
provided were reviewed to ensure they met the commission's previous request for a larger 
replication area. MaryAnn DiPinto outlined her methodology in how the wetland replication area 
was chosen and calculated. JR asked if Hannaford was notified as to the expanded replication 
area. Mr O'Neill noted that he was dealing with the property owners as an offer to Walmart were 
tenants and have apprised them of the current status of the filing. RB asked if there was a 
construction schedule for the wetland replication. Ms. Dipinto noted there was a mitigation 
sequence submitted, however the actual time table has not been determined due to other 
remaining approvals. Mr O'Neill noted based on their construction scheduling spring of 2021 
should be the time all of the earth work including the replication is completed. BP reviewed the 
standards of replication with the applicant. RB had examined the replication sequence And 
requested a condition be added to the order of conditions that would require any plants that fail to 
===PAGE 5===
grow be replaced in kind. He put that in the form of a motion, JR seconded and the Commission 
voted unanimously to approve the motion in a roll call vote.  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Gary Williams for 99 Ruth Street 
will be held. Work proposed is (Continued )the restoration for vegetation removal. Also proposed ( New) is for the 
placement of a stairs and dock 
 
The Commission issued a positive determination of applicability for the remediation plan by  a 
motion of CL second by TD and a unanimous vote by the Commission roll call to approve the 
motion.  
 
The Commission issued a positive determination of applicability for the Placement of the dock 
and the stairs by a motion of CL second by TD and a unanimous vote by the Commission roll call 
to approve the motion.  
 
   CONTINUED : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws      
   a public hearing on a Request for a determination by Andrew Leblanc for work at 362 Townsend Harbor Road will be held. Work    
   proposed is the placement of a dock. 
 
    JR moved for a negative determination. CL seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve 
by a roll call  vote.  
 
 
 
CONTINUED : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws 
a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Joanne Magurn for work at 238 Fire Road 16 will be held. Work proposed is the 
Construction of a single family home, driveway, well and sewage disposal system with portions of the construction within the 100 
foot buffer zone. 
 
 
Neill Gorman, Brian Butler Joanne and Butch Magurn were present  to represent the applicant. CL 
noted that the new information/documents provided that day did not meet the timing requirements 
for data submittal and consideration. BP allowed the information to be presented and used for the 
purposes of providing the applicant feedback. Mr Butler noted that the information was presented 
commensurate to the prior site visit on Sept 1. 
 
Brian Butler reviewed the information presented the Commission subsequent to the previous 
meeting. Neil Gorman outlined the change from the detached garage that the driveway leading up to 
that structure is going to be gravel with the remainder to be pavement, therefore significantly 
reducing amount of impervious originally planned by eliminating the first 640 feet of originally 
proposed paved driveway and converting it to a proposed gravel. He addressed the span requested 
from the previous meeting over the flood plain. He noted the applicant is proposing instead to add a 
second open bottom culvert widening the amount that's actually spanned.  He also removed the 
proposed compensatory storage area in order to reduce work within the zero to 30-foot zone 
reducing the amount of work by about 2200 square feet which was mostly associated with 
compensatory storage.  He noted that an adjustment was made in the culvert opening as a result of 
removing the compensatory storage. He contended that there is less flood plain filled as a result.  
He also noted the removal of mitigation plantings near the location of the detached garage that was 
no longer needed due to the reduction in filling of floodplain.  He further reviewed mitigation 
plantings by the proposed house structure. He noted that they were removing 1200 square feet of 
previously impervious area and that area would also be part of the mitigation planting. He noted 
there was four more Oak trees that would be planted that were added to the plan from the previous 
meeting. He reviewed the previous proposal upper conservation restricted area on the lot that was 
originally 3.7 acres and increased it to four acres.  He noted 1.3 acres are wetland and 2.7 acres 
was Upland. Within the 50-foot buffer zone was .9 acres, .4 acres was within the 50 to 100-foot 
buffer zone and the remaining 1.4 acres was outside the 100 ft. buffer zone.  He noted that the total 
===PAGE 6===
16 acres there was a less than 6% disturbance in total. He again re summarized the changes in the 
plans. Brian Butler answered a concern expressed on the September 1st site walk regarding the 
number of trees that would be removed which came to 27 trees over a 6 inch diameter in the area of 
the house and that there would be no tree cutting to facilitate the driveway. He reemphasized that 
there was a large amount that would be re naturalized based on the numbers represented 
previously by Mr Gorman.  
 
 
JR noted he was appreciative of the reduction in pavement. He asked what the potential impacts 
were for snow plowing as the driveway was only 10 feet wide and was concerned about ruts being 
dug into the driveway.  Mr. Gorman clarified that the road shoulders were at 10 ft. width. He 
expressed concerns regarding the sensitivity of the esker and the impacts to continued plowing and 
driving on it. He noted that there were some smaller trees to be removed and noted the standards 
do not differentiate between four inch and six inch tress with the exception of the rate of 
replacement. He expressed the concern there would be long term stress placed on the Esker. He 
further noted the septic system should be greater than 100 feet from a wetland and asked if the 
Board of Health had approved it. It was noted by the applicant that the Board of Health did approve 
the septic system. JR questioned how this was approved by the Board of Health He also asked if 
the property had been in front of the planning board. The applicant responded that the planning 
board deemed it a buildable lot. JR asked if there was a turn around required to be placed in a 
driveway and cited regulation concerning heavy equipment traversing the driveway. He further noted 
that wetland crossings under bylaw would not necessarily be allowed if there was an alternative 
means of access or an alternative configuration of the lot analyzed.  
 
CL Noted that he shared many of the concerns previously cited by JR. He felt there were alternative 
locations available on this thirteen plus acre property that could be built on and that if an order 
conditions for this proposal were denied, it doesn't mean we are denying development of this 
property. He expressed general concern of the amount of 30 ft. no touch areas that were being 
disturbed and would not have to be if the home were built elsewhere on the property. He further 
noted that the esker the road was on was very narrow and sensitive. In some areas it was as little as 
14 ft. wide at the crown and expressed concern the road disturbance would eventually go beyond 
the crown. He also stated that he felt packed gravel was impervious and he would actually prefer 
pavement as it would be more stable. He further wanted to examine if there was a waiver granted 
from the Board of Health for the septic system as the Town regulations prohibited septic systems 
within 100 ft. of a wetland. He wanted to know what the waiver was based on and if wetlands were 
taken into consideration or if it was based solely on Public Health issues. He noted that there were 
no paths to access the Lake or any docks on the plan shown for access to the Lake, therefore the 
plan was incomplete. He strongly recommended if an order of conditions was approved that 
conditions be added that the 50-foot zone now be considered the no touch zone expanding from the 
30 ft. no touch. He indicated there were still some questions on the math that he felt was not 
answered and that the Commission should be given time to review that.   He indicated uncertainty 
over the tree replacement count strategy and how it would technically meet the requirements of the 
bylaw. He noted that identifying the tree removal count to those over 6 inch diameter was arbitrary 
and the regulation does not restrict the diameter.  He questioned how many trees were over the 8 
inch diameter which requires two replacement trees for each removed tree. He noted that if it was 
on the plan he had not had the time to review it. He was uncertain about replacing trees with shrubs 
as their value in function appear to be substantially different. He questioned if the Planning Board 
had reviewed and approved this plan as prior LCC request reviews have had problems with 
emergency vehicle turn around requirements. He noted the potential that adding a turnaround could 
also change the plan. He noted that he would like to be sure to see the final plan before taking a 
vote. 
 
TD noted the cart path that across the wetland is hard packed gravel and actually would result in 
very little disturbance to the wetland and indicated support of the plan. Despite the crossing of the 
wetland, where they have sighted the house actually would minimize the total disturbance on the 
esker. He noted that going further south on the esker would require grading that would be quite 
===PAGE 7===
severe and would be more detrimental to the stability of the esker despite not being within 50 feet of 
the wetland. He said based on the site walk his previous concern of a span is actually unnecessary 
and the site walk changed his original opinion and he fully supported the application as presented.   
 
RB felt that CL and JR eloquently described his concerns on the location of the house and felt the 
by-law requires the commission to see if there are other less impactful locations that could be 
determined that could eliminate the need for a waiver from the local by-law and that the house could 
be moved to a less sensitive location.. 
 
BP noted he agreed with TD and felt that this area proposed for the house was the least impacting 
and felt he was in favor of the proposal. He further noted there were two members that indicated a 
favorable outlook on the project and that TD was no longer going to be member of the commission 
as of tonight. He stated due to Mullens rules the applicant had two choices. The applicant could 
withdraw and reapply but notice of intent or declined to agree to a continuance and it could go to 
DEP for a potential lack of action. 
 
 
Joanne Magurn noted that she felt they have met the regulation requirements of multiple local 
agencies, have DEP approval, and could not understand what more they would need to do to have 
the commission approve it.  
 
BP said the Commission was within its rights to deny or approve the application, but to approve it 
they would have to grant a waiver. The applicant asked for clarification as to what constituted a 
majority. There was some discussion between the applicant and the Commission initiated by BP if 
four votes were required to pass this project?  Neil Gorman ask if less than four votes constituted a 
lack of action. BP noted in his opinion yes. He noted, stressing it was his opinion only, a three to two 
vote against the project was not a denial but a lack of action. Based on this discussion, the applicant 
expressed their preference would be to go for a lack of action as opposed to a continuance. 
 
 
RB made a motion to approve the application as submitted TD seconded. BP stated that in the case 
of a lack of action, the Town Bylaw would not apply. RB did not agree with the statement regarding 
the interpretation of a majority of votes. There was no further discussion. The Commission failed to 
pass the motion by a vote of PB and TD approved the motion. CL, JR and RB voted no on the 
motion.  .  
 
 
BP did note that the motion failed to pass however there was no denial at the same time. Based on 
his understanding.  
 
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by 
Solovei Trust for the constru ction of a driveway within the 100 foot buffer zone at 422 Mulpus Road. .  
 
Steve Marsden appeared before the commission representing the applicant.  
 
 
CL left the meeting at 10:00 PM and indicated his support of the proposal feeling it was straight 
forward.  
 
 
Mr Marsden described the current condition of the site, the proposed construction and its 
relationship to the wetlands. He noted the location of the driveway was based on sight distance 
requirements offset from a driveway abutting the property a cross the roadway. He outlined the 
proposed work and that the driveway was proposed to be paved in that it made a more stable 
surface then a gravel driveway which would also be considered an impervious surface.  
===PAGE 8===
 
RB asked if there was a diagram of the replacement for the existing pipe to ensure it could take a 
traffic load, Mr Marsden noted the pre-existing culvert has been time tested for heavy traffic and is in 
good condition and would remain. As there is no grade changes a headwall would not be necessary, 
RB noted that the site inspection showed the flows under the culvert was clean and did not indicate 
obstructions. 
 
 
TD noted the driveway may be in the 50 foot no structure zone and it was not shown.  He asked if 
the driveway could be moved. Mr Marsden noted that any change in configurations would result in 
extra disturbance. Leaving the current culver t in place would minimize any disturbance. The 
driveway site distance was also emphasized. JR asked if crushed stone may be a better alternative. 
Mr. Marsden noted that crushed stone would be pushed off in plowing resulting in an unstable 
surface and more maintenance in sensitive areas and the recharge trenches included in the design 
would mitigate runoff.TD moved to approve the plan as presented with a standard order of 
Conditions. JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
===PAGE 9===
ENFORCEMENT: 
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
MM was not available for discussion due to a power outage at his home and no ability to 
participate in the zoom forum due to lack of internet.  
NON 99 Ruth Street – update see above 
EO-32 Brookview Ave, Patricia Adams – received response 
EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) 
NON - 9 Valley Road- Working on NOI 
NON – 232 Burrage Street 
EO – 788 Page Street 
EO- 4 Townsend Harbor Road 
 
New Business – CH 61 A release request 360 Flatt Hill Road. The Commission examined the 
plans and decided that they would not pursue the purchase as they felt it would not meet the 
criteria the commission looked for. RB moved to allow the sale to proceed. TD seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously. 
 
Old Business – Town Warrant Follow-up discussion on transfer of stewardship from the town to the 
Conservation Commission of 111 Mulpus Road Rear and 970 New W. Townsend Road. 
 
The Commission reaffirmed the submitted warrant articles by a motion of RB noting the 
commission had previously discussed a list the commission voted on in a previous meeting 
and was not sure is was necessary but felt it was prudent to be cautious. The commission 
noted they were small parcels in sensitive habitat that were surrounded by conservation land. 
TD seconded and the commission vote unanimously to approve the motion by a roll call vote. 
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
Certificates of Compliance – None to present 
Extension Permit – none to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - August 19, 2020, September 2 & September 23, 2020 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Administrators determination – Emergency permit follow up 5 Spring St extension 
Enfacement investigation to go to the agenda 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies.  
 –Forestry Planning /Encroachment on town open space 
 Discussion on Land use policy and discussion of Saliba/ table rock management 
Communications  / public comment/ Adjourn - Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is October 21, 2020 at 7 PM 
 
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:28 PM by a motion of JR, a second by RB 
 and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Special note by the Conservation Commission ; THANK YOU TODD DWYER FOR ALL OF YOUR YEARS 
OF SERVICEON THE COMMISSION AND BEST WISHES ON YOU R TERM AS A SELECTMEN. 
 