===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche, Associate 
 
MINUTES 
April 21, 2021 
7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded and available for viewing over the Lunenburg Public Access You Tube Channel 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions 
of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This 
meeting will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the 
meeting. 
 
To Participate Remotely on Zoom members of the public may use cell phones, tablets or computers with audio 
and video capabilities. The Zoom Meeting ID is 844 0856 4373 
 
Town of Lunenburg is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. 
 
Topic: Conservation Commission 
Time: Apr 21, 2021 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
  
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84408564373 
  
Meeting ID: 844 0856 4373 
One tap mobile 
+19292056099,,84408564373# US (New York) 
+13017158592,,84408564373# US (Washington DC) 
  
Dial by your location 
        +1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
        +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) 
        +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
        +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
        +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
        888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
        877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 844 0856 4373 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kce4D4gLWX 
  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. All participants who are not members of the 
commission or staff will be muted by the chair. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to 
request to speak. To access the raise hand feature, open the participant list by clicking on participants. To 
 
raise your hand, click on the button at the bottom of the participant list. The chair will call on you and 
unmute you. Telephone audio users may dial star (*) 9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. 
Members of the public must give their name and address before they begin speaking. Please direct all 
comments to the chair. 
 
If you have trouble accessing zoom or have general questions you can send an email to 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com during the meeting. Emails containing questions or comments that are to be read 
aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name, address and phone number. 
 
Please be aware that if you are using video, other people will be able to see you and that anything that is 
broadcast will be recorded. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated 
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open 
Meeting Law. Each vote taken in this meeting will be conducted by roll call vote. 
 
Call to Order  
Announcements 
 
All members present except CL called to order at 7 PM by BP 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
 
Minutes of previous meetings –March 3 and March 17 2021 and April 7 2021 Minutes March 17- motion 
to approve by KJ and  a second by CC with a unanimous move to approve the motion.  
 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointment: 
    Hearing/Forum for the benefit of the public.  
      
The Lunenburg Conservation Commission, under authority granted by Massachusetts Gen eral Law Chapter 40, Section 8C, is 
revising the rules and regulations governing the use of Lunenburg land and waters under its care and control . The Conservation 
Commission will hold a public forum/hearing for considerations of revisions to commission land use policy. The supporting 
documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing 
a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled for April 21, 2021 at 7 PM 
 
BP reviewed the question and answer document that was posted on the commission web site. 
 
Andrea Adams asked what is geo chasing. BP Answered 
Bill Mish- volunteered to help with the site. Andrea Adams suggested putting a ,message on the 
conservation commission website. 
Andrea Laford fire arms possession permitted for only hunting on the 2 properties ? BP allows 
possession of firearms and cited an example of concealed carry. 
Jane Duvall asked if the area was open space not subject to commission control were fire arms 
allowed? BP noted there were no regulations on the BOS land and permission to discharge a 
firearm was allowed. It was also asked if the Hunting Hill parcel and the small town forest abut each 
other? BP noted no both parcels are abutting the Townsend parcels and it was noted that you would 
have to go through a private parcel to get to the two or around the Townsend parcel. She also 
reviewed the portion of the regulations concerning tree stands. She asked about how the process 
===PAGE 3===
would work if it was off hours from the office being opened. BP noted that the police had noted to 
him and MM during a meeting, the police will be enforce the regulations as well. It was also noted 
that the Environmental Police could also come down to enforce.  
Bob Walton of Whalom Road asked if the new regulations would prohibit the possession of 
firearms? The answer was not the possession just the use. He noted for various reasons for 
concealed carry and supported the commission allowing concealed carry. He also confirmed the two 
parcels that the commission were considering allowing hunting. He noted that he respected peoples 
right to hunt. He noted where he came from in New Jersey where hunting is prohibited, there were 
problems with deer populations  and felt adding the parcels was a good controlled method of 
allowing it.  
 
Todd Whittier of 519 Burrage Street. He noted the full page ad from the ledger that speaks to the 
non binding resolution and would the passing of that resolution then require the conservation 
commission to ban firearms as the petition states? BP noted that it is a non binding resolution and 
the sole authority under law to pass land use regulations. 
 
Katy Adams noted that the Regulations on possession and hunting be separated and be 2 separate 
topics as they are two substantially different things. She spoke to the citizens petition and that it is a 
method of what the towns people are trying to communicate. She also why we were working on the 
regulations now. 
 
JR explained that the commission has been working on the regulations for a long period of time. He 
noted that the communications on this matter reflect a 6 to1 ration against hunting. He compared the 
non binding resolution to an appeal on a commission ruling during normal process.  
Mark Bursch thanks the commission for all of their work. He noted that he had lived in town for over 
50 years and has hunted as a child on a number of conservation lands and asked why the original 
regulations in 2011 struck down hunting. BP noted that he cannot answer the question as research 
showed a lack minutes or other record  showing a hearing or a vote. Mr bursch asked if the 
commission had obtained other parcels since the regulations were in place, and BP noted yes there 
were other larger parcels obtained .  
 
Richard Bursch noted that the lack of documentation and noted in his research there was no 
mention of passing the regulations on any agendas or minutes or and there was only one mention of 
a draft set of regulations and cautioned  that there is nothing showing the regulations as exist were 
ever even voted on.  
 
Todd Whittier reiterated that the full page ad misrepresented the actual facts and that the hunting 
community wants their concerns represented. 
 
Jane Duvall noted that the part of the regulations that troubles her is that on the April 7 meeting that 
RB made a comment that all of the emails on the website file he did not see a compelling reason 
why the regulations should not pass and wondered why he made the comment. RB noted he didn’t 
want to go into another discussion and that he had elaborated on his reasons at the April 7 meeting 
and among those was that there were many other larger parcels of land that would not be open to 
hunting (17) that people could hike on. He also noted that many of the land that was private to 
hunters has been lost. He noted that the there are 250 licenses for hunting in town and there were 
110 emails and there was a lot of the townspeople that did not participate. 
 
JR pointed out that in addition to the properties owned by conservation commission, and there are 
other parcels not under control of the commission that were also under control. He reviewed data 
concerning hunting accidents. 
 
Andrea Adams based on her research she noted that the commission should be very wary of 
prohibiting possession and that state agencies do not prohibit possession. The two issues are 
distinct and separate. She noted that the regulations proposed were very specific and differentiated. 
She noted that the regulations would help to clarify this. BP noted that the commission did verify with 
town counsel and they have been vetted three or four times.  
Andrea Laford on Pleasant Street noted a comment about the number of hunters is a known 
===PAGE 4===
quantity and  versus the number of people who wrote emails objecting that number may not reflect. 
She noted that there are residents that live near the properties that would be affected. 
Tom Alonzo noted that if the current land use policy concerning firearms possession had been 
vetted by town counsel and the town has the ability to prohibit. He also noted that there was not an 
issue that brought out 100 people to write on in his experience in his tenure with the town. He also 
noted that he would argue that there are also other places outside of Lunenburg borders that would 
allow hunting that hunters could go to.  
Michelle Taylor 250 Howard Street feels there is no compelling reasons to increase firearms hunting 
and noted there was no evidence brought forward of over population and also noted that there was 
a subdivision at the Northwest town forest being proposed. 
 
Chris Martin at 981 Northfield Road had noted a lot of statistics presented at the meeting and 
wanted to know if there was any statistical information how many people use the hunting hill 
conservation area where there is hunting allowed and hikers and hunters and hikers apparently 
coexist? Bp noted that we have no data on who uses the conservation lands and that the 
commission has no control over the Hunting Hills area due to agreement with the state. 
Dennis Fortune on Robbs Hill Road noted that there are certain times of the year you can hunt and 
that deer season was limited. He noted that conservation lands are for everyone and everyone 
should be able to use the land for different purposes. 
 
Todd Whittier Noted he hunts on hunting hill and robs hill three seasons and his children also use 
the conservation area. He noted  response to Tom Alonzo’s comments that as a taxpayer why 
should he go out of town to use the lands.  
 
BP noted that the deliberations are scheduled father on down the agenda and noted that there may 
not be a final vote as the full membership was not present.  
 
JR asked if the Chairman was considering a vote without waiting for the town meeting? 
 
Bob Walton noted in response to JR is that one of the problems with the article was that it lumped 
possession and hunting and that the petition would not really guide the commission on both issues 
and that the resolution was non binding.  
 
Lynn Mann 463 Burrage Street agreed with bob Walton’s and Katy Adams Comment concerning the 
resolution.  
 
With no further public comments the chair closed the public hearing.  
 
  
Public Hearings 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing 
on a Notice of Intent by Bill Ferrebee will be held. Work proposed is the replacement of a septic system within 100-feet of a wetland 
resource area at 9 Boutwell Street. The supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. 
 
Doug Smith representing the applicants. He noted that it was an existing two bedroom home that 
has a septic that did not pass title V and that the system replacement was designed as was optimal 
due to limitations of the lot. He kept the design of the system within 44 feet from the wetland and 
noted that there was no work within the 30 foot no touch zone. RB asked if the system went before 
the Board of Health. Doug Smith noted that it has not completely went through the board of health 
process. PB recommended that we should continue the hearing until the Board of Health process 
was completed.  
 
Andrea Adams asked if the distance from the well was to prevent septage from, going to the well. 
Doug Smith noted that it was to meet the title V offset. 
 
A motion was made to continue to the May 5 meeting by RB and a second by KJ with a unanimous 
===PAGE 5===
motion to approve.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing 
on a Notice of Intent by Christopher and Suzanne DeGeorge will be held. Work proposed is improvement of access to Lake Shirley 
and control of erosion within 100-feet of a wetland resource area at 48 Pearl Street. 
 
Chris Anderson was present to represent the applicant. He oriented the commission to the site, the 
slopes of the land and the relation to the wetland (Lake Shirley) 
 
He noted that there is an elevated deck system to replace a portion of the stairs to alleviate the 
stated concerns as the stairs were in disrepair and was prohibitive to access the lake area. The 
concrete block area was slated to be replaced with a naturalize stone. He also noted that the 
retaining walls made of timber were decayed and would be replaced. The grading would be adjusted 
to allow for the controlling of erosion. He noted that upon completion of the work there would be 
stabilization of the site with grass. He noted that the applicant was requesting access to the area of 
the lake bed during drawdown due to the limitations on site of the steep slopes of the rear yard. He 
also noted that only small vehicles would be used. He did note that there was no DEP comment and 
that he would agree to a continuance if the commission wanted to walk the site.  
 
BP reviewed the photos that CL had sent to the file.  
 
JR asked MM for his input 
 
MM noted that his main concern was the removal of the trees and the severe erosion issues are 
intertwined and agreed with Mr. Andersons recommendations for the site walk and also stated that 
an arborist may be worth consulting? 
 
KJ noted that he agrees with the aide for a site walk and asked that the trees to be removed and 
replanted be marked and staked out. 
 
BP read CL’s remarks in writing into the record. (on file at commission office ) 
JV asked of sono tubes would be used for the stairs. Chris Anderson said yes sono tubes would be 
used. Mr Anderson noted that he would facilitate having an arborist report.  
KJ asked if any of the work would be prior to drawdown. Chris Anderson noted that the stairs and 
plantings can commence.  
 
BP asked if we could continue the hearing until May 19. The applicants agreed. 
RB moved to continue the hearing until May 19. KJ seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously by roll call vote. The site visit was set for May 15.  
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing 
on a Notice of Intent by MA Pleasant LLC will be held. Work proposed is construction of a six lot subdivision , Roadway, util ities and 
a proposed wetland crossing at 101 Pleasant Street 
 
MM noted that there is no DEP number issued currently. 
David Plunkett and Treavor Fletcher represented the applicant. Treavor Fletcher noted that the 
planning board hearing has not commenced and there is no comment received as of yet from the 
reviewing engineer. He explained the project proposal and the orientation to the wetland. He noted 
that the work was proposed to the limits of the 30 foot no touch zone. Out lined the specifics for the 
wetland crossing and replication. He outlined the methodologies of the stormwater system and its 
calculations. He out lined the locations of the main storm water basins and how they would operate. 
===PAGE 6===
JR asked if there was a stream running near the property and asked if there was riverfront. 
 
 MM clarified where the riverfront was. RB noted that there was a 2 to 1 replication rate required 
under local regulation. He also noted that a detail of the crossing and replication should be 
submitted. BP asked Mr. Plunkett if there was something he would want to say. He noted not at this 
time. 
 
 
BP noted as the process progresses they would like to see the area staked out for a site walk. RB 
noted that the commission should get the reviewer documentation from the reviewer. 
 
  
Andrea Laford on Pleasant Street noted the pond that was located on the property and wanted to 
know if the pond would be affected. The answer from Mr Fletcher was no. MM noted the comments 
from DPW on the commission application portal and that a copy of such was available for review by 
the commission. BP noted that pond was not marked clearly on the plan and asked if it would be 
added to the plans. Mr Fletcher noted that would not be an issue. 
 
Andrea Adams representing her mother Beatrice Adams noted she thought it was a very aggressive 
proposal for a parcel of property that has a lot of wetland issues and that there should be revisions 
to minimize site work and would be examining the site plans as the revisions come into play. She 
will submit further comment to MM and the applicant for distribution. RB asked of there was another 
complete set of plans on file or if there was a revision of layers that could be turned off to allow for 
specific attributes. He also asked if the wetland and buffer zones could be remarked in color. 
Mr Fletcher will provide a list of layers on the plans for the commission to review. 
 
The meeting was continued to the 19th of May by a motion by RB and A Second by CC with a 
numinous vote to approve the motion. 
 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS  
 
   Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing     
   on a Request for a Determination of Applicability for work at 73 Peninsula Drive by Daniel Murphy will be held. Work prop osed is the  
   removal of trees within the buffer zone. 
 
Dan Murphy representing himself. His proposal is to take down trees on his lot and he is worried that 
they may come down for his house and the neighbors. He noted that there was no sun on the yard.  
JR noted that he felt not all of the trees not come down and felt that there was a need to call in an 
arborist . 
 
JV felt that only 4 or 5 trees could come down and noted that the removal of all of the trees would 
leave a gap of trees along the shoreline. 
  
JV shared picture of the site with the commission. Mr. Murphy offered a site walk to the commission.  
RB moved to continue the meeting to May 19. JV seconded and the commission voted unanimously 
to approve the motion by roll call vote.  
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and Under Lunenburg Protective By Law chapter 335, the Lunenburg Conservation 
Commission will hold a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Cynthia Ritchie for work at 137 Flynn Road to build a natural stone 
wall along the waterfront to protect against future erosion of the edges of the land and beach.  
 
Continued to May 5 by a motion of RB and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve the 
motion by roll call vote. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and Under Lunenburg Protective By Law chapter 335, the Lunenburg Conservation 
Commission will hold a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Empire Management Corp for work at 757 Chase Road for the 
demolition and reconstruction of a Commercial building with gradin g and parking 
 
Continued to the May 5 meeting by a motion of KJ and a second by CC with a unanimous roll call 
vote to approve the motion.  
 
 
Under Lunenburg Protective By Law chapter 335, the Lunenburg Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing for a Notice of      
   Intent by Joann Magurn for work at 238 Fire Road 16 for the construction of a single family home with a drive way crossing.  
 
Brian Butler, Joann and Butch Magurn present to represent.  
 
Magurn 238 Fire Road 16 
 
Mr Butler noted that the Superseding Order of conditions was issued and he reviewed the contents 
of the superseding order of conditions. He noted that the DEP had issued essentially a standard 
superseding Order of Conditions.  
 
RB had recalled asking about the retaining walls and noted a colored update he sent to the meeting 
binder illustrating the retaining walls . He reviewed the colored drawing with the commission. He 
noted areas of substantial filling within the 30 foot no touch zone. He noted the commission has 
been consistent in previous filings concerning work within the 30 and 50 foot zones and noted that 
the retaining walls and the fills would violate the wetlands by law.  
 
Mr Butler noted that the walls were in proximity to the flood plain and would ask for a variance. He 
noted the wall was in place to allow for the sloping for the garage. He noted that the wall on the 
other side could be removed. Butch Magurn noted that the east site is necessary and the west side 
he has no issues removing.  
 
JR noted that he and CL walked the site again and that the drive way will cut into the top of the 
esker and noted that some of the trimming had begun and wondered why it had been done. He 
noted that the docks are not on the plan. He asked of a coupe of members could come down to the 
site so he can show them the site. He was also concerned that there would be a return visit by a 
future owner and that there could be more of the trees to asked be removed.  He noted that the 
alternative site would have the same amount of material removed. He also asked why there was a 
refusal to not subdivide. He also noted that the alternative looks like a good site for a potential 
subdivided lot. He also noted that there was a comment made at the last meeting by the applicant 
for the full board to be present.  
 
JV had walked the site and noted he is familiar with the lot and asked if the wall to the east could be 
eliminated or moved further back? Butch Magurn noted that it is possible. Butch Magurn noted that 
the fire department recommendations on the driveway width is not a mandated requirement. 
RB asked that an updated plan be drawn reflecting the walls so it could be referenced as a condition 
of approval.  
 
Brian Butler addressed JR’s comment about the grading between the two alternatives and that 
contrary to his comment there was a high order of magnitude of grading volume and that the 
alternative would require substantially more earth work. 
 
Based on a comment from JR. Mr Butler outlined the snow removal of the driveway. JR was 
concerned that there could be flooding out. JR noted that he felt there was a potential to 1000 trees 
to be removed. He was counting very small diameter trees. Mr Butler noted there was no mature 
trees that were proposed to be removed. He disputed the number that Mr. Rabbitt out forth. Butch 
Magurn noted that there was no proposed tree removal along the driveway and it has been that way 
through the entire process for the last year. He felt it was inappropriate for past issues that have 
been address to be repeatedly drawn up . 
 
===PAGE 8===
A motion was made to continue the meeting pending a revised plan showing the wing walls removed 
and the hay bales on east side moved up to demarcate a limit of work. JR seconded. The 
Commission voted to approve the motion to continue to the May 5 meeting by roll call vote. Joann 
Magurn noted that they would not be willing to make further changes to the plan after the wing walls 
are modified and that as previously stated the docks will be considered in the future as a future filing 
after the completed construction.  
 
 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
 
90 Ruth Street- second letter will be sent with a potential fine 
9 valley to be removed 
615 Townsend Street – compliant with timelines 
48 Oak Ridge Letter to be sent due to non response 
205 Arbor- Still awaiting to hear back from DEP 
Mass Ave Highway project- MM still trying to communicate with DOT 
Crawford Street OOC- MM noted that the work is going to be starting this season 
 70 Oak Ridge- MM had reviewed a draft as built that the engineering crew is finalizing an it appears 
that the work is compliant with the OOC. 
 
 
    Old Business- Deliberation of land use policy 
 
RB motioned to approve the final draft of the land use policy as submitted with the revised land use 
permit by MM. JV seconded. JR noted the comments and that 61 comments were against the 
hunting and that there was an ad in the ledger with 110 signatures is against and that there is a non-
binding resolution pending for town meeting and that the particular base of people are the users of 
the land. 
 
It was clarified that BP had stated that the trails grant would fund 150 land signs and that the land 
use regulations passed would dictate the contents of the signage.  
 
CC is not comfortable with voting without CC present and that she would like to wait to hear the 
debate on the town meeting and would like to set the vote for May 5.  
 
JV noted that there is a current motion on the floor. 
 
KJ noted that having a full board to vote on the motion is important and that he may be working May 
5 and at what point are we going to vote. He felt that town meeting would likely result in the same 
statements that have been already made.  
 
RB noted that we have 6 members here and that if there were 4 votes in favor that it would not 
change the result if CL was here or not.  
 
Andrea Adams had a question for the commission and given covid and the use of zoom and asked if 
the remote participation by zoom would allow phone? BP noted yes. 
 
ML noted that he was more of a process person and noted that to hear everyone’s opinion would 
make the commission seems more transparent? He noted that CL could be reached potentially by 
phone.  
 
The vote was KJ CC JR no and RB JV and BP yes ..the motion failed and would be taken up again 
on the 5th of May.  
===PAGE 9===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New Business 
 
BP met with the residents at old stage coach road and they noted they want the gate to be placed in 
a manner that would stop any turn around on the residents driveway 
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
Certificates of Compliance 
Extension Permit – 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Administrator’s determination –  
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
 Forestry Planning /Encroachment on town open space ( draft plan discussion) Update on Rayno/Hollis 
Communications / public comment 
Adjourn 
Motion to adjourn by CC a second by JR and a unanimous vote by roll call vote.  
 
The meeting adjourned at 10: 45 PM 
 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is May 5, 2021 at 7PM
===PAGE 10===
 