===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
 
Oct 20, 2021 
7:00 PM . 
minutes 
 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised 
that this meeting is being Audio/Video Recorded. The agenda lists all the topics 
which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed 
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
This meeting of the Conservation Commission will be held by Zoom at the Link 
provided on this notice.  
 
 
ZOOM INFORMATION: 
Town of Lunenburg is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. 
 
Topic: Conservation Commission 
Time: Oct 20, 2021 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
 
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7663167607 
 
Meeting ID: 766 316 7607 
One tap mobile 
+19292056099,,7663167607# US (New York) 
+13017158592,,7663167607# US (Washington DC) 
 
Dial by your location 
+1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
+1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) 
+1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
+1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
+1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
+1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 766 316 7607 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/keEQiMHAD5 
===PAGE 2===
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. 
 
Meeting called to Order at 7 PM by Chairman Pease with all present except PA. 
Minutes of previous meetings –September 1 and Sept 15, 2021Both sets of minutes were approved by roll 
call vote. 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM  
 
 
 
 
1. Hudson 90 Hemlock – Touch up Beach with sand. 
 
June Hudson appeared to represent herself.  The plan was reviewed by the membership. Bill 
Hudson noted that the amount was about 5 Cubic Yards. JR asked what would be done to stop the 
erosion in the future. June Hudson Noted that there is edging in place to prevent that in the future.  
JR and BP noted that the sand was 2 inches . RB noted that if much of the beach was grown over, 
restoring he was not in favor of restoring the entire beach however, a portion may be ok to do. BP 
noted that the entire area was there was still there, but the beach had degraded. JR did note that 
the beach still does exist based on his last site visit. JV n oted that if the beach was already in 
existence, then he felt there was a pre -existing right to restore the beach. He would be against a 
new beach, Mr Hudson noted that by wetland flag a -5 on the plan, there was no sand as there is a 
walkway and that area would not have sand placed in that area, John Fortune of 50 Hemlock noted 
that there is grass by the walk and the beach is a little smaller, so the beach area was a little 
smaller than was formerly marked on the plan. Mrs. Hudson confirmed there was an exp ansion of 
the grass area that shrank the beach down.  BP requested a certain number of yards for the beach  
he would entertain in the motion. JR moved to approve a field change to allow 9 yards of sand. JV 
seconded. The motion was passed by BP, JV, JR, ML and CC with RB abstained.  
 
2. 30 Laurel Lane- Field change adding a shed 70 feet from edge of wetland.  
Anthony Jordan appeared before the commission for the  request for a field change. The location of 
the shed was examined by the Conservation Commission. It was noted that the Shed was 
supposed to be 70 feet away. RB examined and noted that there was a potential discrepancy in the 
measurement. MM noted he may not have accounted for the side wetland. A  Motion was made by 
JV to allow a shed at 70 feet from t he wetland. CC seconded and the commission unanimously 
approved the motion.  
 
3. Gerry- Field change 36 Peninsula Dr. : 
Steve Marsden reviewed the plan changes with the commission. He noted the items originally 
approved that was previously approved within the  buffer zone and that the change totaled 1,120 
square feet proposed reduction in impervious.  He noted the reason for the change was to allow a 
family member with ADA requirement to have some accommodation. BP reviewed the patio stone 
to be used in the new proposal. RB noted that there may be a variance required for the work within 
the 50 foot and may require closer examination. Mr. Marsden noted that proposed versus what is 
approved was a reduction in impervious. JR reviewed the areas  of pre-existing, existing and 
proposed. Mr. Marsden’s calculations were reviewed from his Letter. A polli ng of members 
indicated the members wanted more information. It was decided by the members to review the 
information and will review at a future meeting for further detail.  
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
4. Hickory hills Lake Annual presentation. 
John Fortune from 50 Hemlock Drive appeared before the commission for the discussion for the 2021 drawdown 
request. He reviewed the condition form the original Order of Conditions with the Conservation Commission for the 
drawdown thresholds. Mr. Fortune reviewed the spillway work accomplished to stabilize the spillway. He reviewed 
the biomass removed and further erosion control efforts. He also reviewed the copper sulfate treatment and the 
water quality testing. RB asked if there any number that shows excess Phosphorus and asked if there was any 
data showed phosphate. Preexisting phosphate numbers will be submitted. RB asked about fanwort management. 
Mr Fortune noted there was a reduction however there were a large number that were hand harvested. He noted 
that hand pulling versus chemical treatment is being evaluated. RB asked if the fanwort found was widely 
disbursed or in certain areas. Mr. Fortune noted the areas where dashing had not occurred there were more 
concentrated. MM reviewed the Algae bloom numbers. JR moved to approve the 4 foot drawdown for 2021. ML 
seconded. The Commission unanimously approved the motion by roll call vote.  
                  
Public Hearing 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on  
a Request for a Determination by Matthew Butterworth for the placement of a shed within the buffer zone at 188 Whalom road. 
 
Matthew Butterworth was present to represent himself. He reviewed the area of the shed. RB asked of the shed can be moved closer 
to the house. JR asked if the length could be reduced 2 feet to bring the corner out of the 30 foot zone. MM and ML recounted the site 
visit and spoke to replanting a maple tree closer to the wetland area . ML noted he felt the area suggested may be the only area it could 
be built. Both agreed with JR that further measurement onsite is likely a good idea. BP noted that the shed size could be examined and 
the shed could be moved closer to the retaining wall. RB noted that the shed could be moved to ensure it conforms as much as 
possible. He noted prior encroachment to the site with the former garage addition. Mr. Butterworth revi ewed square footage of the 
shed and what could be placed  on the lot. The Commission continued to the November 3 meeting by a motion of JR and a second by 
RB with a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town  of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public  
hearing on a Request for a Determination by Randy and Jacqueline Leblanc for the placement of a shed within the buffer zone 
at 1390 Lancaster Ave. 
 
MM and ML reviewed the site inspection and noted that there would be three trees would be removed, The 3 trees are 96 feet 
from the edge of the wetland. Two of the three trees are out of the buffer zone and the area between the work and the wetland 
remaining is grass lawn. RB noted that the 30, 50 and 100 foot buffer zone should be marked on the plan for future r eference.  
 
A motion for a negative determination was m ade with the condition that the p lan be revised to add the 30 foot no disturbance, 
50 foot no structure and the erosion protection be added by RB with a second by JR and a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public  
hearing on a Request for a  Determination by Bryan miner for the  demolition of a screened in section of a single family home  
with an re-building if an addition within the buffer zone at 35 Peninsula Drive. 
 
Bryan Miner was present to represent himself. Existing conditions and proposed co nditions were reviewed. MM reviewed his 
site visit. BP noted that an on the ground field measurement should be done. MM agreed  and would like to have more 
commissioners on site. A motion was made to continue to November 3, 2021  by a motion of RB and a second by JV with a 
unanimous vote to approve the motion. 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a Request for a Determination by Ray Clouthier the reconstruction of an existing foot path and the placement of a temporary s creen 
house within the buffer zone at 37 Pearl Street. 
 
Ray Clouthier was present to represent himself. MM noted the graveled area that was removed, originally intended for a screen house 
that will no be temporary. RB noted that the interior retaining wall shown in the pictures were not detailed on the plan and requested 
that it be added to the plans to show exact location and how far  within the 30 or 50 foot zones it is. He also noted there was not 
sufficient evidence presented that the walk way was pre -existing. Continued to November 3, 2021 to show more detail on a pre -
existing wall and what is new by RB and a second by ML with a unanimous vote to approve.  
===PAGE 4===
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a Notice of intent by Paula Valente  for the demolition and reconstruction of an existing single family  home with septic upgrade, within 
the buffer zone at 30 Johnson Street. 
 
Chris Mackenzie was present to represent the applicant. It was noted that the hearing was continued for the purposes of obtai ning a 
DEP number. RB examined the location of the proposed deck within the 50 foot no touch zone. A motion was made by RB to approve 
an Order of Conditions with the added condition  the underside of the deck as shown on the plans not be made impervious. ML 
seconded and the commission voted unanimously by roll call vote to approve the motion.  
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and Under Lunenburg Protective By Law chapter 335, the Lunenburg Conservation  
Commission will hold a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Cynthia Ritchie for work at 137 Flynn Road to build a natural stone wall 
along the waterfront to protect against future erosion of the edges of the land and beach. 
 
Cynthia Ritchie was present . The reason for the continuance was to await the issuance of a DEP number ,  
which was completed between meetings. With no further questions, the commission issued an Order of 
Conditions by a motion of JV and a second by JR with a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing 
on a Notice of Intent by Christopher and Suzanne DeGeorge will be held. Work proposed is improvement of access to Lake Shirley 
and control of erosion within 100-feet of a wetland resource area at 48 Pearl Street. 
 
Suzanne DeGeorge was present and highlighted the changes made on the pans and the details as requested by the commission. Wit h 
no further concerns, the commission issued an order of Conditions by a motion of JV and a second by CC with a unanimous vote by 
the Commission to approve the motion.  
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public meeting on a request for a Notice of Intent by Proctor Masonry for work at 203  Fire 
Road 16 for the construction of replacement retaining walls and the removal of trees affecting the current wall structure. 
 
The hearing was continued to the November 3, 2021 meeting by a motion of RB and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to 
approve the motion.  
 
To be continued to November 3, 2021 per applicants request. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing 
on a Notice of Intent by MA Pleasant LLC will be held. Work proposed is construction of a six lot subdivision, Roadway, utilities and a 
proposed wetland crossing at 101 Pleasant Street. 
 
The hearing was continued to the November 3, 20921 meeting by a motion of RB and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to 
approve the motion.
===PAGE 5===
NEW BUSINESS - 
 
Old Business- review of encroachment onto all conservation properties using the assessors ortho 
photographs. 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
 
Leominster Road- NOI by the town in process.  
NON 48 Oak Ridge – With Town Counsel 
EO 205 Arbor Street 
 NON 23 Cove Road – Working with DPW And owner. Some remedial work completed.  
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. BP noted that there is an extension request under 
consideration.  
 
Certificates of Compliance 
 
Extension Permit – 141 Hemlock Drive – The Commission voted to issue a 3 Year Extension by 
motion of JV and a second by ML with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 Committee Reports – Any Update 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination-  
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
Communications / public comment 
Adjourn- The meeting was adjourned at 10:15 PM by a motion of JV and a second by CC with a 
unanimous vote to approve.  
 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is November 3, 2021 at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 