===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche, Associate 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING- EXECUTIVE SESSION 
May 19, 2021 
6:30 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this is an 
executive session and as such is not open to the public 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions 
of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  
 
    
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated 
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open 
Meeting Law. Each vote taken in this meeting will be conducted by roll call vote. 
 
 
 
 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order : 
  
Executive Session: Under MGL. c.30A, Sec. 21(a) The Conservation Commission shall go into 
executive session at 6:30  PM after opening the public meeting for the following purpose: 
 
To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public 
body. 
 
Pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to litigation 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares (192 Townsend Harbor Road) 
 
 
The Conservation Commission will convene for the public session, scheduled for May 19, 
2021 at 7 PM at the conclusion of this executive session. 