===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Jeffrey Viviano Clerk  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson  Nadia Madden, 
Richard Tremblay        Conservation Administrator 
 
September 21, 2022 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: MW (Acting Chair), JV, CC, ML, RT 
Absent: BP, RB  
Also: NM 
 
AGENDA
Call to Order at 7pm 
Announcements:  
MACC fall conference will be held in Devens on Saturday Oct 15. Commissioners should contact NM if 
they want to attend. 
North County Land Trust will be holding a CR monitoring walk at the Hawes-Moore/Mooz property at 
9am on Weds Oct 26.  Commissioners should contact NM if they want to attend. 
Public Comment: no comments were made. 
Minutes of previous meetings – September 7, 2022 
JV/ML M/S to approve as drafted.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Carol Gaudet for the replacement of a septic system at 290 
New West Townsend Road. 
 
Doug Smith of Soilsmith Designs presented the plan, which is a replacement septic system outside of the 50’ 
wetlands buffer.  Three trees will be cut outside the 30’ wetlands buffer.  JV asked if there had been a site 
walk, which MW confirmed was on 9.17.22.   The Commission reviewed the Lunenburg wetlands bylaw 
section 10.4.1 on vegetation removal and replacement. 
 
JV/ML M/S to approve the application with a standard order of conditions.  Roll call vote, unanimous 
to approve. 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Nicholas Pirro for reseeding and 
associated grading within a wetlands area at 408 Electric Avenue. 
Maryann Dipinto from three oaks environmental presented the updated plan with the isolated edge of wetlands 
added to the plan along with the existing catch basin.  MW asked about grading, MD explained that it was 
required to remove glass and other debris in the soil.  Gravel will be placed around the building.  JV asked if 
further work was planned for the driveway and MD explained that the driveway is an exisiting structure.  MW 
asked that the driveway and the location of the grindings and gravel be added to the plan and that loam and 
seed be added to the right hand side of the property.  
 
ML/RT M/S to continue to October 5th. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Brian Haas for the paving of a 
driveway at 509 Townsend Harbor Road.  
NM has spoken to the engineer at Hannigan who is making the plan requested by the ConsComm, it is not 
quite ready to stamp and sign and the applicant Brian Haas requested to continue the application to October 
5th. 
 
ML/JV M/S to continue the meeting to October 5th.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Christian and Allison Martin for the demolition and 
construction of a single family home and garage at 127 Chase Road. 
David Sadowski asked if the house could be demolished under an emergency order.  MW asked if there was 
an imminent danger for the house falling down at this time, which caught on fire in January. 
 
ML/CC M/S to continue the meeting to October 5th.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP # 208-1271)by Ryan Proctor for the demolition and 
construction of a single family home and driveway, reconstruction of retaining walls, and the installation of a 
new dock at 451 Townsend Harbor Road. 
 
ML recused himself from the hearing due to a personal relationship with the applicant. 
 
Greg Roy introduced himself and Ryan Proctor from Dillis and Roy representing the applicants.  NM shared 
an updated plan signed on 9.14.22.  Per the comments from DEP, there will be no work along the shoreline 
and there will be a sloped stone embankment instead of a retaining wall along the bank.   The new house has 
been moved almost completely outside the 30’ buffer.  There are 2 trees within the 30’ buffer that will be 
removed and replaced with 3 2” caliper trees, along with 3 trees outside the 30’ buffer that will be replaced 
with 5 2” caliper trees.  MW asked if the plan would need to be revised again after this meeting, and GR 
shared a new updated plan signed on 9.19.22.   JV asked why DEP required the removal of the retaining wall 
at the shoreline and GR explained that DEP was now requiring a habitat study for work that impacted more 
than 10% of the shoreline. 
 
JV/RT moved to approve the application and revised plan from 9.19.22 with a standard order of 
conditions.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve (ML recused). 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP # 208-1262) by Ed McSweeney for the Construction of a 
single family home, garage and driveway at lot 3 Holman St.  
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
 
Valorie Sibley-Daigle from Northland Engineers and Mary-Ann Depinto from Three Oaks Environmental 
represented the applicant.  VS presented the updated plan stamped and signed on 8.31.22 with the driveway 
relocated outside the 50’ no structure wetlands buffer and the limit of work outside the 30’ no touch zone. 
 
JV/ML M/S to approve the application and the revised plan dated 8.31.22 with a standard order of 
conditions.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP # 208-1264) by Ed McSweeney for the Construction of a 
single family home, garage and driveway at lot 4 Holman St. 
 
VS presented the updated plan from 8.31.22 with the updated driveway.  The shared driveway has been 
relocated outside the 50’ no structure wetlands buffer and the limit of work outside the 30’ no touch zone. 
 
JV/ML M/S to approve the application and the revised plan dated 8.31.22 with a standard order of 
conditions.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
LSIC – Floating Mats 
NM explained that LSIC is planning to remove some floating mats of peat moss that are in the lake that need 
to be taken ashore.  JV commented that the mats are up to 12’ across and they appear to be a hazard for boats 
so they will need to be taken to shore. 
 
Girl Scouts – bench project and articles 
MW said that some local girl scouts troops have done a fundraiser with Trex and were granted a bench which 
they would like to propose installing on Conservation property.  They will be approaching the commission to 
present a proposal soon.  Girl Scouts are also interested in writing articles about conservation areas for the 
Lunenburg Ledger.  MW asked if any commission members are interested in partnering with the Girl Scouts. 
 
 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
192 Townsend Harbor Road 
104 Woodland Drive: The current owner is Geraldo DeSouza.  His neighbor at 100 Woodland Drive has 
offered to reach out to him about the encroachment. 
116 Woodland Drive 
100 Woodland Drive 
NM presented photos from a site visit to the property, which the owner has brought into compliance by 
removing prior encroachments.  
RT/ML M/S to accept the remediation for encroachment issues at 100 Woodland Drive.  Roll call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
Update on maintenance work, reimbursement:  ML said the town has received 3 quotes for the replacement of 
windows at 123 Hollis Road.  The lawnmower has also been fixed. 
 
Vote on fencing quote: ML said that the lowest quote which the town has an account for is Home Depot, it 
will cost $944.63 to purchase needed supplies to fence the pollinator habitat and trees. 
ML/RT M/S to approve $944.63 from Hollis Road revolving fund to purchase fencing supplies at Home 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
Depot.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Caretaker contract: NM said that the 2018-2021 contract has ended but is continuing per contract terms as a 
month-to-month contract, and that chair BP may have further feedback onto why the contract has not been 
extended. 
 
Certificate of Compliance: 
100 Woodland Drive: NM said that there are two outstanding orders of conditions on 100 Woodland Drive, 
DEP 208-195 for the septic system which is completed and has a letter confirming compliance with the 
original plans from the engineer. 
JV/ML M/S to approve certificate of compliance for OOC DEP# 208-195. Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
NM said that the other order of conditions, DEP# 208-681, is for a garage and other site work that was never 
started by the previous owner. 
JV/CC M/S to approve certificate of compliance for OOC DEP# 208-681, noting that the work approved 
was not started by the owner.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Administrative Determination: 
20 Fire Road 19 – tree cutting.  NM explained that the homeowner wants to cut two trees—2 are dead and 
dying, 1 is entangled with the utility line.  NM recommended an administrative determination to cut the three 
trees and replace 1 tree (<8” diameter).  JV recommended replacement with a 2-inch caliper oak or maple near 
the water to replace shade. 
JV/ML M/S to approve administrative determination.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
NON 48 Oak Ridge 
NON 54 Pine Grove 
NON 23 Cove Road 
NON 336 Arbor St 
 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: NM shared an email from Marsha Beers. They are waiting on an engineered 
plan. 
 
NON 691 Chase Road  NM to issue a letter of non-compliance for the property requesting an RDA for the 
work already performed in the buffer. 
 
EO 75 West Street 
Rachel Kozacka from 75 West Street presented images of from the site work removing the dirt, re-seeding 
with slope mix, adding straw and planting with blueberry bushes. 
 
EO 411 Goodrich St 
David Blatt said he is waiting on Dillis and Roy to get back to him with a plan.  DB has removed some 
broken concrete to the left of the driveway and said he will send pictures to NM. 
 
EO 615 Townsend Street 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
 
Howard Street Driveway:  Dillis and Roy has completed the plan, it is currently being reviewed by DPW. 
Update on trails grant – All grant paperwork completed. 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   
 
  
Committee Reports – Any Update  
Stormwater Committee – official vote needed to appoint him the Stormwater Committee 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve (RT abstained) 
 
Communications /Public comment 
 
JV/ML M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourned at 9:03 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is October 5, 2022 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 