===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Jeffrey Viviano Clerk  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Patricia Adams 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson  Nadia Madden, 
Richard Tremblay        Conservation Administrator 
September 7 2022  
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
 
                                     ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Present: MW (acting chair), ML, RT, JV, CC 
Absent: BP, RB 
Also Present: NM (administrator) 
 
MW called the meeting to order at 7pm 
Public Comment:  
Peter Cowley from 72 Peninsula presented their request for a funded organization permit for Owl Prowl, a 
walk on the Lane property on 9/8, which will ask for voluntary donations of $10 for the walk.  He requested 
a waiver of the insurance liability requirement for the event. 
JV/CC M/S to approve the permit application as submitted.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve (4 
for, RT abstained due to technical difficulties) 
Minutes of previous meetings – August 17, 2022 
JV/CC M/S to approve the minutes.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 7pm:  
 
Volunteer: Sam Welch is a new volunteer for the Conservation Commission.  He is a member of Mass 
Audobon and the Turn Society, and is moving back to Lunenburg after living elsewhere to live near Table 
Rock.  MW thanked him and told him the Commission looks forward to working with him. 
 
Volunteer: Sean Patrick Terry is an Eagle Scout proposing to restore and clean up Clark Hill.  He will lead a 
team of scouts to clean up the trails, restore the benches, restore the kiosk, and replace the trail signs, and 
spread gravel at the parking area to make it more obvious.  MW asked how he intends to raise funds for the 
project.  ST said that the scouts already have enough funds raised for the project.  MW also recommended that 
he not rake leaves on the hilly parts of the trail as they help prevent erosion and asked if he would be willing to 
install the trail intersection markers made for the trail.  SP said he would be happy to install the signs or other 
work needed by the Commission. Greg Roy from Dillis and Roy said they would be happy to contribute funds 
to the project if needed. 
ML/CC M/S to approve the project on Clarks Hill.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
NEW PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Gregory S. Roy for a sewer 
extension at 4 Kimball Street.  
 
Caitie Childs asked to recuse herself as she is an abutter to the property. 
 
Greg Roy from Dillis and Roy introduced himself as the representative for the property owners.  The property 
is being tied into the sewer in the street across from the town beach. 
ML/RT M/S to approve the project with a negative #3 determination.  Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. (CC recused). 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Christian and Allison Martin for the demolition and 
construction of a single family home and garage at 127 Chase Road. 
David Sadowski is representing the property owners, the house is being demolished and replaced.  All work is 
within the existing house footprint, the closest approach will be 81’ from the water and 12” straw wattles will 
be used to prevent downhill erosion.  DEP has not yet issued a number for the project.  ML asked if MM is 
allowed to work on the project as he was recently employed by the town.  MW asked NM to research this 
before the next meeting. 
ML/JV M/S to continue the meeting to Sept 21. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Ryan Proctor for the demolition and construction of a single 
family home and driveway, reconstruction of retaining walls, and the installation of a new dock at 451 
Townsend Harbor Road. 
 
ML recused himself as the property owner is a personal friend. 
 
Greg Roy from Dillis and Roy introduced himself as the representative for the property owners.  The existing 
house is near the lake.  The applicant wants to demolish the existing house and move it back from the water so 
that it is further outside the 30’ no-disturb zone.  There will be a decrease of 265 sq ft in the 30’ buffer and an 
increase of 255 square feet in the 50’ no structure zone.  There will also be a seasonal removable dock and the 
retaining wall will be installed 2 feet in from the water providing compensatory storage.  DEP has not yet 
issued a number for the project.  MW asked to see the existing house size and asked why the 8” maple is being 
removed.  Jeff said the Conscomm does not typically approve new walls but it might be hard to get 
compensatory storage without it. 
 
Brett Ramsden is a stone wall installer and he said that new walls are occasionally added to the shoreline at the 
45 degree angle and approved by the Commission. 
 
GR requested a continuance to address the comments of the Commission. 
 
JV/CC M/S to continue until September 21.   Roll call vote, unanimous to approve (ML recused) 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Andrew Leblanc for repair and 
construction of retaining walls on Hickory Hills Lake at 362 Townsend Harbor Road. 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
 
Brett Ramsden presented an undated plan with the 30’ and 50’ buffer from the lake and described the walls in 
greater detail.  MW asked if the current wall next to the lake is being extended.  BR said that the wall will be 
extended about 7 feet to prevent further erosion into the lake. 
 
JV/ML moved to make a negative determination #3 for the project.   Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Nicholas Pirro for reseeding and 
associated grading within a wetlands area at 408 Electric Avenue. 
 
ML/JV M/S to continue to September 21st. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Brian Haas for the paving of a 
driveway at 509 Townsend Harbor Road.  
 
NM said that the applicant has requested to continue as the engineers have not yet completed the plan 
requested by the Conservation Commission. 
ML/CC M/S to continue to September 21st. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
Abutter Sue Patrelia asked why the plan was not ready, as the survey has been completed.  MW explained 
that the Commission had requested the plan be made detailing the changes on the lot, and that the work to 
complete the plan was currently in progress. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Marsden Engineering for replacement of a septic system and 
installation of a recharge trench within the 100’wetlands buffer at 37 Spring Street. 
 
Steve Marsden shared his updated plan including the drainage swale.   The DEP has issued a file #208-1270. 
 
JV/ML M/S to approve the project as designed with a standard order of conditions.  Roll call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP # 208-1265) by Fitchburg Land property Owner LLC to construct a 
367,000 square foot warehouse and distribution facility with parking and storm water controls at 260 
Fahlulah Road. 
ML/JV M/S to continue to October 5th. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
Election of Officers (If all members participate) 
Budgets for revolving funds 
Advertising fees and billing 
 
CC/ML M/S to have applicants pay advertising fees directly to the papers. Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
Event Permit Request: Owl Prowl approved earlier in the meeting 
 
ZBA-Comments on Pond View Commons 40B.  No comments from the Conservation Commission. 
ML noted that the site is on an ACEC (NM to look up the correct name) and that this information should be 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
communicated to the ZBA. 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting. 
 
Parcel III Sunny Hill Road: discussed right of first refusal.  Will discuss at next meeting when Bob and Rich 
are present. 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
192 Townsend Harbor Road 
104 Woodland Drive 
116 Woodland Drive 
 
Reply from 100 Woodland Drive, site walk will be on 9/17/22. 
192 Townsend Harbor Road – Katurnia property work is underway 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
ML said there are 2 bids so far for the maintenance work, all bids are due on 9/22 for the windows. 
Still getting numbers for replacement of countertops and cabinets. 
Water tank for pollinator habitat – the team is requesting a 250 gallon tank to water the habitat, there is a quote 
for $100 for a used tank from Facebook Marketplace and $20 for cinderblocks. 
ML/JV M/S to approve $100 to purchase a used water tank for the pollinator habitat and $20 for 8 
cinderblocks for the water tank. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
The pollinator habitat is also requesting approximately $900 of fencing for posts and ties to protect bushes and 
trees from being eaten by deer.  ML will provide quotes from online vendors, and also from MAKI.  
 
An exterminator is needed at 123 Hollis Road. Ransford Environmental has quoted a 1 year plan for $495, 
$160 per treatment.  NM to see if there are any issues with setting up a contract or if a bid process is needed at 
this level. 
ML/RT Moved to approve the $495 Ransford quote.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings)      
NON 48 Oak Ridge 
NON 54 Pine Grove 
NON 23 Cove Road 
NON 336 Arbor St 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot. NM to reach out and ask them to attend the next ConsComm meeting on 9/21. 
EO 411 Goodrich St – David Blatt is putting together a plan to submit to the Commission, MW requested 
that  NM have him give a submission  
EO 615 Townsend Street—Berm is fully in place 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
Update on trails grant – All grant paperwork completed. 
Request for approval of $700 Purchase Order to SmartSign from Timber Rights Fund. 
 
ML/CC M/S to approve a $700 purchase order for signs from SmartSign from the Timber Rights 
Revolving Fund.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   
 
Stormwater Committee – LCC rep needed 
RT volunteered to join the Stormwater Committee as the LCC representative , NM to inform the committee 
and have them reach out to RT about their meetings. 
 
Communications /Public comment
JV/ML M/S to adjourn the meeting.  Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
Adjourned at 10:08 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is September 21, 2022 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 