===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel:  (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Jeffrey Viviano, Clerk  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson  Nadia Madden,  
Richard Tremblay        Conservation Administrator 
 
October 5, 2022 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Present: BP, RB, JV,ML, MW, RT 
Absent: CC 
Also: NM
Call to Order at 7:02 pm 
Announcements 
MW suggested that the Conscomm designate an alternate member to take on the role of monitoring the 
meeting room during meetings.  BP agreed and noted that MW is the cohost for this meeting 
Public Comment: Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the comment 
period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
Minutes of previous meetings – September 21, 2022 
MW/ML M/S to approve the minutes of 9/21.  Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve (RB abstained) 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 7pm Girl Scouts 
Girl Scouts Leanne Taylor and Katie Daykin from Troop 64501 presented their project, proposing to 
install a bench from Trex at the Lane Conservation property.  They have considered a few different 
options on the lot.  They would like to install the bench on a weekend.  BP said he has purchased a chain 
to help secure the bench.  MW said that she appreciated the presentation which was well thought out, and 
thanked LT and KD for approval. 
 
MW/RT  M/S to approve the bench installation as recommended by the scouts. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by the Lunenburg Water District for 
replacement of a water main on 1205-1479 Massachusetts Avenue. 
 
Discussion of the request to waive the abutter notification requirement.  RB proposed denying the 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
request.  BP suggested that the applicant notifies all abutters in the wetlands buffer.  RB 
recommended getting the full list from the Assessor’s office and picking the correct abutters from 
there.  Anthony suggested that we re-advertise the meeting as abutters were not properly notified. 
MW/ML M/S to reject the waiver notification to require notification of abutters within the 100-foot 
buffer area.  Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Zachary Paul & Virginia Romine 
Vestigo for replacement of a septic system at 10 Maple Parkway, Lunenburg. 
 
Nick Pauling from GPR presented the application for replacement of the septic tank, within the 50’ wetlands 
buffer.  ML asked about why they couldn’t site the tank outside the buffer, NP explained that the size of the 
tank and the required house and property line setbacks made the siting of the new tank very difficult. 
JV/MW M/S to  approve the RDA with a negative determination.  Roll call vote, 4/2 (for: BP, JV, 
MW, RT, against: RT, ML). 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP 208-1273) by Christian and Allison Martin for the 
demolition and construction of a single-family home and garage at 127 Chase Road.  
DEP number has been issued with no comments. 
JV/ML moved to approve the project with a standard order of conditions.  Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Nicholas Pirro for reseeding and 
associated grading within a wetlands area at 408 Electric Avenue. 
Maryann DePinto presented an updated site plan from 10/4/22 depicting the regrind covered area.  MW asked 
if the project was not already an after-the-fact RDA, and if the regrind area was larger than it had been 
previously.  Property owner Nick Pirro explained that the regrind and crushed concrete had been there prior to 
the site clean-up, as the neighboring property had been plowing up sand and gravel towards the catch basin. 
 
ML  stated he was recusing himself due to a personal relationship. 
 
JV/BP M/S to approve the project under a #3 negative determination.  Roll Call vote, (for: BP, JV, RT 
against: MW, RB,). 
 
ML returned from recusal. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Brian Haas for the paving of a 
driveway at 509 Townsend Harbor Road.  
NM said the applicant has requested a continuation until 11/2 as the engineering drawings are not complete.   
JV/ML M/S to continue hearing to 11/2 meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP # 208-1265) by Fitchburg Land property Owner LLC to construct a 
367,000 square foot warehouse and distribution facility with parking and storm water controls at 260 
Fahlulah Road.  
NM said the applicant has requested a continuation until 11/2.  The peer review is underway and should be 
complete by the 10/19 meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
RB/JV M/S to continue hearing to 11/2 meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
Election of Officers (If all members participate) – 
No action. 
Review of RDA requirements – NM reviewed 
information from the MACC Handbook 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
192 Townsend Harbor Road: coming right along 
104 Woodland Drive: BP to reach out personally 
to the property owner. 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
Update on maintenance work, reimbursement.  ML 
said the vendor is going to come back with a quote 
on the kitchen cabinets. 
 
ML asked if the barn that is on the 123 Hollis road 
house property could be used to put the shared 
lawnmower under cover.  BP recommended 
contacting the tenant. 
 
Use of the Hollis Road account for Pollinator 
Habitat. ML asked if the pollinator garden fencing 
purchase order was ready yet.  JV asked if the 
windows were for the pollinator garden. BP said 
they are for the house and that Conscomm has a 
contract with the tenant, and that Conscomm has a 
duty to provide them with a safe environment.   
 
Nick Pirro offered to diagnose and service the 
lawn mower for the pollinator garden. 
 
BP asked that the Commission that when 
considering pollinator habitat funding requests that 
they keep in mind the primary purpose of the 
Hollis Road account was intended for maintaining 
the residence at 123 Hollis Road. MW asked if 
there has been any capital planning for anticipated 
maintenance expenses on 123 Hollis Road. 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
183 Hemlock Drive 
160 Mass Ave 
MW/ML M/S to approve a CoC for 160 Mass 
Ave. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
39 Island Road 
MW/JV M/S to approve a Coc for 208-255 at 39 
Island Road.  Roll Call Vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
RT/ML M/S to close out existing enforcement 
orders at 39 Island Road.   
 
Administrative Determination: 
131 White Street 
The Lunenburg Housing authority wrote a letter to 
LCC requesting us to reconsider their proposed 
tree cutting under an Administrative Determination 
rather than an RDA.  Wayne Caron and Dale 
Proulx from the Housing Authority Board 
explained that the funding that they have from the 
state to remove the trees is not sufficient to replace 
the trees that they plan to remove, most of which 
are dead and dying.  BP said that 20+ trees would 
need to be covered under an RDA filing.  NM 
offered to sit down with the Housing Authority to 
assist with filing an RDA. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
NON 48 Oak Ridge 
NON 54 Pine Grove 
NON 23 Cove Road 
NON 336 Arbor St 
 
NM has located the letters of non-compliance and 
will go on to issue enforcement orders for these 
properties. 
 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot .  Property owners 
emails and they are making an engineered plan for 
the lot. 
 
NON 691 Chase Road an RDA for the work on the 
property has been submitted for an upcoming 
meeting. 
 
EO 411 Goodrich St - property owner is 
submitting a new RDA with the wetlands line and 
proposed tree removal/replacement 
 
EO 615 Townsend Street – property has fully 
complied with enforcement order 
 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway - Bill Bernard (DPW) 
signed off on the application for the Howard 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
street driveway for Table Rock.  BP will work 
on getting the driveway installed after that. 
Timber Sales – BP said the Timber contracts 
have been executed and they will start on 
Northfield road property first, then a harvest 
on Hollis Road. 
Update on trails grant: the town has been 
reimbursed for the trails grant, it has all been 
spent.  The signs are still being put up, and the 
access gates have not yet been installed. 
35 Leominster Road – 15.5 acres are up for sale 
to the town. 
RT/ML M/S to tell the Select Board the 
Conservation Commission is not interested 
in the property. Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
Committee Reports – 
 
MW is looking for a project to write a Mass Trails 
grant for, she is looking for input and ideas from 
the Conservation Commission. 
 
Communications /Public comment
RB/RT M/S to adjourn the meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourned at 9:42 pm 
 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is October 19, 2022 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 