===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
    Richard Tremblay, Associate 
     Mary Wilson ,Associate 
 
 
April 20 2022 
7:00 PM . 
MINUTES 
 
Call to Order called to Order at 7 PM by RB acting as chair. Also present were JR, ML CC and PA  
Announcements 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
Minutes of previous meetings – April 6, 2022  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
      
PUBLIC HEARINGS  
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 
239, The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Matthew and 
Tara Nazarenko for the construction of stairs, a landing and a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone at 
160 Sunset Lane. 
 
Matthew Nazarenko represented himself and narrated the project to the Commission. RB reviewed 
the scope to ensure it was clear. It was noted that one landing would avoid a large tree and tree root. 
JR had concerns about the water line on the plan. It was noted it was at the dock. It was noted the 
dock was in the water. JR clarified it was proposed to be removable. RB noted that there was a 
parking concern. JR motioned for a continuance to the next meeting. Carl Luck expressed concerns. 
He reviewed prior approvals in the general area. He recommended that the commission consider 
prior approvals where the steps met directly with the docs. RB noted the specific information that 
would need to be added to the plans. The meeting was continued to the meeting of May 4, 2022 by a 
motion of JR and a second by ML with a unanimous vote to approve the motion. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 
239 , The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a request for a Determination by 
John Welton for the construction of stairs, a landing and a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone at 
205 Sunset Lane Map 129 Lot 68 
 
John Welton was present to review the proposed work. JR and MM raised some questions concerning 
the trees that would need to be removed. It was requested that some detail of the location of any 
proposed tree removal be added to the plan and the commission would rei-inspect on April 30, 2022 
around 9 AM. Carl Luck expressed that the design of steps to a dock was a reasonable proposal.  The 
===PAGE 2===
meeting was continued to the May 4, 2022 meeting by a motion of ML and a second by PA with a 
unanimous roll call vote to approve the motion 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 
239 ,The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a request for a Determination by 
Michael Cool for the construction of a pool and decking within the 100 foot buffer zone at 8 Butterfly 
lane. 
 
Mr. Cool appeared to represent himself. It was noted that his above ground pool with attacked deck 
proposal was not within 50 feet to the wetland. It was noted that the plans matched the current 
condition of the site. RB requested that erosion protection be paced prior to construction. It was 
noted that the backwash would be on the house side in the outer part of the buffer zone. ( note: It is a 
salt water discharge.) ML moved to issue a negative determination. JR seconded and the commission 
approved the motion by unanimous vote.  
  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 
239 The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Request for a Determination by 
David Blatt for the removal of trees at 411 Goodrich Street  
 David Blatt was there to represent himself. RB noted that site inspection indicated that the wetland 
line as presented appears inaccurate and that there appears to be questions with respect to prior 
work and that the plans will need to be adjusted. RB noted that some of the work is within the 30 foot 
no touch zone that would require replanting. Mr. Blatt noted that some of the trees he had remove 
bittersweet. Mr. Blatt asked the commission to show the GIS maps noting he felt that the wetlands are 
involved. RB noted that Mr Blatt and MM can meet offline in-between meetings. ML motioned to 
continue to May 4, 2022 with a second by PA and a unanimous roll call vote to approve the motion. 
RB also noted the commission would be on site on April 30, 2022  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 
239 The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a request for a Determination by 
Patricia Vail for the removal of trees within the 100 foot buffer zone at 92 Wilder Rd 
 
Continued at the request by applicant by a motion of ML and a second by PA and a unanimous vote 
to approve the motion ( motion called for May 4 2022 meeting 
 
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING s 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 
239, The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Request for a Determination by 
Lunenburg Jack Katurnia for the removal of impervious materials within the buffer  zone at 192 
Townsend Harbor Road . 
 
Jack Katurnia appeared for himself and explained the remedial project. MM recounted his 
site visit and his appreciation for coming forward. Mr  Katurnia noted he has a contract lined up. 
MM will visit the site and review the limits of work. The meeting was continued to May 4, 2022 by a 
motion of JR and a second by PA with a unanimous vote by roll call to approve the motion.  
 
NEW BUSINESS -   
                                                 
Discussion of Properties on the Tax Lien Sale List 
 
Old Business-   update on encroachment issues at : 
192 Townsend harbor Road 
214 Townsend harbor Road 
===PAGE 3===
240 Townsend Harbor Road 
104 Woodland Drive 
116 Woodland Drive 
 
Update on maintenance work at Hollis Road residence. Gini Albertson had the commission 
approve plantings in the amount of  $310.00 by a motion of ML and a second by PA and a 
unanimous vote of the commission to approve the motion by roll call vote. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
     238 Fire Road 16 – RB noted that the erosion 
protection will be completed within the next 24 hours 
and there is also an engineers as built in progress 
     615 Townsend Street 
     441 Townsend Harbor Road 
    NON 48  Oak Ridge 
     NON 23 Cove Road MM noted that he is working 
with a planting plan  
                                        on the lot in the affected area 
and will be working  
                                         with the new DPW Director 
     190 Peninsula Drive- MM refereed them to an 
arborist 
     NON 54 Pine Grove 
    MM NOTED A NEW VIOLATION FOR 4 
Gabe’s Place 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
 
     Certificates of Compliance  
     Extension Permit –  
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Administrators Determination   
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
 
 
Communications / public comment 
Adjourn The meeting adjourned at 
8:50 PM by a motion of CC and a 
second by ML with a unanimous vote 
to approve the motion by roll call vote.  
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is May 04, 2022 at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 