===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Jeffrey Viviano Clerk  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson  
Richard Tremblay         
 
November 2, 2022 
7:00 PM 
ZOOM REMOTE 
Present: BP, RB, CC, ML, MW, RT  
Absent: JV  
 
Call to Order: 7:00 pm 
 
Announcements 
None. 
 
Public Comment: Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the comment 
period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
 
Sam Welch noted that he is present at the meeting. 
 
Minutes of previous meetings – October 19, 2022 
CC/RT M/S to approve the minutes of 10/5. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Dan’s Paving LLC for a proposed 
parking lot, proposed garage and office and septic system at 691 Chase Road, Lunenburg. 
 
Melissa Magane with Dan’s Paving and Excavating presented the proposed plan, and noted that she is 
requesting a retroactively approved RDA as some of the work (the driveway and existing paved area) have 
already been constructed. The electric service has not been constructed yet. MM noted that once occupancy of 
the land is approved, in accordance to the Zoning Board special permit, she will have 6 months to remove the 
temporary trailer office, and the proposed office, garage, and septic area will hopefully be complete. 
 
RB asked if there had been any disturbance within the 100’ buffer zone. MM confirmed Dan’s Paving has not 
disturbed anything within the 100’ buffer zone. Although, Unitil has a right-of-way access that they did some 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
clearing for. 
 
RB asked if the septic system has been approved by Board of Health. MM stated it has not. RB said that if 
there are any alterations the BOH recommends, the plan will need to come back to the Conservation 
Commission again for approval. MM said there is an artesian well on-site, and the BOH has approved it as a 
potable water source.  
 
MM confirmed the electric service will be coming in overhead. 
 
RB/MW M/S to approve with a negative determination with condition that the office be notified  
prior to construction for inspection of erosion controls, and if there are any changes to the septic system 
plan it be brought back to the Conservation Commission for approval. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by the Lunenburg Housing Authority, 
for tree cutting at 131 White Street. 
 
Deborah Christen (LUHA Chairman), Adam Gautie (LUHA Assistant Executive Director), and Dale Proul 
(LUHA member) were present for the proposed plan. AG described that a number of trees on the perimeter 
from Building A to G will be taken down because the tress are dead or dying, and present a hazard due to 
falling limbs. 
 
MW visited the site and confirmed that a number of trees are dead, dying, or leaning over a driveway or unit. 
She stated she would be interested in replacing some of the dead or diseased trees but has concerns with 
replacing any healthy trees. ML conquered with MW that they are harm to safety and property and he has no 
issues with removing the trees, but aesthetically they might consider replacing them with smaller trees. RT 
agreed with ML but asked if the trees near Building A, B, C, and D are dead or dying and are marked for 
removal, as he doesn’t remember being taken there during either of the two site visits. AG stated that those 
trees were marked for removal and they have previously caused property damage, he confirmed there is no 
plan to replace the trees due to budgetary restrictions. RT noted that where the trees are more spare (near 
Buildings A, B, C) the proposed trees might remove the trees entirely from that area. RB asked if the stumps 
would be taken out. AG stated it was up to the Commission, and RB proposed leaving the stumps and being 
careful with surrounding vegetation while removing trees. BP agreed with RB about not removing stumps, as 
it would also be cheaper. 
 
RB/CC M/S to approve with a negative determination with condition that the stumps be left and that 
damage to the surrounding vegetation be minimized. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Elaine Normandin for a proposed replacement of a retaining 
wall at 47 Round Road. 
 
ML/CC M/S to continue hearing to 11/16 meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Rene Rainville, for a proposed replacement of a retaining 
wall at 57 Round Road. 
 
MW/RB M/S to continue hearing to 11/16 meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Marc Sprague, for a proposed replacement of a retaining 
wall at 73 Round Road. 
 
 
Matt Marro represented applicants on all three NOIs at Round Road, as the properties are abutters. Brett 
Ramsden (of Ramsden Walls) who will be doing the proposed work was also present. MM presented the three 
walls which are all fieldstone walls that are self-draining. There is a 100 year flood plain mark on property. 
The walls are not proposed to be expanded or the height raised, the existing walls will just be replaced. MM 
presented images of the current deteriorating wall at all three properties.  
 
RT went on a site visit and confirmed that the walls are in poor shape, he also asked if there were any plans to 
replace the docks as they are also damaged. MM said there were no plans to replace the docks. MW asked if 
there were any plans to address the erosion that has gone into the lake. MM stated there were no current plans 
for said erosion.  
 
MM stated he contacted DEP about delays with issuing DEP numbers due to short staffing. 
 
RB asked where the walls were in relation to the high water mark. MM stated that some of the walls were on 
top of the high water mark while others were slightly off set. He stated work will likely be done in drawdown 
time. MM confirmed that the wall will be placed slightly behind the existing timber wall. BR stated that the 
full project for all three properties shall take approximately one month. BR expressed concern about the lake 
potentially closing due to high precipitation, and resulting difficulties with construction this could cause 
including project delays. MM stated he would coordinate with BR about dates to avoid this from happening. 
RB stated that there could be mechanical issues with the damn and that he should have a contingency plan for 
that. BR said he will mostly be able to do the work from dry land. 
 
Eric Knapp (at 39 Round Road) is an abutter and expressed that he generally supports the project but requests 
that the replacement wall match the location and height of the exiting wall on his property, and that there be no 
significant gap between the two that would cause channeling in the event of flooding. MM stated that he could 
ensure there is no significant gap between the two walls but it would be difficult to match the height because 
the wall is higher at 39 Round Rd than at 47 Round Rd and he is not able to raise the wall without filling the 
flood plain.  
 
ML/RB M/S to continue hearing to 11/2 meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Brian Haas for the paving of a 
driveway at 509 Townsend Harbor Road.  
 
Brian Hass and Bill Hannigan were both present for the discussion. BHann presented on the plan for details 
regarding where the paving for the driveway will take place. He presented aerial photos that showed the 
general location of the previous gravel driveway, and the proposed plan which will be in a similar location, 
with some expanded parking area. The paving is outside the 50’ no build zone. BHann stated the turnout area 
is an extension of the driveway and will be loamed and seeded for stabilization. Additionally, he staked that 
some crushed gravel was added at the back of the driveway prior, and the plan is to keep some of the gravel, 
around a 2 feet apron of the driveway and the extra crushed stoned would be removed and the area loamed and 
seeded. The area paved to the southeast of the driveway encroached on the abutter property, so it will be 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
removed. BHann stated this project will result in a minimal increase in runoff but that the crushed stone and 
restored area will mitigate this increase. BHann stated he is seeking a negative determination. There were also 
some trees outside of the 50’ buffer zone that had been removed due to their proximity to overhead wires. 
 
MW pointed out that there appears to be a misrepresentation of the number of tress in the plan versus the ones 
that appeared in photos. BHann noted that this could be the case. RT asked what the dimensions are for the 
area of crushed stone, BHann confirmed that the crushed stone is existing and there are plans to remove excess 
stone.  
 
Susan Petrella (abutter to project) brought up a concern about the project being in compliance with Lunenburg 
Byalw Article 4 Section 250-6.4 which requires that driveways be set 5’ from lot lines, and needs to be issued 
a building permit. BP stated this should be brought up with the building inspector. RB asked if there were 
plans to comply with this bylaw. BHann stated it could fall under an exemption but that he will likely take it 
up with the building inspector 
 
RB/CC M/S to approve with a negative determination. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent (DEP # 208-1265) by Fitchburg Land property Owner LLC to construct a 
367,000 square foot warehouse and distribution facility with parking and storm water controls at 260 
Fahlulah Road. 
 
BHann requested a continuance to the 11/16 meeting. 
 
RB/MW M/S to continue hearing to 11/16 meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Questions for Town Counsel 
BP asked question to town counsel. He confirmed that in the Wetlands Act there is a two-year statute of 
limitations on existing violations that are just in the buffer zone and not impacting the resource area.  
 
Review of draft select board environmental policies 
BP stated concerns that there is a lot of stuff included that he isn’t sure how they would enforce it, and he also 
stated there appears to be a lot of things that they missed. MW reviewed the policies as well and has concerns 
regarding ATV usage, and BP agreed. RB also expressed concern on enforcement and where the money for 
policies is coming from. BP recommended that questions and concerns be sent it. 
 
Parcel 3 Sunny Hill Road 
BP stated that the town has right of first refusal, and as far as he knows there is no interest among the 
Conservation Commission to acquire it. 
 
MW/RB M/S to approve that the Conservation Commission has no interest in acquiring Parcel 3 Sunny 
Hill Road. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
Request for a field change by Richard Tremblay 
The plan calls for 12” wattle but only 9” wattles are available. RT requests to use 9” wattles instead. 
 
RB/MW M/S for a field change to a 9” wattle. Unanimous to approve. 
RT recused. 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
The Boy Scouts for an Eagle Scout project submitted a request for overnight camping at Clark’s Hill. BP 
noted they filled out the appropriate form and recommended that it be approved. 
 
RT/MW M/S to approve overnight camping by the Boys Scouts at Clark Hill. Roll Call vote, unanimous 
to approve. 
 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
 
192 Townsend Harbor Road 
 
104 Woodland Drive 
BP went by their place twice, no one answered. 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
Update on maintenance work, exterminator 
ML had a meeting set for the kitchen but the person got sick so they will reschedule.  
ML stated they received permission to store the lawn mower and the push mower in the shed on property over 
the winter. 
ML said signatures are required for the exterminator contract on 123 Hollis Rd, it would be a $495 yearly 
contract. The contract is made out to the Town of Lunenburg. BP said he should reach out to Julie Belliveau 
about who should sign it.  
 
Administrative Determination: 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
390 New West Townsend Rd (DEP#  208-1125) 
 
RB/ MW M/S to approve the issuance for the Certificate of Compliance. Roll call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 48 Oak Ridge 
EO 54 Pine Grove 
EO 23 Cove Road 
Tracee and Robert Galloni (property owners at 23 Cove Rd) commented on their EO. RG stated that he has 
correspondence between him and Matt Marro back to 6/16/2021, with a timeline of everything, and a 
recording of an 8/18/2021 Conservation meeting where a plan was presented and approved. MM visited the 
site on 4/14/22 and said the site was all good, and MM stated he would report back to the commission. BP 
asked if there was still the shed/greenhouse on the corner of his lot that was within the 50’ buffer zone. RG 
stated that at the 8/18/2021 meeting he was represented by Rob Bowen. Oxbow also provided a report that 
showed there was no wetland filled. RG provided a restoration plan, it was accepted and approved and a site 
visit was conducted by MM on 4/14/2022. BP recalls that the Commission said the shed construction needed 
to stop but it was completed on site. BP stated that this must remain on the agenda until Adam Burney or the 
new Conservation Administrator reviews the EO and determines no further action is needed.  
 
BP asked if there was significance between the distinction between a shed and greenhouse on the property, RG 
stated that it was decided at the 8/18/2021 meeting that the issue of the greenhouse and stonewall was 
resolved. 
 
RG stated he would be providing legal documents in regards to the wetlands and rainwater covert which was 
===PAGE 6===
 
 
supposed to be maintained by Hickory Hills. He stated that the lack of covert maintenance, caused flooding on 
his property, and it resulted in his property being designated as wetland. It was also determined that there were 
stones in the rainwater covert, and when they were removed, the water started to flow better, and his land 
started to dry out. 
 
EO 336 Arbor St 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot 
EO 411 Goodrich St 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
BP has not yet talked to Bill Benard 
 
Howard Street Driveway 
BP has not yet talked to Bill Benard 
  
Timber Sales 
BP heard from Fran McNamara that pulling lumber out of the back of Hollis Rd is going well; 
 
Conservation land improvements 
BP stated that the PO for Maki was only $300 but there needs to be more funds to pay for upcoming expenses.  
 
RB/RT M/S for a $2,000 PO at Maki for materials and supplies for bridge repairs and putting up signs 
and gates. Roll call vote, unanimous to approve 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
BP stated that Adam Burney received communication from the attorney for Sean Kelly’s estate, at the Hickory 
Hills property. The property failed Title V so it will delay the transfer of the estate to the Conservation 
Commission. 
 
Communications /Public comment 
Sam Welch stated he was interested in being an associate member of the Commission. BP explained the role 
of an associate member such as attending meeting, being included in discussion during the meeting, and 
coming to site visits. MW stated she will send SW any relevant volunteering opportunities. 
 
MW/CC M/S adjourn the meeting. Roll call vote, unanimous. 
 
Adjourn at 9:14 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is November 16, 2022 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 