===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission  
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Jeffrey Viviano, Clerk  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson  Anna Petrie 
Richard Tremblay        Conservation Administrator 
Sam Welch, Associate Member       
 
December 21, 2022 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, JV, ML, MW, RT, RB 
Absent:  CC  
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements: BP states that in the Massachusetts Association of Conservation Commission Newsletter, 
MW was presented on the list for certified Conservation Commissioner.  
Public Comment: John Fortune of Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. Released a statement of concern to the 
board on how Lunenburg Water District is allowing dumping of well water on shorefront property 
involving an inactive well. JF urges the commission to take action, especially with the upcoming project 
contract with Tighe & Bond. AP will follow up with LWD. 
 
Minutes of previous meetings – December 7, 2022- No draft presented to approve. 
Appointments/Hearings – 
 
AP had addressed the inaccurate posting of the agenda, which included a posting of an extension request for 
41 & 47 Reservoir Road by Steve Powell. Extension Requests for Order of Conditions do not need to be 
displayed as a New Hearing, rather under general business. AP continues to state that this extension request is 
not required due to the Covid-18 Order 42 extension. Further, this extension request will not be heard at 
tonight's meeting.  
 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
No new hearings. 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
No continued hearings. 
NEW BUSINESS: 
No new business. 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
BP to discuss grant proposals at 3 different 
locations: Table Rock, Harold Harley Wildlife 
Viewing Platform, and Rayno Conservation Area.  
 
BP says there is 3 possible areas for parking for 
Table rock. Matt Marro had delineated Northfield 
frontage of Table Rock and confirmed there are 
wetlands on both east and west frontage points on 
Northfield. MW suggested placing parking area in 
north frontage trail head, would be closer to Table 
Rock itself. Another location is Northfield 
frontage, along Stage Coach Road.  
 
BP proposes getting engineering plans for better 
drainage at Harold Harley Wildlife Viewing 
Platform. 
 
BP also proposes to have plans for a driveway 
permit along with a parking lot at Rayno 
Conservation Area.  
 
RB/JV M/S to authorize plans to apply for 
grants at Table Rock, Harold Harley Wildlife 
Viewing Platform, and Rayno Conservation 
Area. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
MW proposed a separate project for Small Town 
Forest in regards to a picnic area, making it ADA 
accessible.  
RB/ML M/S to authorize grant submittal for 
Picnic Area at Small Town Forest. Roll Call 
vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
BP brought up a discussion point on switching 
commissioners from using Google Drive to strictly 
One Drive. Admin. Anna Petrie and assistant 
Rebecca Manley recommended this switch so that 
both staff and commissioners can have access to 
files through their One Drive account. BP, JV, and 
RB stated that One Drive doesn’t seem to be as 
user-friendly as google drive. MW has no 
preference.  
 
 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
104 Woodland Drive   
 
 
 
Budget Update 
BP presented the budget report. He said there is 
currently $21,061 in the Timber Rights Fund and 
an expected $6,000 from the Hawes harvest and 
expected $21,000 from the Rayno harvest, minus 
Gary Goldrups fees, will be coming in. BP said the 
balance on the Hollis Road revolving fund is at 
$60,000.  
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML stated that the windows have been installed. 
No further updates. 
 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
90 Hemlock Road 
Finished construction/septic replacement. Site is 
stabilized.  
ML/RB M/S to approve a CoC for 90 Hemlock 
Drive. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
37 Spring Street 
Finished construction/septic replacement. Site is 
stabilized. 
RB/ML M/S to approve a CoC for 37 Spring 
Street. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 48 Oak Ridge: Will have file submittal by 
January 16th 
EO 54 Pine Grove 
EO 23 Cove Road: Will be updating 
enforcement order  
EO 336 Arbor St: Submitted forms 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot 
 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
 
Timber Sales 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
RB/ML M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 8:42pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is January 4, 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 