===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
    Richard Tremblay, Associate 
FEB 16 2022 
7:00 PM . 
MINUTES 
 
                                     
 
Call to Order: 
 
BP called the meeting to order at 7:30 PM -  present were BP, RB, PA, ML  Absent was JR, CC, JV  
 
Announcements 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
  
Minutes of previous meetings – February 2, 2021 No action  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
   
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING S 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by The Town of Lunenburg  removal of an Old Dump site 
in Municipal Conservation land next to bordering vegetated wetlands along the Catacoonamug Brook at 104 Fairview Ave  
 
. BP reviewed the changes Mark Popham made. RB and MM reviewed the limit of work and the 
timing of the work during the warmer weather. PV moved to issue an Order of Conditions. ML 
seconded and the commission approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.  
 
 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Eric Fowler for the development of a 4 lot reside ntial 
subdivision at 711 Massachusetts Ave. 
 
 
Wes Flis reviewed the financial analysis that was requested at the last meeting. He reviewed the 
various factors such as overhead costs due to inflation and supply chain issues and general market 
conditions. 
 
 
RB moved to issue an order of conditions ML seconded and the commission voted unanimously.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
The Conservation Commissi on will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by William Emkey for work at 445 Townsend Harbor 
Road for the replacement of railroad tie steps and a timber retaining wall within the buffer zone.  
 
   
RB moved to continue to March 2. 2022. PA seconded and the commission voted unanimously to 
approve.  
   
    
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Zachery Taylor for the construction of a new duplex 
home, septic and related site grading.at 123 Chase Road. 
 
 
RB moved to continue to March 2. 2022. ML seconded and the commission voted unanimously to 
approve.  
 
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS -   
                                                 
Approval of expenditure from Timber Rights Fund to move gates to DPW yard.  Motion by RB, ML seconded, Voted unanimously to 
approve a PO not to exceed $250 to Aldrich Autobody charged to the timber rights fund  
 
Discussion of Properties on the Tax Lien Sale List 
 
The commission discussed the recommendation of the Open Space Committee that the tax leins not be sold for 101 Pleasant Street, 
250 Hollis Road, 56 Carr Ave, and 356 Hollis Road. 
 
The chair will ask the amount of taxes is owed on each property, if there is an estimated cost for the to wn to acquire each parcel at 
auction, and if there is an estimate of the cost to remove the Lake Lodge  and it will be discussed again at the next meeting. . 
Old Business-   update on encroachment issues at 192 Townsend harbor Road remaining 
materials to be removed at break of weather per homeowner. 
 
Update on maintenance work at Hollis Road residence. 
 
Pest management and plumbing work has been scheduled during the upcoming school vacation.  Matt 
will reach out to the DPW Director for assistance in identifying a contractor who could be hired to develop 
a scope of work for use in the procurement process.  
 
By Law review committee         Review of existing Wetlands Bylaw for possible future amendments 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
615 Townsend Street 
441 Townsend Harbor Road….Jack Maloney is completing plan for MM to 
review. 
 
    NON 48 Oak Ridge 
    NON 23 Cove Road 
    190 Peninsula Drive 
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. BP reviewed the progress of the revised signage. 
Volunteers continue to come forward to help with trails and signage 
 
 
     
 
===PAGE 3===
 
Certificates of Compliance 30 Laurel Lane MM reviewed the documents and the site and recommended 
the certificate be issued. RB moved to issue the Certificate. OA seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously.  
 
     Extension Permit –  
 
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
 
 
Communications / public comment : 
 
BP Noted that March 21 MRPC trail meeting for a greenway trail between Lunenburg and Shirley.  
BP has been attending mass open space conferences looking for sources of funding 
BP will be absent on March 16 and April 21 RB will chair the meeting. 
BP noted that Gary Gouldrup doesn’t agree with changing the plans for graveling the Northfield 
Road area. BP will continue to reach him 
 
Adjourn : RB motioned to adjourn at 815 PM  PA seconded and the commission voted unanimously 
to approve the motion .  
 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is March 2, 2022at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 
 
 
Notes: All votes are by roll call 
All documents for the hearings are on file at the Conservation Commission offices 