===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Mary Wilson, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk 
Richard Bursch  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche  Anna Petrie 
Jeffrey Viviano         Conservation Administrator 
 
 
March 1, 2023 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, MW, RT, ML, CC 
Absent:  JV, RB 
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements: N/A 
Public Comment: N/A 
  
Minutes of previous meetings – February 15th ,2023 CC/RT M/S to approve. Roll Call vote, unanimous 
to approve. 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 
N/A 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Michael and Denise Tufts for 
installation of roof structure on the patio at 48 Oak Ridge.  
 
Michael Tufts is present and requests AP to represent. AP present pictures of the structure that was constructed 
within the footprint of the already existing patio. AP continues to state that the roof structure is semi-
permanent and does not overhang past the patio itself.  
 
RT asks if the patio was already existing? 
 
AP confirms. 
 
RT asks for the footage the patio and structure are from the water and the dimensions of the structure? 
 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
AP states that the existing patio and new structure is within 30 foot zone and the structure is 16’x16’ and 
confirms with the property owner.  
 
BP states that technically the structure is in the no-disturb and no-build zone, though is over an existing patio 
and sees no pending issue and recommends negative determination.  
 
MW/CC M/S to issue negative determination for roof structure over existing patio for 48 Oak Ridge.  
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve.    
  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Tanner Cole for the proposed 
placement of bank run gravel and two solid drainage pipes at 1083 Northfield Road.   
 
Tanner Cole to represent himself. TC states that the parcel is under Chapter 61 Forest Stewardship Program 
for approximately 8 years. Forest Cutting Plan was submitted approximately 2 years ago. TC states that they 
continue to use the existing driveway as the only access point for trucks and equipment. TC says that the 
person conducting the timber harvest suggested to have gravel placed to stabilize the driveway as well as 
provide safe access for trucks entering and leaving. In doing that, the state forester assigned to the site 
recommended that the work conducted should be filed with the Commission. TC again states that this 
driveway was existing and water flow changed over the years, which increased the amount of water to the 
driveway site. The grade was raised by 12 inches and erosion control and silt fence barriers are in place.  
 
BP asks if the work had already occurred and is a retroactive filing? 
 
TC confirms. 
 
BP asks for a picture where the 2 pipes are located? 
 
AP is presenting photos. TC references both the 8 and 10 inch pipes.  
 
MW states that the works conducted seems reasonable and provides safety for this logging parcel. 
 
CC/MW M/S to issue negative determination for bank run gravel and two solid drainage pipes at 1083 
Northfield Road.  Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
BP for a brief standby due to call from commissioner ML to get link for meeting. ML joins later in the 
meeting.  
  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a request for an Amended Order of Conditions by Jessica Santos for the proposed 
relocation of a shared driveway at 759 and 763 Northfield Road (DEP #208-1187).  
 
Chris Anderson of Hannigan Engineering to represent the applicant. CA presents updated plans in regards to 
moving the original proposed driveway. CA recaps on the previous approved plans for the driveway, in which 
the original driveway proposal was 30 ft closer to the mapped wetland compared to revised plan. Original 
plans also entail retaining walls with a drainage pipe. CA states that the new proposed plan is to shift the 
shared driveway upland 30ft, which puts it further from the wetland. CA states that the new plan also 
eliminates the need to construct a retaining wall and will be gradually sloped off.  
 
BP asks if this is a shared driveway and will straddle the property line for the first 50 feet? 
 
CA confirms first question. CA states that the property boundary will have to be relocated in shifting with the 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
proposed driveway.  
 
MW asks CA to point out the previous outline on the plans for the driveway. 
 
CA shares outlines of the original and new driveway on the submitted plans.  
 
MW asks if the driveway is moving further away from the wetlands? 
 
CA states that the driveway is moving further away from the wetlands and keeping the original limit of 
disturbance within 30 ft zone to allow additional riprap placed within drainage ditch, which will slow down 
the velocity of water.  
 
MW/CC M/S to approve Amended Order of Conditions for the relocation of shared driveway at 759 & 
763 Northfield Road. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by John and Debra Trainor for the proposed installation of a 
septic system and removal of an existing timber wall to be replaced with concrete blocks at 105 Horizon 
Island Road (DEP #208-XXXX).  
Jack Maloney from Dillis & Roy to represent property owner. JM first describes the culvert located under the 
entry driveway that has timber retaining wall that are in disrepair and the culvert itself is collapsing. JM states 
that the proposed work is to remove the wall and replace with concrete block walls. JM states also that water 
has not been running through the culvert for years and is deemed not useful. JM is proposing to remove and 
close off the culvert and repair the driveway, including the new walls. JM shows that the other proposal is for 
replacement of a septic system with a geomat system. The grade for the proposed area for the new septic 
system will be increase approximately 2 ½ to 3 feet.  JM also states there will be additional block walls to 
make up for the grading increase and to protect the beach area with existing rock walls. JM states this has not 
gone before the Board of Health.  
 
MW asks if there is a plan with existing trees on the property? 
 
JM shows the location of an oak tree that is in the line of the work proposed for the septic system, will likely 
be removed. JM also points out section of trees near the shed that will be removed.  
 
BP recommends a plan will show all existing trees and what will be removed. 
 
MW states that it is important to have all the trees within the 50 ft zone to be mapped out.  
 
MW/ML M/S to continue until March 15 Notice of Intent by John and Debra Trainor for the proposed 
installation of a septic system and removal of an existing timber wall to be replaced with concrete blocks 
at 105 Horizon Island Road. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
   
  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by P.J. Keating Company for the 
proposed removal of accumulated sediment and Phragmites from an existing detention basin at 400 
Leominster-Shirley Road.   
 
Doug Vigneau to represent P.J. Keating. DV is proposing to perform maintenance work at an existing 
detention basin which has been present since at least 2008. DV states that this basin receives drainage directly 
from Leominster-Shirley Road. DV also states that in the past, the basin receives excessive drainage from the 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
initial basin that is located across the street with an existing pipe running underneath the road. Originally 
excess drainage was directed to the adjacent property, which is now the newly constructed warehouse. DV 
explains that the basin in discussion was not thoroughly maintained due to not needing to direct drainage 
towards it, only stormwater was filling the basin.  
 
BP asks for plans and photos in regards to the proposal. 
 
DV displays submitted plans and describes different locations of ponds and basins and how the water 
circulates throughout the system.  
 
BP asks for the location on the map for the new warehouse. 
 
DV points out new warehouse location. DV continues to describe the condition of the existing pipe connecting 
the basin that runs under the road. The pipe is full of sediment, and it proposed to jet out the sediment into the 
discussed detention basin and continue to maintain it. DV also states that if pipe is not in a condition to jet out 
the sediment, there would be a replacement of another 24-inch pipe.  
 
BP asks if it is regular discharge water or well water from the near town well? 
 
DV states that the basin settled out any suspended solids and are regularly monitored for that. It is unlikely that 
the surface water will be entering the well. DV shows pictures of the existing basin which is filled with 
phragmites and has rocks and boulders bordering the basin.  
 
ML asks if the stone at the facility is washed with just water or if the water also contains any agent of 
cleaning? 
 
DV states that it is strictly water. 
 
BP asks what is specifically requested? 
 
DV states that is proposed to remove the phragmites, no trees are to be removed from the perimeter though 
some smaller shrubs and saplings will need to be removed to provide access for equipment, a long arm 
excavator to be used to scrape the sediment from the basin and will stop once hydric or native soils are 
present. The basin will not be made deeper and sediment will be dumped in a truck and placed on a different 
site. DV states that as part of the proposed pipe cleaning, silt fence and haybales will be in place.  
 
BP remarks that normally the plans show limit of work and erosion control, though may not make sense for 
cleaning out a detention basin. 
 
MW/CC M/S to issue negative determination for removal of accumulated sediment and Phragmites 
from an existing detention basin at 400 Leominster-Shirley Road.  Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
No Continued Hearings 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
 
BP states that the Planning Board approved a 
motion to grant the Conservation Commission use 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   
 
of GIS hours at Massachusetts Regional Planning 
Commission.  
 
MW proposes ideas about Earth Day 2023 in 
working with the Parks and Recreation 
Department. MW suggests having a series of 
events throughout the month of April at different 
conservation properties. MW also suggest trying to 
gather some interests for the events from the 
Lunenburg Ledger. MW asks ML if there’s any 
possibilities for an event at the pollinator garden? 
 
ML states that there might be a possibility though 
not completely sure.  
 
BP recommends invasive plant removal at the 
Lane property.  
 
MW requests permission to advertise with the 
Ledger for Earth Day 2023 correspondence.  
 
The consensus is all approve.  
 
BP states that NearMap is a computer software 
with update to date satellite imagery which was 
purchased through the assessor's office. BP states 
that the commission is able to have accounts under 
this software for future applications.  
 
 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
950 Chase Road – n/a 
315 Lancaster Ave – AP states that the property 
owner is going to have property surveyed and will 
remove objects in Spring. 
110 Pleasant St, Lot 2 – n/a 
26 Mulpus Road – still on until shed is removed.  
 
Grant Updates: 
No Updates. 
 
Budget Update 
No Updates. 
 
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML is trying to get 2 vendors in to measure the 
rooms for carpeting, would like to have 2 more 
firm estimates. ML states that an invoice was 
received for the window replacement and was 
unsure if needed a vote. 
 
AP states there is no open PO for J&R Glass. 
 
ML/MW to approve PO for J&R Glass. Roll 
Call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
  
  
Administrative Determination: 
19 Island Road-  
 
AP shows photos of property and tree to be 
removed on Hickory Hills property. AP deems the 
large pine tree a risk and is within 50-100 ft buffer. 
 
ML/MW to approve Administrative 
Determination for 19 Island Road. Roll Call 
vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
 
Extension Request Permits: 
1325 Mass Ave 
 
Ryan Procter to represent the property owners. The 
changes are for an additional proposed riprap for 
the stormwater inlets to the basin and proposing an 
additional riprap berm for additional sediment 
forebay. There would be a second riprap berm for 
sediment forebay that is located just inside the 
100-foot buffer zone. RP states that with these 
changes, it is requested to have an extension of 2 
years for which the Order of Conditions to expire 
in May.  
 
BP asks if the requests are for the 2-year extension 
and approval of 2 changes to the plan? 
 
RP confirms. 
 
RT/MW M/S to approve changes and approve 
request for an Extension for 2 years at 1325 
Mass Ave.  Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
===PAGE 6===
   
 
   
 
approve. 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
N/A 
 
Notice of Project Change: 
1325 Mass Ave 
 
Discussed in Extension Request 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 48 Oak Ridge: RDA- negative 
determination. To be removed from list 
EO 54 Pine Grove: AP states this property will 
be on for March 15th meeting.  
EO 23 Cove Road: Will remain open until 
greenhouse is removed. 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: Seth Donahoe 
from Dillis & Roy along with property owner 
updated AP that plans a being finalized for 
submittal. 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
 
BP received correspondence from DPW with 4 
quotes and possibility to be done in June.  
BP also states that there is a possibility to use 
commission funds to do it earlier.  
 
MW would prefer to wait till June.  
 
Timber Sales 
N/A 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 
 
BP states that the Bobolink bird study to be 
conducted at Hunting Hill Conservation Area and 
multiple commissioners have showed interest in 
participating. 
 
MW was curious of the timeline of when this study 
will start. 
 
BP states that it will be later, possibly late April 
into May.  
 
BP states that the bridge at Hunting Hill has been 
partially repaired and secured by MW and Snow 
Riders. 
 
  
 
 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
 N/A 
 
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
CC/ML M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 8:50 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is March 15th, 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 