===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
Mary Wilson, Chair                                                                                                                           Tel: (978)582-4146 
Bob Pease, Vice Chair                                                                                                                       960 Massachusetts Ave 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk                                                                                                                   Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Richard Bursch                                                                           
Jeffrey Viviano                                                                                                             Anna Petrie 
Michael Larouche                                                                                                                             Conservation Administration 
Chris St. Germain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
July 5, 2023, 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE 
Minutes 
Roll Call: Mary W., Rich T., Rich B., Mike L. and Anna Petrie (Admin.) 
Absent: Bob P. and Chris St. Germain  
Call to Order at 7pm  by Mary W. 
Announcements/Public Comment- none .  
Minutes of previous meetings – none 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on an Amended Order of Conditions by Nicholas Eaton for repair and 
construction of existing deck at 441 Townsend Harbor Road (DEP # 208-1240). Anna screen shared the 
original site plan. Nick Eaton (applicant) noted that the shed and deck had been there for 30 -40 years . 
Two trees fell on the house and deck 3 years ago and the deck needs reframing. He will use Trex decking 
and a Techno post as a support beam. Rich T. noted that there was 1 post in the water and asked the Nick 
to modify his plan so all posts are on land. Rich B. asked Nick to talk to the Building Inspector about 
design but he cannot make the deck any larger and to add mate rial list to the plan. The Commissioners 
discussed the footings and to continue hearing. Nick agreed to keep the pilings out of the water  and he 
was given permission to take the deck apart.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Rich T. 
To continue 441 Townsend Harbor Road to 7/19/23.               Roll Call V ote was unanimous to 
approve.  
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING S 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Lunenburg Skate Park, Inc. for the proposed 
construction of a skate park and drainage basin at 100 Chestnut Street (DEP # 208 -1290).  Greg Roy 
(Dillis & Roy) screen shared the site plan for the concrete skate park at Marshall Park and noted they are 
coordinating this with the Parks Commission. Greg also shared older plans and noted the changes made , 
such as reshaping the drainage. He added that Matt Marro delineated the wetlands and stated that it is not 
jurisdictional under the Wetlands act – just under the Town’s by-laws. There will be nothing done in the 
30’, a stormwater berm in the 50’ and a small portion in the 100’  buffers. They will need to take down 7 
or 8 additional trees between the 50’ and 100’ to do the drainage. Rich B. asked for a statement from Matt 
that the wetland is under 5,000 sq ft. Mary asked about replanting and Greg replied that they will plant 7 
maples, which he will update on the site plan. He added that Parks will need to see the updated plan 
before closing so he asked to continue the hearing to 7/19/23. Rich B. asked Greg to make Parks aware of 
the stormwater maintenance plans.  
Motion: Jeff V ., Second: Rich T. 
To continue 100 Chestnut Street to 7/19/23.                       Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearin g on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Town of 
Lunenburg Facilities Department for the proposed addition of sand at the town beach at 265 Prospect St. 
Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, and Pat Hackey (Parks Commission) . Ana noted that the beach is 
currently open and they are hoping to get approval for 20 yards of sand to improve the beach. They need 
to turn the sand over and remove rocks that are hazards. They will also pull some sand from the water and 
will add sand as needed to level it. Mary suggested pulling sand every year and Ana agreed.  
Motion: Jeff V ., Second: Rich T. 
For a negativ e determination with an Order of Conditions and to have sand from the lake to be 
reclaimed post season.  
Discussion: Mike asked to have erosion control when beach is not used. Ana replied that they do not have 
a complete plan yet but will get back to the Commission when the Parks Commission has a doable plan.                                                                                        
Roll call vote was unanimous to approve.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Robert J. Correa for the Construction of a 
garage at 932 Flat Hill Road (DEP #208-XXXX). James Tetreault (Azimuth Land Design) screen-shared 
the revised site plan, per the Commission’s request to lessen impacts. They have added infiltration from 
the existing house run-off and all work will be outside of the 50’ buffer. James read the riparian area stats 
from the revised plan and noted there is less net impervious area now. Mary asked about tree removal and 
James replied there will now be just 4 or 5 trees removed, with the rest left alone. Rich T. inquired about 
the location of the driveway and James pointed it out , adding that they will raise the septic slightly to 
prevent break-out for Title 5. Mr. Correa asked how much area would need to be remediated and Rich B. 
replied just the area newly disturbed in the riverfront area. James will revise the site plan.  
Motion: Mike L., Second: Jeff V . 
To continue 932 Flat Hill Road to 7/19/23.                         Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Kate Jackson for 
tree removal and maintenance at 1338 Lancaster Ave .  Patrick and Kate Jackson  (applicants ).  Anna  
screen-shared the updated plan showing the trees to be removed and those just pruned. She noted that she 
did a site visit and reflagged the trees accordingly. Mary asked how close the trees were to the stream and 
Anna replied 1 is 67’ -68’ but the rest are further away. Anna shared photos of the trees that are 
overhanging the structures and stated they are red maples that do not look healthy. Originally they were 
asking to remove 28 trees but revised it to removing 19 trees and pruning 9 trees. Mike L. asked if they 
plan to replace the 19 trees and Patrick replied there was no replanting plan. Anna noted that the stumps 
and wood chips would be left. Mary stated that he would need written permission to remove trees on the 
abutters property and Anna replied that Patrick gave her a permission letter from the abutter.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L.  
For a negative determination with added statements that all stumps are to remain in the ground  
and there is to be no expansion of the lawn area.             Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Michael 
Masciarelli for Tree Removal at 131 Island Road . Michael screen shared  the updated drawing with 
corrected buffer lines. He added that he wants to remove 1 tree within the 50’ and 8 in the 50’ to 100’.  
They will limb 3 trees near the house to preserve the canopy and add 6 new trees, along with a privacy 
hedge. They will also plant native shrubs along the walkway to the water. Mary asked for a list of  
plantings to be added to the plan  and Michael will ask a professional to assist.  
Motion: Jeff V ., Second: Rich B. 
To continue 131 Island Rd.  to 8/2/23.                       Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on a Notice of Intent by Dan Proctor for the Construction of a 
replacement septic system at 1074 Lancaster Ave (DEP # 208-1298). Greg Roy  (Dillis & Roy) reported 
that they received the DEP file number and there were no comments.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Rich T. 
To approve the application as presented.                       Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on a Notice of Intent by  Larry Coffren & Marsha Beers for the 
relocation of an existing deck at 205 Sunset Lane (DEP# 208-XXXX). Anna received a request from the 
applicants’ representative to continue  to 7/19.  
Motion: Mike L., Second: Rich B.  
To continue 205 Sunset Lane to 7/19/23.                           Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
Update on Timber Rights Fund – no update.  
Definition of rivers – tabled 
 
Notice of Project Change - 
406 Sunset Lane – Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) and Nancy Malady (applicant). Greg screen-shared the site 
plan for construction of a proposed house addition and replacing the existing railroad tie retaining walls . 
They previously received an Order of Conditions, cleared trees and removed the existing deck. He noted 
that they are proposing a full foundation and the applicants would like to add walk-out access for storage 
of kayaks . They want to make a change to the proposed retaining wall, lower the grade to add the walk -
out and are proposing native plantings near the retaining wall. Greg stated that they had to remove 2 trees 
when excavating because they would not make it. They ran it by Anna and are proposing new plantings as 
mitigation. Rich asked if they are submitting this as a Field Change and Greg replied yes.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
To approve the Field Change for 406 Sunset Lane.             Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Grant Application Proposal Update: Mary reported that the y got the nod from the State of 
Massachusetts for the parking areas but it still needs to go through the rest of the state process.  
First Refusal Lot 4 Leominster Road – Mary noted the owner is not amenable to the property going to 
Conservation. The Commission discussed and were not interested in pursuing it.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L.  
To inform the Select Board that the Conservation Commission is not interested in pursuing Lot 4 
Leominster Road at this time.                                           Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Encroachment issues: Anna reported that there are no updates and the letters were all sent out.   
Hollis Rd updates- Mike L. reported that Chris Ruth has asked a contractor for a price on painting the 
trim, house and back of foundation. He noted that the Pollinator Habitat rescheduled their Open House to 
7/22 (rain date 7/23). He added that over the holiday, he and Rick Hilson installed a water reclamation  
system at the Hollis Road shed to collect rainwater.  
 
Administrative Determinations:  
45 Island Road – Anna shared pictures of the birch tree near the water that broke in half during a storm. 
The property owner removed the broken portion and would like to remove the rest of the tree, leaving the 
stump. Rich B. stated that he was ok since there are other trees there and as long as the stump is left.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L.  
===PAGE 4===
 
 
To approve the administrative determination to remove the damaged limb .                                           
Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
246 Prospect Street – Anna stated that the property owner wants to remove 5 trees at his lake access. 
They are large red maples in the 30’ buffer zone and are mostly dead and split. The rest of the trees are 
dead ash trees that are up against the fence, so there is no canopy. The property owner is concerned that 
the maple trees could fall on the dock or boat. They propose restoring the understory with blueberries. 
Rich B. asked to have this application presented as a Request for Determination of Applicabili ty. He 
added that this access was intended to be a 4’ pathway to the dock but the understory is getting cleared 
along Lake Whalom. Also there are sheds and chairs there.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jeff V . 
To deny the administrative determination and have them file for a n RDA.                                            
Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Certificates of Compliance:  
290 New West Townsend Road- Anna stated this was for a septic system with DEP # 208 -1271. She 
visited the site which has been reseeded, stabilized and all conditions met.  
Motion: Jeff V., Second: Mike L. 
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 290 West Townsend Rd .  
Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
238 Fire Road 16 – Anna stated this was for construction of a single family house, sewage disposal and 
driveway. They had issued an enforcement order for needing mitigation, grading and site plantings. She 
did a site visit and shared photos of the property with plantings and established seedings. Anna said that 
she is satisfied that everything was done to standards. Rich B. asked for a letter from the engineer  of 
record, stating the house was completed as permitted and a list of anything outside of the application. He 
added that they need to file a concurrent request with the DEP and to table the discussion to the next 
meeting. Butch Magurn (Homeowner) noted that Nadia came out last fall and recommended the COC. He 
will have the engineer change the verbiage on the letter and also noted that the site plan displayed was not 
the updated one. Butch  asked Rich B. to do another site visit.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L.  
To continue the request to 7/19/23.                                       Roll Call V ote was unanimous to approve. 
 
ENFORCEMENTS:  
Violations: EO 23 Cove Road – Anna reported that she received correspondence that they took down the 
greenhouse and did a site visit to confirm so. They still need to remove the parts out of the area.  
Public Comment: This is Anna’s last meeting and Mary thanked her for all her work for Conservation. 
The Commissioners wished her well. Anna thanked them and noted that her new part-time assistant will 
be starting on 7/1 , working 2 days a week.  
 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
To adjourn at 10:04 pm.                                                     Roll Call vote was unanimous to approve.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Jane Ranley  
Minutes Clerk 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
             
             
             
   