===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission  
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Mary Wilson Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Richard Bursch, 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche 
  Anna Petrie 
        Conservation Administrator 
Jeffrey Viviano  
Sam Welch, Associate Member       
 
January 4, 2023 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, RB, JV, CC, ML, MW, RT 
Absent:   
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements: 
Public Comment: John Fortune of Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. States his presence in regards to the 
previous concerns of the well use controlled by LWD. BP recuses himself from this discussion and MW is 
to act as Chair. JF stated he was out at the location to take water samples as well as take pictures. JF 
continued to share updated photos of the site to the commission. Photos consisted of hose placement, 
haybale placement, and possible erosion. 
 
Mark Bursch, Chairman of the Board of Water Commissioners, is present to represent LWD in regards to 
this matter. MB states that previously the superintendent of LWD and the Conservation Administrator at 
the time would meet and discuss the pumping of the well without having to file. MB also states that this 
pumping has been continuous throughout the year with the approval from the Conservation Admin, and 
also have tested the Lake water and well water. MB exclaims that this proposal of pumping does not allow 
their engineer firm to file anything with the Commission along with being a costly task. MB asks to 
continue past practices with the engineers, LWD superintendent, and Conservation Admin without having 
to file.  
RB asks to confirm that the LWD does not have accurate tests of the well water versus the Lake. 
MB confirms, only accuracy is manganese and iron. MB also stated that the levels of these substances 
tested to be higher in the Lake itself compared to the well water.  
RB asks if these tests results can be presented? 
MB confirms that the results can be provided to the Conservation Admin and asks welcomes JF to include 
his test findings.  
RB asks if the commission or admin have yet to receive any form of proposals for the well pumping 
activity? 
MB says there has never been any form of proposals submitted in the past and has usually always been in 
contact with the Conservation Admin and follow through with the recommendations made. MB continues 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
to state that this arrangement was made in order to save funds for the community.  
RB and MB continue to discuss the capacity of the well pumping throughout the years. 
RB addresses MW in regards to seeing no problem with fund submittals for an RDA. RB also states that the 
term and duration of this project warrants a review by the commission. 
Paula Bertram presented a comment that due to the duration of the upcoming project with Tighe & Bond, 
the recommendation of a filing is appropriate and LWD should be required just as any other public entity 
would.  
MB asks the commission, if an RDA submittal is required, to waive the abutter's notification due to the 
number of abutters and the expense.  
RT asks if the positioning of the haybales from the picture presentation was intentional? RT also asks if the 
water discharge can be redirected? 
MB replies that haybales should've been connected, though seem to be moved. MB also answers the second 
question with that there is a possibility of working through it alongside the Conservation Admin.  
JF states that the haybales should be removed and have the hose redirected to prevent any type of erosion. 
JF also suggests to have a better settle basin for the water.  
RB suggests a straw poll for an RDA submittal for the pumping of the well. 
MW asks for a straw poll in favor of an RDA submittal. 
RB, JV, CC, ML, RT, MW expressed favor of an RDA submittal. 
 
BP returns from his recusal.  
 
Minutes of previous meetings – December 7, 2022 RB/RT M/S to approve minutes. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 December 21, 2022 ML/MW M/S to approve minutes. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 
 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Nancy Malady for the replacement of one lakefront retaining 
wall and two non-lakefront retaining walls, the removal of an existing deck, and a 386 square foot addition to 
a single-family residential structure at 406 Sunset Lane (DEP #208-1284). 
 
BP states that this submittal has yet to have an issued DEP # as well as DEP comments. BP makes a standard 
statement that applicants forward a cancelled check to the DEP to expedite the issuance of a DEP with 
comments. 
 
Homeowners are present as well as Greg Roy of Dillis & Roy to represent them.  GR states that the property 
owners are planning on this lot to be their permanent residence. GR explains the layout of the house and that 
the homeowners intend on expanding the living space of the existing home, though using the existing deck as 
the footprint for the addition. The overall footprint will stay the same. The other proposed plans are to replace 
the existing rail tie retaining walls with natural stone walls. Erosion control description on plans is to show 
phases of work; Phase 1 (house) Phase II (retaining walls). GR points out the number of trees that are going to 
be removed that are in close proximity to the deck/proposed addition. 
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
JV asked if the Title 5 was passed once sold and the number of bedrooms in the home. 
 
GR states that it did pass Title 5 and is just one bedroom. 
 
JV asks if the construction of the wall will be done house-side or lake-side? 
 
GR states that they can get this answer from Brett Ramsden, who will be installing the wall.  
 
JV suggests replanting the trees, as well as expresses his agreement upon the addition as well as replacing the 
retaining walls. 
 
BP informs the commission that he had received a chat comment from Brett Ramsden at the time and confirms 
that the replacement of the wall will be done land-side. 
 
RB wants confirmation if there is to be a proposed basement level for the addition. 
 
GR says that the homeowners would like to have a basement level. 
 
GR describes the layout of the deck and porch, and which portions will be removed and kept.  
 
RB asked if any dry wells are proposed. 
 
GR states that there is an opportunity for that. 
 
RB proposes submitting replanting plan as well as construction schedule.  
 
MW asks specifically how many trees to be removed. 
 
GR states 6 trees. 
 
JV asks if this is going to be a complete tear down? 
 
GR states that the existing structure will stay, though some foundation work might be done. 
 
BP restates the suggested changes to be done for next continued hearing being: plan showing that the wall will 
be natural stone rather than block, proposal of dry wells, replanting plan and number of trees taken down, and 
construction schedule. 
 
JV suggests editing in possible plans for dock removal/replacements. 
 
Nancy Malady, homeowner, states that they will not be removing docks, though repair one of the docks. 
 
BP proposes that this NOI be continued to the next meeting and have a straw poll for viewpoints for next 
meeting. 
RB, JV, CC, ML, RT, MW in favor of proposed plans contingent upon receivingand considering comments 
from DEP. 
 
CC/ML M/S to continue NOI for 406 Sunset Lane for January 18th meeting. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve.  
 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
No continued hearings. 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
 
Election of Officers: 
BP opens election of a Chair. 
RB would like to nominate BP for Chairman of the 
Conservation Commission. 
No other nominations 
RT/MW M/S to elect Bob Pease as Chairman of 
the Conservation Commission. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 
BP opens election of Vice Chair. 
RB would like to nominate MW for Vice Chair of 
the Conservation Commission. 
No other nominations. 
RB/ML M/S to elect Mary Wilson as Vice 
Chairman of the Conservation Commission. 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
BP opens election of Clerk. 
RB would like to nominate RT for Clerk of the 
Conservation Commission. 
No other nominations. 
RB/ML M/S to elect Richard Tremblay as 
Clerk of the Conservation Commission. Roll 
Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
 
 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
104 Woodland Drive :  
BP explains that the new homeowners were not 
aware of the encroachment issue, that he inspected 
the area and it is now resolved.   
 
BP states that there is a new list of encroachments 
and present photos of said properties and 
encroachments. BP asks for authorization to 
request the Town Attorney send letters to these 
property owners.  
 
RB/ML M/S to have Town Attorney send out 
encroachment letters to the listed properties. 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Grant Updates: 
 
MW states that she, BP, and Greg Roy of Dillis & 
Roy did a site walk of the proposed areas for 
parking lot installations, especially for Table Rock. 
MW also states that these proposals need to be 
compliant with any accessibility regulations, 
moving forward. 
 
BP brings up the proposal for the Picinic Area at 
Small Town Forest that was discussed at a prior 
meeting. BP asks if that is an abandoned idea for 
the time being? 
 
MW confirms. 
 
BP says that there is a possibility for a proposed 
foot bridge at Harold Harley Wildlife Viewing 
Platform as well as a trail. BP has asked Greg Roy 
to come up with this proposal. BP says that there is 
a possibility for a wetland crossing as well at the 
frontage of Northfield Road. BP says that GR will 
have proposal quotes by next meeting. 
  
 
Budget Update 
BP presented the budget report. He said there is 
currently $21,061 in the Timber Rights Fund and 
an expected $6,000 from the Hawes harvest and 
expected $21,000 from the Rayno harvest, minus 
Gary Goldrups fees, will be coming in. BP said the 
balance on the Hollis Road revolving fund is at 
$60,000.  
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML stated JNR Glass had finished and sealed the 
newly installed windows on December 29. ML 
continues to state how JNR generously helped the 
tenant configure on fixing the locks on the 
windows. Lastly, ML provides the date of the 
furnace cleaning which will be January 16.  
 
Administrative Determination: 
 
70 Pine Hill Road- 
AP presents Administrative Determination for 70 
Pine Hill Road. Property located on Lake Whalom 
to have 2 trees limbed which is directly impacting 
the home’s roof whilst in repair. AP continues to 
ensure that homeowners do not wish to remove 
trees, but branches trimmed.  
 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   
 
RB/RT M/S to approve Administrative 
Determination at 70 Pine Hill Road. Roll Call 
vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
338 Sunset Lane- 
AP presents Administrative Determination for 338 
Sunset Lane. Property located on Lake Shirley to 
have 2 trees removed; one with a large broken 
branch and another that has directly fallen into the 
lake itself (with base still on shore) 
RB asks if the broken branch is going to be 
removed off the live tree or if the whole live tree is 
going to be removed along with the other fallen 
tree? 
AP replies that both trees will be removed.  
RB asks how close the trees are to the Wetland. 
AP replies that the fallen one is directly in the lake 
and the broken one is within 30ft. 
JV comments the conditions of the trees as well as 
the intentions of removal. 
AP shares photos of the trees and their conditions.  
RB/CC M/S to approve Administrative 
Determination at 338 Sunset Lane. Roll Call 
vote, unanimous to approve with JV recused. 
 
 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 48 Oak Ridge: Will have file submittal by 
January 16th 
EO 54 Pine Grove: Still submitting 
EO 23 Cove Road: Will be updating 
enforcement order  
EO 336 Arbor St: Submitted forms; On for 
January 18 meeting 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: Commission 
requests to have timeline submittal by January 
18 meeting.  
 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
BP sent letter saying that the Conservation 
Commission had spent $1800 on the driveway 
permit/engineered plans and hope the Select 
Board could identify a source of funding to 
hire a contractor. 
 
Timber Sales 
BP and 4 loggers from King Loggers met at 
Northfield site. Gary Goldrup stated at this 
meeting that there was a $2200 overrun of 
product.  
BP asks AP to check to make sure checks were 
received. BP states there is a possible new lot 
for a new harvest and landing area, which is an 
amendment for the Forest Cutting plan. 
RB/ML M/S to amend Forest Cutting Plan. Roll 
Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
CC/ML M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 8:49pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is January 18, 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 