===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Mary Wilson, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk 
Richard Bursch  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche  Anna Petrie 
Jeffrey Viviano         Conservation Administrator 
 
 
April 5, 2023 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, MW, RT, ML, CC, JV, RB 
Absent:   
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements: N/A 
Public Comment:  
Ginny Albertson is present to discuss Earth Day activities at the Pollinator Garden for April 22nd & 23rd . 
GA states there will be a trash pickup, weeding, clean out culvert, and planting seedlings. GA is requesting 
chicken wire for fencing protection for the seedlings along with stakes to anchor the fencing. GA is 
requesting approval from the Commission to spend no more than $150 on these supplies for the Earth Day 
activities.  
MW/ML M/S to approve of the expenditure of $150 from the Hawes Gift Fund for Pollinator Garden 
Earth Day activities. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
Amanda Boyle is present to discuss encroachment issues at 950 Chase Road. AB states that when the home 
was bought by them, the shed encroachment was already present, and they do not currently utilize it. AB 
also states that it was requested that the shed be removed and would open this up for discussion. 
 
BP asks confirmation that the shed is currently not being used? 
 
AB confirms and states that the shed has been on the property 10-15 years before moving in. 
 
BP asks if the Commission could be permitted to access the property to remove the shed? 
 
AB confirms. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
 
BP states that he will follow up with the town’s attorney in this matter.  
 
 
Minutes of previous meetings – March 15st ,2023 MW/JV M/S to approve. Roll Call vote, unanimous 
to approve. 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a request for an Amended Order of Conditions by Brian 
and Cynthia Ritchie for proposed changes to a previously approved dock at 137 Flynn Road 
(DEP #208-1242). 
 
Brian and Cynthia Ritchie to represent themselves on this amendment request. CR states that the 
currently issued Order of Conditions permits work for a retaining wall and a deck. CR says that 
the request is for the proposed deck to be changed to a screened porch that will be within the 
already approved footprint, smaller than the approved deck. 
 
BP asks if there was an existing deck already there? 
 
CR states that there was a deck, and it was taken down with a few timbers left. 
 
MW asks if the approved deck was to be put on top of the existing foundation where the original 
deck was on? 
 
CR confirms. 
 
RT asks for the size of the newly proposed structure. 
 
BR states 18 feet long 13 feet deep. 
 
RT asks how that compares to the already approved deck? 
 
BR says it was originally approved for 30 feet; 12 feet wide. 
 
RB asks if this is changing from a semi-pervious to impervious structure? 
 
CR confirms. 
 
RB asks for the solution for runoff from the roof? 
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
CR says there will be a metal roof installed with a gutter system with the addition of a dry well. 
 
MW asks if there needs to be a number for storage for the dry well if requested? 
 
BP states that typically it's included with the plans in regard to those types of systems. 
 
MW states that she would like those types of numbers to be included in the plans. 
 
BP asks for a straw poll for the commission's thoughts on moving forward with this application, 
either being approved under the contingency that the plans be updated or to be continued to the 
next meeting to present the updated plans. 
 
RB is not prepared to vote on this application due to application specifics. 
 
JV, CC, MW, RT, ML agree. 
 
CR asks what should be added to the application. 
 
BP states the plans/diagram shown should be updated to show dimensions of the new porch, 
steps, and drainage system.  
 
MW adds to make sure to include volume of dry well as well.  
 
CR asks to submit the new plans? 
 
AP says that these plans can be emailed directly to her. 
 
RB states to make sure the plans include any changes that are different from approved plans.  
 
 
ML/RT M/S to continue hearing to April 19th meeting with updated plans. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
  
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
N/A 
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
   Update on Timber Rights Fund  
N/A 
     Earth Day 2023 
MW says there have been responses for Earth Day 
activities, with numbers looking like 30 
participants. MW also requests budget support for 
another AD in the ledger for Earth Day. 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
 
JV/RB M/S to approve expenditure for $85 
from the Timber Rights Fund for the 
Lunenburg Ledger for an AD for Earth Day. 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
BP announces that the state has extended virtual 
meetings ability and asks for any comments from 
the Commission. 
 
BP states that both Catie Childs and Rich Bursch 
both have expiring commission terms for 
reappointment. BP also states there has been new 
submittals of talent bank forms for new 
commissioners/associate member.  
 
CC states that she will not be renewing her term.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
950 Chase Road - discussed earlier in the meeting.  
315 Lancaster Ave 
110 Pleasant St, Lot 2 - AP states that she had 
visited 110 Pleasant to confirm that the 
encroachments were removed; AP confirms.  
26 Mulpus Road  
 
Grant Updates: 
No Updates. 
 
Budget Update 
No Updates. 
 
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML states that he reached out to Montey Tech 
regarding working on the cabinets, though 
typically they do not work on properties with 
tenants. 
 
BP states that Chris Ruth, facilities director, can be 
contacted in regard to having any more work done.  
 
  
  
Administrative Determination: 
N/A 
 
 
 
Extension Request Permits: 
N/A 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
178 Peninsula Dr 
 
AP states that the property was approved with an 
Order of Conditions and finished with an as-built 
in 2018. The home is on the market and the 
realtors are requesting a Certificate of Compliance 
in order to sell smoothly. AP also states that the 
site is stabilize.  
 
RB/CC M/S to approve Certificate of 
Compliance. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
  
 
 
 
Notice of Project Change: 
N/A 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 23 Cove Road: Will remain open until 
greenhouse is removed. 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: Seth Donahoe 
from Dillis & Roy along with property owner 
updated AP that plans a being finalized for 
submittal. 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
BP states there is a wait till June to hear back 
from DPW. 
 
 
Timber Sales 
N/A 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 
BP proposes plans for updating trails on Table 
Rock. BP suggests closing off certain trail ends 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   
 
that do not continue along with developing 
new connector trials. BP also states some 
boardwalks might need to be installed for 
crossings.  
 
MW states some trails that are not mapped 
historically might have been used by 
snowriders, though they are not currently 
maintained.  
 
JV states that he is acquainted with an 
individual that is nearby this property that 
probably would be willing to help with this 
property.  
 
MW states that there is a lot of evidence of 
ATV activity on Table Rock and asks for 
further discussion to solve this problem.  
 
 
 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
ML asks for updates on 4 Gabes Place in regard to 
filling the wetlands. ML also states that the 
grassland bird survey is possibly scheduled for the 
following week.  
 
AP states that she was unaware of the concerns for 
4 Gabes place and will be setting up a time to 
conduct a site visit.  
 
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
MW/CC M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 8:08 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is April 19th, 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 