===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission  
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Mary Wilson, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk 
Richard Bursch  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche  Anna Petrie 
Jeffrey Viviano         Conservation Administrator 
       
 
February 15, 2023 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, RB, ML, JV, CC, RT 
Absent:  MW 
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements:  
Public Comment:  
  
Minutes of previous meetings – February 1st, 2023 RT/ML M/S to approve. Roll Call vote, unanimous 
to approve. 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 
23 Cove Road  
Robert Galloni is in attendance to represent himself. 
 
BP states that the Town attorney had suggested that the enforcement order be renewed with the correct 
violations. BP also states that a couple meetings ago RG informed the commission that it is their intention to 
take down the greenhouse in the spring and when weather is permitting. BP states that the Enforcement Order 
will stay open until the Galloni’s have taken down the greenhouse and informed the Conservation 
Administrator.  
 
RG confirms. RG also has additional comments that he plans on working with the DPW in regards to 
stormwater and the flooding occurring on or adjacent to the property. RG states that they possibly will file for 
a Request for Determination of Applicability in the future.  
 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
No New Hearings 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
No Continued Hearings 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
 
Authorization of beaver site assessment: 
 
BP would like to have authorization to hire a 
beaver specialist/consultant for the wildlife 
viewing area for Cowdry Conservation area.  
 
ML/RT M/S to approve authorization of hiring 
beaver consultant for viewing platform at 
Cowdry Conservation Area. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 
BP presents Timber Rights Fund balance of 
$20,639.00 and future anticipated dues and surplus 
from the beaver solutions, trails grant, and Rayno 
timber harvesting.   
 
BP would like authorization for boundary markers 
purchases for property boundaries on conservation 
land.  
JV/CC M/S to approve authorization on PO for 
Voss Signs boundary markers for no more than 
$400 in regards to Lunenburg Conservation 
Land boundaries. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
123 Old Farm Road - AP states that the trailer has 
been moved. BP requests to have property taken 
off encroachment list.  
950 Chase Road – n/a 
315 Lancaster Ave – n/a 
110 Pleasant St, Lot 2 – n/a 
26 Mulpus Road – AP states that the property 
owners have taken down the treehouse and fence 
as of 2/15.  BP asks to keep the address on list until 
shed is removed and AP confirms that objects have 
been removed from site.  
 
 
Grant Updates: 
No Updates. 
 
Budget Update 
No Updates. 
 
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML has received two quotes estimating around 
$2000 for replacing carpet and waiting on a third 
quote. ML also states that portions of sub floors 
are rotted.  
 
BP suggests that the new town facilities director 
may be able to help with future maintenance work 
on the Hollis Road residence..  
 
ML states that he has sent out an email reply to 
Emily Merlino in regards to removal of tractors on 
property along with further removal of debris.  
  
Administrative Determination: 
N/A 
 
Extension Request Permits: 
N/A 
Certificates of Compliance: 
N/A 
 
Notice of Project Change: 
N/A 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 48 Oak Ridge: Will be on for March 1st 
meeting 
EO 54 Pine Grove: Still submitting. 
EO 23 Cove Road: Will remain open until 
greenhouse is removed. 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: Seth Donahoe 
from Dillis & Roy updated AP that plans a 
being finalized for submittal. 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
 
BP states that he is getting a quote from the 
DPW.  
 
Timber Sales 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 BP mentions email sent out for possible 
volunteers for putting up signs and received 
responses. 
 
 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
BP states that Parks and Recreation for the town 
plan on having a parcel on Lake Shirley transferred 
from Open Space to them for the use of public boat 
ramp/launch. BP continues to state that 
surrounding property owners have come forward 
with complaints in response to this proposal. 
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
RB/CC M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 7:23 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is March 1st, 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 