===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
Mary Wilson,  Chair                                                                                                                               Tel: (978)582-4146
Jennifer Pewtherer , Vice Chair                                                                                                               960 Massachusetts Ave
Michael Larouche , Clerk                                                                                                                        Lunenburg, MA 01462
Richard Bursch                                                                             Sophia Dorow
Jeffrey Viviano                                                                                  C onservation Administration
Chris St. Germain                                                                                                                                  Vacan cy
                                                                                                                                                                 Conservation Assistant
August 7 , 202 4 , 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE
Minutes
Roll Call : Jenny P., Chris S. , Mike L., Jeff V., Mary W.  and Sophie Dorow (Admin.)
Absent:  Rich B
Call to Order at 7pm  by Mary W.
Announcements  & P ublic Comment- none
Minutes  of previous meetings – 7 /1 0 /2 4  and 7 /17/ 2 4
Motion: Chris S ., Second: Jenny P
To approve the minutes of 7 /1 0 /2 4 .
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Mike-aye, Chris -aye, and Mary-aye.
Motion: Jenny P. , Second: Chris S.
To approve the minutes of 7 /17 /2 4 .
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
APPOINTMENTS /HEARINGS
Update on Mass Trails Grant: Mary stated that Bob Pease could not attend but  he reached out to Mass 
Trails administration for clarification on the contract. They will not need 3 quotes for the proposed service
because that only applies to non-profits. The Commission can work through the town processes.
Motion: Mike L., Second: Jenny P.
To appo int Bob Pease as their representative, working with Julie and  the Horizontal Engineering 
firm that has been designated to provide service to the town for this planning grant.
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
899 Flat Hill Rd -Field Change –  Jack Maloney (Dillis & Roy)  screen-shared the site plan and noted this
came before the Commission last October. The applicants renovated the house, adding a 2 nd  floor  and 
rebuilt the decks, with crushed stone and timber frame below. Jack shared photos of the new decks and 
added that they were done with helical piles –  no concrete. Slats in the decking will allow water to go to 
the recharge are a below. A small section (188 sq ft) was added in the 100 ’ buffer zone. Jack clarified that 
it was his mistake that he missed showing the larger deck in October.
Motion: Chris S., Second: Jenny P.
To approve the Field Change for 899 Flat Hill Rd. as presented.
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
1147 Mass Ave –  w as  not heard  due to inadequate abutter notification and legal ad placement.
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS
===PAGE 2===
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on behalf of Trustees of: Village at Flat Hills, Request for 
Determination of Applicability for the project proposal for Parcel number 84-001 , detention pond 
maintenance for the area of 0 Courtland Circle (Continued from June 5 th  to August 7 th ).  Sophia stated 
that she had not received an updated plan yet. Wayne Gariep y (32 Courtland Circle & Trustee) reported 
that Brian Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) has the plan , showing no wetlands crossed, but he is on 
vacation.  Wayne requested a continuance to 8/21.
Motion: Mike L., Second: Jenny P.
To continue 0 Courtland Circle to 8/21.
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearing  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  for  Timothy  K.  Gendron  the  Revocable  Trust,  the  project
proposal  is  for  construction  of  a  residence  duplex,  associated  driveway  and  drainage  features.  The  location
is  within  the  edges  of  Bordering  Vegetated  Wetland  and  buffer  of  intermittent  stream  at  Lot  2  Cross  Road
DEP  #208-1326  (Continued  from  June  5 th  to  August  7 th .)  Chris  Anderson  (Hannigan  Engineering)
screen-shared  the  site  plan  and  noted  they  addressed  the  DEP  comments.   They  did  the  soil  testing,  provided
soil logs, staked the building box and staked the 50 ’ and 30 ’ buffer zones.
Motion: Chris S ., Second: Mike L.
To approve the NOI for Lot 2 Cross Road  with a Standard Order of Conditions.
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
(Jeff V. joined the meeting.)
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearing  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  by  Timothy  Gendron  for  the  proposal  of  construction  of  a
single  family  home  and  associated  amenities  within  100 -foot  wetland  buffer  zone  and  within  the  50  foot  no
build  zone  at  60  Cross  Road  Lot  12A  (Map99,  Parcel  12).  DEP  #208-132 9  (Continued  from  July  10th  to
August  7th ). Chris  Anderson  (Hannigan  Engineeering)  screen-shared  the  site  plan  for  a  new  single  family
home.  They  did  the  soil  testing  to  show  it  complies  with  the  stormwater  system  set  backs  and  off-sets.  The
buffer  zones  and  building  box  have  been  staked  also.  The  Stormwater  Maintenance  plans  are  included  in
the  NOI  package  and  they  have  provided  a  stormwater  review.  Chris  A.  also  screen-shared  the  map  of  the
overall subdivision and delineated wetlands. 
Motion: Jenny P ., Second: Chris S.
To approve the NOI for Lot 12A Cross Road  with a Standard Order of Conditions.
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Jeff-V., Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearing  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  by  Timothy  Gendron  for  the  proposal  of  construction  of  a
new  addition  and  driveway  onto  the  existing  single -family  home  w ithin  100-foot  wetland  buffer  zone  and
within  the  50  foot  no  build  zone  at  60  Cross  Road  Lot  12 B  (Map99,  Parcel  12).  DEP  #208-132 7
(Continued  from  July  10th  to  August  7th  ).  Chris  Anderson  (Hannigan  Engineering)  screen-shared  the  site
plan  for  an  addition  to  an  existing  home,  with  garage  under  and  new  driveway.  He  noted  that  they  have
staked  out  the  limit  of  work  and  buffer  zones  in  the  proposed  disturbed  area.  Chris  pointed  out  the  2 ’ wide
filter strip of crushed stone along the driveway which will help to slow down runoff from the site.
Motion: Chris S., Second: Jeff V.
To approve the NOI for Lot 12B Cross Road  with a Standard Order of Conditions.
Roll Call Vote: Jenny-aye, Jeff-V., Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
===PAGE 3===
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  for a Request for Determination for P.J. Keating Company, the 
project proposal is for replacement and maintenance work connected to the existing pump house. The 
location is within 100 feet of bordering vegetated wetland and Priority Habitat # 1738 related to 495 
Leominster-Shirley Road.  (Continued from June 5 th  to August 7 th .) –  Ryan Proctor  (Dillis & Roy) 
reported that t hey forwarded the letter from National Heritage regarding the  building and exemption from 
MESA review to Sophie. They also submitted the MESA checklist for construction of the replacement 
well. The casing for the well was previously installed  for the well components. The building will be more 
impactful . They are still in the review period for the well replacement and expect i t by the end of the 
month. 
Motion: Mike L ., Second: Je nny P .
To continue 495 Leominster-Shirley Road  to 8/ 21 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Jenny -aye, Jeff-aye, Mike -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on an Abbreviated Notice of Resource Area Delineation by Kevin 
O ’Brien  at 390 Howard Street (DEP # 208-1304) (Con tinued from June 5 th  to August 7 th .) –  Sophie 
stated that they asked for a continuance to 9/4/24.
Motion: Mike L. , Second: Chris S.
To continue 390 Howard Street  to 8/ 7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Jeff-aye, Mike-aye,  Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.  (Jenny not able to vote.)
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearin g  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  by  Steve  Powell  for  the  construction  of  a  single  family  and
associated  site  work  at  171  Arbor  Street  (DEP  #  208-1308).  (Continued  from  Ju ne  5 th  to  August  21 st.)  -
requested to  continue to 8/21/24.
Motion: Mike L. , Second: Chris S.
To continue 171 Arbor Street  to 8/7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Jeff-aye, Mike-aye,  Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.  (Jenny not able to vote.)
-------
Administra tive Determinations:
-- 54 Pine Acres Rd.  –  Sophie  stated that they are requesting to remove 2 dead trees  on the edge of 
Hickory Hills lake. She is in favor o f removing one tree but leaving the root system intact for erosion 
control. She recommends leaving the second tree because it poses no risk to people or structures . Mike 
applauded the Administrator for saving a tree that is beneficial to the habitat. Sophie shared photos of the 
trees and Jeff questioned why they would not remove a dead tree. The Commission discussed  and vote d .
Motion: Jeff V ., Second: Chris S.
To take both trees  down.
Roll Call Vote- Chris-aye, Mike- no , Jeff-aye, Jenny-aye, and Mary -aye.
Certificates of Compliance:
-- 38 Oak Ridge Road  –  Sophie noted that the site is stabilized with a retaining wall and 2 stairways, per 
the as-built plan. They have corrected the erosion into the lake and she would approve it.
Motion: Chris S ., Second: Je ff V .
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 38 Oak Ridge Road .
Roll Call Vote- Jenny -aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
ENFORCEMENT S :
===PAGE 4===
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)
-- 40 Fire Road  12  –  Sophie reached out  to tell them that they need to complete the pro cess by adding 
loam, seeding, adding a boulder barricade and removing personal property in the buffer zone. The NOI 
expired mid-July and they have been told multiple times what they have to do. Mary stated that they will 
need to resubmit as a NOI to add loam and seed. Next step is to contact the Town Attorney to send a letter
to confirm the old NOI expired, they need to refile  and close within 30 days. Mary documented that the y 
had put in gravel and asphalted over it. 
-- 390 Howard St .- Sophie  stated that she added this because there has been obvious runoff , erosion and 
expansion of wetlands on the property. This was all noted during her site walk with the wetlands scientist . 
Sophie talked via email to Matt Marro who said they will be putting up erosion control barriers in th ose 
problem areas this week. He will provide photos and a report by next week. Sophie has had no 
correspondence with Mr. O ’Brien. 
-- 205 Sunset (Beers lot)-  Mike inquired about the 7/24 DEP meeting on site. Mary, Chris , Jeff , and 
Sophie attended and Mary noted that DEP asked questions about the footings, placement and how the 
dock landed on the lake floor. The DEP will have a deci sion by the end of August.
Emergency Certification — 37 Fire Rd  19 - Sophie  was contacted by some one who was concerned about
some unhealthy trees leaning towards the main power lines. Unitil was not responsive in dealing with it 
and she found out the person who contacted her, took the trees down. She will have them file a retroactive
Administrative Determination. 
NEW BUSINESS :
Topics unknown 48 hours in advance of meeting -
Mary noted that Bob is still active as a lead volunteer in Stewardship.  He would like to close out purchase
orders by paying Maki and Beaver Management invoices. Eze quiel (Town Accountant) said that the 
Commission needs to vote to approve a budget , so the office can file the budget to allocate funds for the 
fiscal year.
-- Mary noted that the 8/5/24 balance for the Timber Rights Fund  is $17,548.32 . Bob suggested 
budgeting $14K for professional services  (Engineering fees)  and $3, 548.32 for supplies.
Motion: Jenny P., Second: Jeff V.
To accept the Timber Rights Fund budget proposal.
Roll Call Vote : Jenny-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
-- Mary  noted that the balance for the Hawes Fund  was $36,484 . Bob suggested budgeting $30K for 
professional services and $6,484 for supplies .  They have allocated up to $2,500 for the new tractor under 
supplies. Mike said the mower cost $2,300 . He also noted that there are 2 other projects at 123 Hollis 
Road – the kitchen upgrade and addressing any roof issues. Mary replied that those projects would come 
out of the professional services amount.
Motion: Mike L ., Second: Je nny P .
To accept the Hawes  Fund budget proposal  as advocated.
Roll Call Vote : Jen n y-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
Conservation Commission Meeting Dates — Mary  and Jenny looked at Sophie ’s list . In January, they 
will meet on the 2 nd  and 4 th  Wednesday  (1/8/25 and 1/22/25) to avoid holiday conflicts. Mary asked 
Sophie to add 7/2, 7/17, 8/6 and 8/20/25 to the schedule also.
Motion: Mike L ., Second: Je ff V .
To accept the Meeting Dates schedule .
Roll Call Vote : Jen n y-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
OLD BUSINESS :
===PAGE 5===
Title Searches  –  no update.
E ncroachment I ssue s : no updates
Chair-  Mary  stated that she was willing to be the Chair again  and  Mike nominated Mary as Chair.
Motion: Jenny P., Second: Jeff V.
To elect Mary W. as Chair.                   Roll Call Vote: Chris-aye, Mike-aye, Jeff-aye and Jenny-aye.
Mary added that Bob will continue to support and coach her as Chair.
Hollis Road Residence  Updates  –  Mike reported that Don Gagne (Asst. Facilities) purchased the new 
lawn mower for the Habitat and 123 Hollis Rd. The lawn has been cut and the property looks nice. He 
also gave a shout-out to Nick Pirro for cleaning the water out of the carburetor  on the self-propelled 
mower, which works now. Jeff asked if they will be increasing the rent at the 123 Hollis Road house. 
Mary replied that Bob talked to Heather who said she was concerned that would not be consistent with the
terms of the original trust. Mary will wait for until a new Town Manager comes in but will also reach out 
for advice from Town Counsel. She suggested charging market rate but discounting after receiving 
validated work logs from the tenant. 
C ommittee Reports –  no updates.
Mary acknowledged all the effort of Commissioners to attend the meetings.
M otion: Jeff V ., Second: Jenny P.
To adjourn at 8:40 pm.
Roll Call Vote- Jen n y-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary-aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Jane Ranley
Minutes Clerk