===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Conservation Commission
Mary Wilson, Interim Chair                                                                                                                   Tel: (978)582-4146
Jennifer Pewtherer , Vice Chair                                                                                                               960 Massachusetts Ave
Michael Larouche , Clerk                                                                                                                        Lunenburg, MA 01462
Richard Bursch                                                                             Sophia Dorow
Jeffrey Viviano                                                                                  C onservation Administration
Chris St. Germain                                                                                                                                  Stephanie Dondero
                                                                                                                                                                 Conservation Assistant
Ju ly  17 , 202 4 , 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE
Minutes
Roll Call : Jenny P., Rich B., Chris S. , Mike L., Mary W.  and Sophie Dorow (Admin.)
Call to Order at 7pm  by Mary W.
Announcements  –  Mary  noted that she resigned as cha ir but is host ing the meeting. She reported that 
Bob Pease resigned from the Commission and it is a sad day. She thanked Bob for his hard work , 
d edication , and she appreciated his support. Bob will be missed.
P ublic Comment- Rich  said that Bob was a ball of energy and a great asset to the town. He hopes that 
Bob will follow up with his trail work projects. He will be missed. 
Minutes  of previous meetings –  6/21/23 and 8/2/23
Motion: Mike L., Second: Jenny P
To approve the minutes of 6/21/23.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny-aye  and Mary-aye.
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jenny P
To approve the minutes of 8/2/23.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny-aye and Mary-aye.
APPOINTMENTS
Conservation Commission Reorganization - The Commission discussed and Jenny volunteered to be 
Clerk or Vice-Chair.  Mary agreed to run the meetings for the time being.  (Chris joined the meeting.)
Motion:  Rich B., Second: Mike L.
To elect Jenny as Vice-Chair.
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Chris -aye and Mary-aye.  (Jenny abstained)
Clerk –  Rich nominated Mike  L.  as Clerk.
Motion:  Rich B., Second: Chris S .
To elect Mike L. as Clerk .
Roll Call Vote: Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny-aye, Chris-aye and Mary-aye. ( Mike  abstained )
Chair-- will be tabled for now. Mary will host meeting for time being.
New Hearings –  899 Flat Hill Rd and 1147 Mass Ave –  were  not heard  as they have not met the 
advertising time-frame standards.
Requests for Continuanc e:
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearing  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  by  Timothy  Gendron  for  the  proposal  of  construction  of  a
single  family  home  and  associated  amenities  within  100 -foot  wetland  buffer  zone  and  within  the  50  foot  no
===PAGE 2===
build  zone  at  60  Cross  Road  Lot  12A  (Map99,  Parcel  12).  DEP  #208-132 9  (Continued  from  July  10th  to
August 7th ).
Motion: Jenny P ., Second: Rich B .
To conti nue 60  Cross Rd . Lot 12A  to 8 /7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye , Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearing  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  by  Timothy  Gendron  for  the  proposal  of  construction  of  a
new  addition  and  driveway  onto  the  existing  single -family  home  w ithin  100-foot  wetland  buffer  zone  and
within  the  50  foot  no  build  zone  at  60  Cross  Road  Lot  12 B  (Map99,  Parcel  12).  DEP  #208-132 7
(Continued from July 10th to August 7 th  ).
Motion: Rich B ., Second: Chris S .
To conti nue 60 Cross Rd. Lot 12 B  to 8 /7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on behalf of  Trustees of: Village at Flat Hills, Request for 
Determination of Applicability for the project proposal for Parcel number 84-001 , detention pond 
maintenance for the area of 0 Courtland Circle  (Continued from June 5 th  to July 17 th ).   Wayne Gariep y 
(32 Courtland Circle & Trustee @ The Village)  reported that the town hired an engineer to complete a 
study which was held up by not being able to survey  the pond. Brian Marchetti ( McCarty Engineering) 
added that the survey  was delayed because the basin was too full but they have the measurements now. It 
was built in the early 2000 ’s and has accumulated some sedi ment in the last 15+ years. The goal is to 
perform grubbing out maintenance  to restore the volume as originally designed. The basin is in the buffer 
zone , no wetlands will be crossed  and they are just asking for permission to clean it out. Brian noted that 
he just received a drawing and they have a n  O&M plan from the original approval, which he will supply 
to the office . Sophie screen-shared the plan and an aerial photo. Wayne added that the sludge will be 
removed from the site by the Contractor. 
Motion: Rich B. , Second: Jenny P.
To  continue  Parcel  #  84-001  to  8/7/24  and  provide  the  O&M  plan,  a  letter  updated  that  the  sludge
will be removed off-site , no wetlands crossed and the updated plan proposal with limit of work.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearing  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  for  Timothy  K.  Gendron  the  Revocable  Trust,  the  project
proposal  is  for  construction  of  a  residence  duplex,  associated  driveway  and  drainage  features.  The  location
is  within  the  edges  of  Bordering  Vegetated  Wetland  and  buffer  of  intermittent  stream  at  Lot  2  Cross  Road
DEP #208-1326 (Continued from June 5 th ).  No one was present, so continued to 8/7/24.
Motion: Chris S ., Second: Jenny P .
To continue Lot 2 Cross Road  to 8/ 7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on behalf of  FWP Realty Partners on behalf of Kevin Hill Landings 
Development, LLC for a Notice of Intent for a residential subdivision within the 100 ft. wetland buffer 
zone with paved driveways and a bio-retention basin for the area of 791 Mass Ave.  DEP # 208- 1328 
Continued from June 5 th .- Jonat han Collette ( Haley & Ward)- screen-shared  the site plan for the old 
Stone Farm store site  with 3 lots with 2-family houses with  driveways  off Mass Ave . Each will have a 
===PAGE 3===
bio-retention basin  for Stormwater. Sophie stated she did a s ite walk with Matt Marro  and verified the 
locat ion of all f lags .  Jon athan noted they received a DEP number with no comments . T he plan indicates 
the silt fencing and straw wattles for erosion protection. Sophie noted that she could not find the stakes 
for the buffer zones but the site has very dense vegetation.
Motion: Rich B. , Second: Jeff V .
To approve the NOI as submitted with a Standard Order of Conditions for 791 Mass Ave.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  for a Request for Determination for P.J. Keating Company, the 
project proposal is for replacement and maintenance work connected to the existing pump house. The 
location is within 100 feet of bordering vegetated wetland and Priority Habitat # 1738 related to 495 
Leominster-Shirley Road.  (Continued from June 5 th .) –  Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) screen- shared the site 
plan filed with the RDA  and noted they were hired to do the d e lin eation. They filed a letter with NHESP , 
which replied that the building is exempt from MESA but the well head was not. Greg said that they filed 
a project review checklist with NHESP and it is pending. He asked if the Commission could go forward 
with the negative determination on the RDA since the building was exempt. Mary replied that the office 
needed a copy of the letter from NHESP.  Ken Dow (Environmental Compliance Manager for PJ Keating) 
noted that the letter was sent to A. Aubrey on 6/25/24 in error. Mary stated that DEP and the head of 
NHESP ask ed that the Commission not close out requests that are pending  their decisions so they can add 
their conditions to the Commission ’s. She asked Greg to update the drawing to show where materials will
be staged .
Motion: Rich B. , Second: Jeff V.
To continue 495 Leominster-Shirley Road  to 8/ 7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on an Abbreviated Notice of Resource Area Delineation by Kevin 
O ’Brien  at 390 Howard Street (DEP # 208-1304) (Con tinued from June 5 th ) –  Sophie noted that there 
was a visit on 7/9 with Chuck Caron but she could not attend. She thought Matt Marro would be attending
tonight and will reach out to him. 
Motion: Rich B. , Second: Jenny P .
To continue 390 Howard Street  to 8/ 7 /24.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing  on a Notice of Intent by Stefan McSweeny for the construction of a 
single family home and associated site work at 255 Sunny Hill Road (DEP #208-1320). (Continued 
from J une  5th .)  Brian  Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) and Mary Ann DiPinto (3 Oaks Environmental).
Brian screen-shared the site plan and noted they did some design modifications , met with the abutter and 
met with Bob Pease in March to review the wetland lines. In April, the Commission requested a 3 rd  party 
review  which was done by Goddard Engineering  in June. Brian said he recently met with Sophie and 
Goddard ’s wetland scientist . The surveyor made modifications to 4 or 5 flags this morning. They all agree
now on the wetland delineation and the site plan was updated.  The proposed house is still outside of the 
50 ’ buffer. Brian pointed out the new flag locations and noted that the stormwater runoff from abutters  is 
making the wetland vegetation creep up the hill to where the off-site drainage trench is dumping water. 
They will be doing 1,700 sq ft of wetland fill for the driveway, which is 300 sq ft more than first 
calculated. Mary Ann DiPinto noted that the soils are all upland soil and any wetland plants on the 
neighbor ’s property is due to the amount of water coming into the property. She added that this design 
===PAGE 4===
will take the water  through the driveway and direct it to the wetlands. Brian stated that they are working 
with Mr. Paton to route water through the PVC drain to discharge into the wetlands. Sophie said the 
delineation makes sense but was concerned about how a ll the water will affect the wetlands . Brian and 
Mary Ann replied that it is the same water that has always flowed there. Brian also noted the 3,584 sq ft 
area for replication planting , to offset the wetland fill.
Ken Paton ( 290 Leominster Road)  –  pointed out that the drawing shows the 6 ’’ drain in  the wrong 
location  and Brian will make that change. The Commission asked to have the location of the drain 
verified and updated on the plan. 
 Motion: Rich B. , Second: Jeff V.
To approve the NOI with the special condition that the 6 ”  drain pipe location is updated  on the 
drawing and submitted to the administrator prior to the drain pipe being installed .
Discussion:  Jeff asked who was responsible for maintaining the drain and Brian replied that a 
maintenance easement agreement would be on the deed. 
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.  (Jenny could not vote)
Pursuant  to  MGL  ch  131,  s  40  as  amended  and  the  Town  of  Lunenburg  Wetlands  Protection  and  Municipal
Bylaws  a  public  hearin g  on  a  Notice  of  Intent  by  Steve  Powell  for  the  construction  of  a  single  family  and
associated  site  work  at  171  Arbor  Street  (DEP  #  208-1308).  (Continued  from  Ju ne  5th .)  Brian  Marchetti
(McCarty  Engineering)  stated  that  they  have  been  working  with  the  attorneys  and  the  abutter  to  purchase
11 ’ of  frontage  to  work  out  a  common  driveway.  They  will  be  going  before  the  ZBA  to  allow  the  abutter  to
grant  the  land  before  they  can  finalize  the  plan  and  asked  to  continue  to  8/21/24.  Brian  will  come  back  with
the  revised  NOI  plan  that  will  be  significantly  le ss  of  an  impact,  due  to  the  process  with  NHESP  and
removing  a  significant  portion  of  the  property  from  development  due  to  the  presence  of  the  Blanding ’s
Turtle . There will be work in the buffer zone for only 1 house.
Motion: Rich B. , Second: Mike L.
To continue to 8/21/24.
Roll Call Vote- Chris-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Mary -aye.  (Jenny could not vote)
-------
Administra tive Determinations:
-- 67 Peninsula Drive –  Sophie  stated the proposal is to remove 4 Hemlock trees that are diseased and a 
half dead white pine. They will replace with arborvitae s and Sophie approves.
Motion: Chris S., Second: Jenny P.
To approve the removal of the trees and replace with Arborvitae.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Certificates of Compliance:
--4 Sunset Lane –  Sophie said there were revisions to the retaining wall and patio but it was less square 
footage of impervious surfaces. She would approve.
Motion: Rich B ., Second: Jenny P.
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 4 Sunset Lane .
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
-- 245 Holman St. Lot 3  –  Sophie s aid  to approve.
Motion: Rich B ., Second: Chris S.
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 2 4 5  Holman St. Lot 3 .
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
-- 25 1  Holman St. Lot 4  –  Sophie said to approve.
Motion: Jenny P ., Second: Mike L .
===PAGE 5===
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 251 Holman St. Lot 4 .
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
-- 5 12  Northfield Rd.  –  Sophie said to approve.
Motion: Rich B ., Second: Chris S.
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 512 Northfield Rd .
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
-- 4 1 Country Rd. –  Sophie said to approve.
Motion: Mike L. , Second: Rich B .
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 4 1 Country Rd .
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
23 Cove R d –  Attorney Jack Mourad  stated that this was part of 50 Sandy Cove Rd , which was split into 
a couple of lots. His client owns 23 Cove Rd  and the OOC goes back to 1995. Rich B. noted that the last 
time he saw it, it had a violation  which Jack said was resolved years ago. The OOC was pulled for  the 
installation of a septic system 29 years ago and the system has passed Title 5 twice. Jack said it appears 
that John Esp osito did not follow through on it. The house is under contract to be sold and this is holding 
up the sale. Jack has been in contact with Sophie but she was unable to correct the mistake. Sophie 
reported that she did a site visit and the septic was installed according to plan. She noted around 2020-21 
there was an area of pea stone  7 ’ from the bank of the stream , around raised beds. Robert Galloni (50 
Sandy Cove Rd.) noted that they resolved an enforcement order in July 2023 regarding a greenhouse in 
the 100 ’ zone, which was removed. He said Anna Petrie (former administrator) did a site visit and the 
issue was closed .
M otion: Rich B ., Second: Mike  L.
To approve the Certificate of Compliance for 23 Cove  Rd .
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
ENFORCEMENT S :
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)
-- 10 Mass Ave- Sophie reported that the Commission had given them 30 days to file but she has not 
received a filing. Mary said to proceed with a violation notice.  Sophie noted that the equipment was 
removed and they had to file before resuming work. Mary asked Sophie to check on the erosion control 
which was failing.
-- 40 Fire Road  12  –  Sophie visited and one party removed the pavement . There is gravel and a large 
stack of wood, tools and debris  there now . The boats and trailers have been removed. The OOC is due to 
expire in July . Mary said they need to meet the OOC and apply for a COC. Sophie will contact  them.
-- 1168 Mass Ave Rear - no update.
-- 205 Sunset (Beers lot)-  Sophie noted t he DEP meeting 7/24 on site. Chris and Jeff will attend also.
NEW BUSINESS :
Topics unknown 48 hours in advance of meeting -
Conservation Commission Meeting Schedule  was sent out by Sophie for feedback.
Beaver Deceiver at Cowdrey  –  no update
Chapter 61B Abatement 20 Kilburn St.  -Mary noted that the Commission voted to not pursue and Bob 
notified the Select Board. Thomas Gibbons stated he was not aware of that. Mary replied that the parcel 
did not meet Open Space conditions, the parcel has received approvals for substantial improvements 
which would  increase the price and it was not practical to complete the purchase in 120 days.
OLD BUSINESS :
Title Searches  –  no update.
===PAGE 6===
E ncroachment I ssue s : no updates
Open Space and Land Use: LCC Sponsored Grant  for 2023 –  Mary noted that the last meeting they 
authorized Bob to contact the Select Board to propose using ARPA funds for covering the matching funds
for this grant. 
LSR Sponsored Grant for 2022- Mary reported all the work has been done and they just need to do the 
final submittal and purchase of equipment requested. 
Hollis Road Residence  Updates  –  Mike reported that the y  approved $1,000 for a new riding mower but 
that did not include a mower deck. He proposes an additional $1,300 from the Hawes Fund to purchase a 
42 ”  Cub Cadet riding mower , for a total of $2,300. Mary asked if the tenant lease would cover the mower 
for loss. Mike replied that they could chain the mower in the shed . The tenant has agreed to mow for 30 
hours per month. Also volunteers will mow at the Pollinator Habitat. He will purchase through Facilities 
Department, which will be tax free. 
M otion: Rich B ., Second: Jenny P .
To purchase a new riding lawn mower , not to exceed $2,300.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Mike also reported that all the painting ha s  been finished.
C ommittee Reports –  no updates.
M otion: Chris S. ., Second: Jenny P .
To adjourn at 9:37 pm.
Roll Call Vote- Mike-aye, Jeff-aye, Rich-aye, Jenny -aye, Chris-aye, and Mary -aye.
Respectfully submitted,
Jane Ranley
Minutes Clerk