===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Mary Wilson
Jennifer Pewtherer
Richard Bursch
Jeffrey Viviano
Michael Larouche
Chris St. Germain
Peter Stella
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Conservation Commission
Chair
CHBURG
Vice Chair
Clerk
Member
Member
Member
Member
INCORPORA
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Sophia Dorow - Conservation. Admin
Maddison Berthet - Admin Assistant
MINUTES
Wednesday, February 19, 2025 - 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote)
1. Call to Order
a. Roll Call:
Present: J. Pewtherer, J. Viviano, M. Larouche, C. St Germain, P. Stella, M. Wilson.
Absent: R. Bursch
Welcomed P. Stella to the Commission.
b. Call to order at 7:00 PM by M. Wilson
2. Announcements:
a. Public Comment: None
b. Minutes of previous meetings: None
c. Appointments/Hearings: None
3. Continuation Requests:
4. APPOINTMENTS: None
5. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS
994 Northfield Road - NOI-25-1
A Notice of Intent by the Lunenburg Conservation Commission for the construction of a parking area to
provide trailhead parking and a proposed gravel driveway which involves the crossing of a bordering
vegetated wetland and the construction of a wetland replication area located on the Table Rock
Conservation land.
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) presented for the Lunenburg Conservation Commission. Grants were obtained
to create parking areas at conservation lands. This is the initial kickoff for Table Rock. He described the
location and the plan, and how it met the Massachusetts storm water management goals. This will go
before the Planning board next week. He explained the logic behind the location of the driveway which
will be a 12-foot-wide gravel surface. The parking area will accommodate 10 vehicles. He then
discussed the proposed replication area.
DEP file number has not been received and he awaited DEP comments.
M. Wilson asked about the flare on the retaining wall - there will be no flare on either end.
J. Viviano wondered if the reclaimed area should be outside of the plowing area. G. Roy agreed to
review but noted that it would require more disturbance to the area.
===PAGE 2===
Public comment by Katlin Wiener 939 Northfield Road: wanted to knwo where the current driveway
was in relation to her driveway. G. Roy agreed to include this on the map. She also wondered what
would happen to the existing 2-car lot. M. Wilson stated it was owned by the Park Commission.
Motion:
M. Wilson, to continue to March 5, expecting the following:
1. DEP file number
2. DEP questions and responses
Review of potentially relocation the replication area
4. Including the driveway of 939 Northfield on the map
5. Planning board review comments
Second
Vote:
none
J. Pewtherer - AYE
P. Stella - AYE
J. Viviano - AYE
M. Wilson - AYE
M. Larouche - AYE
C. St. Germain - AYE
780 Northfield Road - NOI-25-2
A Notice of Intent by James and Allison Lattanzi for the construction of a wetland replication area to
provide mitigation for an existing farm road riverfront crossing and the replacement of an existing
culvert within the farm road.
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicant. Jim Lattanzi was also present. G. Roy reviewed the
history of the project. Project was approved twice by the commissioners, but the DEP came back with
questions. G. Roy then presented the new proposal. M. Wilson confirmed the road was not in the
riverfront area.
Motion:
M. Wilson, to continue to March 5, expecting the following:
1. DEP file number
2. DEP questions and responses
Second
Vote:
none
J. Pewtherer - AYE
P. Stella - AYE
_J. Viviano - AYE
M. Wilson - AYE
M. Larouche - AYE | C. St. Germain - AYE
6. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS
352 Sunset Lane - NOI-24-11
A Notice of Intent by Sally Tonole Luck and Richard Tonole represented by Matthew Marro for the
replacement of one retaining wall, replacement of a section of walkway pavers, and removal of three
trees with replacement vegetation on the shore of Lake Shirley. (DEP # 208-1341). (Continued from
January 22).
Matt Marro represented the applicants. J. Viviano noted that he is an abutter and recused himself. M.
Marro noted that the project was reviewed at the last meeting but could not be approved due to lack
===PAGE 3===
of quorum. Paver will be pulled and replaced by hand. All work is within the flood plain. The only
difference is that the material will be fieldstone instead of railroad ties.
J. Viviano wanted to know if a mini excavator would be used. M. Marro noted it would be hand work
only. M. Wilson noted the work should happen in the draw-down period.
Motion:
J. Pewtherer, to approve with:
3. Standard conditions
4. Work must be conducted during draw down period
Second
C. St. Germain
Vote:
M. Larouche - AYE | J. Pewtherer - AYE | C. St. Germain - AYE | M. Wilson - AYE
Note: J. Viviano had excused himself as an abutter. P. Stella was ineligible because it started before he
was on board.
90 Howard Street -
An Abbreviated Notice of Resource Area Delineation by Kevin O'Brien. (DEP # 208-1304). (Continued
from December 4).
Applicant requested continuance to March 5.
338 Sunset Lane - RDA-24-8
A Request for Determination of Applicability by Jeff Viviano for removal of 10 dead trees and 2 leaning
trees within the resource area and within 30-foot no-disturb zone of Lake Shirley. (Continued from
February 5).
Jeff Viviano represented himself and reviewed the project. M. Wilson confirmed that in addition to the
dead trees only two live trees, 10 dead trees, and five re-plantings are being considered.
Motion:
C. St. Germain, to approve
Second
J. Pewtherer
Vote:
M. Larouche - AYE | C. St. Germain - AYE | J. Pewtherer - AYE | M. Wilson - AYE
Note: J. Viviano was excused as the applicant. P. Stella was ineligible because it started before he was
on board.
7. Filings Previously Continued to a Later Meeting: (for administrative tracking)
213 Electric Avenue - NOI-24-10 (DEP # 208-1339). (Continued from December 4).
67 Island Road (OpenGov.com Record ID# RDA-24-9) - (Continue from January 22)
32 Hemlock Drive - NOI-24-8 (DEP # 208-1337). (Continued February 5th due to incomplete filing -
applicant to notify administrator upon completion for rescheduling).
Administrative Determinations:
===PAGE 4===
Extension Request Permits:
Certificates of Compliance:
Notice of Project Change:
ENFORCEMENT:
Violations, Enforcement Actions, and
Hearings:
10 Mass Ave - Filing schedule
1168 Mass Ave Rear
M. Wilson saved images from a tool (Nearmap) to which we no longer have access.
40 Fire Road 12
950 Chase Road
390 Howard Street
48 Meadow Lane
Jim Levasseur (34 Meadow Lane) represented himself. S. Dorow reviewed the concerns: vegetation
removed within the buffer zone and stockpiling of inorganic material. J. Levasseur stated that all items
of concern are planned to be removed once the snow is gone. He agreed this could happen 30 days
after the snow clears.
67 Island Road
Emergency Certifications:
NEW BUSINESS:
Topics Unknown - 48 Hrs. Advance of Meeting: None
100 Townsend Harbor Chap 61 Removal
M. Wilson noted that the property does not meet any of the six criteria for conservation land.
Wildlands Grants: None
Farmland of Local Importance: Moved to the Agricultural Commission
Conservation Budget report: None
Senior Volunteer Program: None
Tree Policy/tree data sheets:
Agreement that the data sheets are useful and not much extra work for S. Dorow.
OLD BUSINESS:
Update on Title Searches: No update
April Earth Day Events:
M. Wilson is working on this. C. St. Germaine and J. Pewtherer said they would help.
Encroachment Issues: No updates
950 Chase Rd - Shed Removal
315 Lancaster Ave: None
Open Space and Land Use:
Chapter 61 OpenGov Workflow: No update
Grants Update (LCC sponsored, award year 2023)
Grants Update (LSR sponsored, award year 2022): Remove from future agendas
===PAGE 5===
Conservation Land Improvement
Local mountain bikers got permission to groom the snow trails. M. Wilson indicated they are doing a
great job.
Hollis Road Residence:
Lease Agreements & Tenant Responsibilities
Members of the public have volunteered to rewrite the custodian license agreement and plan to come
back on March 5.
Committee Reports - Any Update:
Open Space:
They met last week but we did not attend. C. St. Germain indicated he would be willing to take this on.
Storm Water: No update
Communications/Public Comment:
Adjourn:
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is March 5th, 2025, at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform
Motion: J. Pewtherer, to adjourn at 9:02PM
Second
M. Larouche
Vote:
P. Stella - AYE
J. Pewtherer - AYE
C. St. Germain - AYE
M. Wilson - AYE
M. Larouche - AYE
J. Viviano - AYE
Respectfully submitted,
Michael Gale - Admin Asst.
