===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Mary Wilson
Jennifer Pewtherer
Richard Bursch
Jeffrey Viviano
Michael Larouche
Chris St. Germain
Vacancy
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Conservation Commission
Chair
TEMBURG
Vice Chair
Member
Member
Member
Member
Member
Tel: (978) 582-4146
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Sophia Dorow - Cons. Administrator
Maddison Berthet - Admin Assistant
MINUTES
Wednesday, January 29, 2025 - 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote)
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call :
Present: C. St. Germain, M. Larouche, J. Viviano, M. Wilson. R. Bursch joined at 13:07 into the meeting.
Absent : J. Pewtherer
Call to Order at 7pm by J. Pewtherer
Announcements:
was passed along.
Public: None
Commission: M. Larouche noted that the heating system at Hollis Road was serviced, and the invoice
Public Comment: None
Special Meeting:
• Lake Shirley Annual report / OOC #208-12168
• Joanna Billotta introduced Wendy Gendron (Aquatic Restoration Consulting) and Dominic
Meringolo.
W. Gendron shared the presentation. Noted the target drawdown was not achieved. Reviewed
the Secchi Disk Transparency 5-year values. Reviewed the Temperature & Dissolved Oxygen
profiles, Nutrients, end-season plant survey, herbicide treatment, and the 2024-2025 Plam
• D. Meringolo discussed the fan wart problem and plans.
• M. Wilson asked about the plans for hand removal. D. Meringolo suggested hand pulling is only
efficient in small areas with trace amount of fan wart.
M. Wilson asked about the strength of the herbicide and was told there is no concern for
aquatic lite.
• J. Billotta noted that Shirley approved the plan last night.
• John Fortune, 50 Hemlock Drive, wondered if algae problems the next year the result of
eliminating phosphorous plants in the cleanup. D. Meringolo suggested the dying-off of plants is
slow but does change the dynamics of the lake but should be short-lived.
===PAGE 2===
M. Larouche wondered if we have ever attempted to introduce new native plants. It was tried
and the plan lasted for a year but needs to last several years to really take hold.
Motion:
Second
Vote:
C. St. Germain, to approve the treatment plan as proposed and all testing results are
sent to the office prior to application.
J. Viviano
R. Bursch - AYE
J. Viviano - AYE
M. Larouche - AYE
C. St. Germain - AYE
M. Wilson - AYE
• Hickory Hills Annual Report 2024 SOlitude + ARC (Aquatic Restoration Consulting LLC)
• John Fortune (50 Hemlock Drive) presented the report for Hickory Hills Landowners, Inc.
• OOC, DEP 208-1266 issues July 25,2022 as a five-year plan. M. Wilson will check to see if it has
been extended.
• Lake monitoring is by surface (snorkel, kayak, boats) and 10 certified divers.
Fanwort has been their biggest problem since 2011.
Plants pulled has increased from 3,821 in 2021 to 68,103 in 2024.
• 10 areas of small treatments across 16 acres to slow the growth
• Reviewed the water quality testing chart, total surface phosphorus, phytoplankton samples
• Additional data was included in the ARC report
• Conducted 205 overall aquatic plan summaries.
Reviewed chemical treatments in both lakes.
• Reviewed the annual drawdown notes.
Reviewed erosion control.
• Goose addling has increased in the last three years.
Reviewed fishing data from seven resident fishing tournaments.
Reviewed staffing and resident communication.
• Reviewed the plans for 2025.
• R. Bursch asked how often you can repeat with Clipper. D. Meringolo states every 4 years.
Noted that they will come back in May with an implementation plan for approval.
ADJOURNMENT
Motion: M. Larouche, to adjourn at 8:34PM.
Second
Vote:
R. Bursch
M. Larouche - AYE
M. Wilson - AYE
C. St. Germain - AYE
J. Viviano - AYE
Link to video recording
Respectfully submitted,
Michael Gale - Admin Asst.
R. Bursch - AYE
