===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Teddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Vacant 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
Tel: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jamie – Conservation Agent 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, 1 July 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call:  
Present: J. Pewtherer, A. Burnap, M. Larouche, M. Wilson and T. Doucette. 
Absent: R. Bursch 
Call to Order at 7:02 pm by J. Pewtherer 
2. APPOINTMENTS: None 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment: None 
b. Pollinator Habitat Update 
J. Pewtherer uploaded and shared pictures.  The Pollinator Habitat received an official Citation from 
Massachusetts which stated that Pollinator Habitat received the 2026 Greening Award at the Botanical Garden in 
W. Boylston.   M. Larouche was one of 6 present for the award.   
 
Minutes of Previous Meetings:  
06/03/2026  
 
Motion: T. Doucette, for approval 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
06/17/2026 
 
Motion: M. Larouche, for approval 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
 
4. Chair J. Pewtherer commented that Admin Assistant Michael Gale’s last day with the commission is approaching.  H. 
Jamie stated that Michael’s last day was June 18th  due to planned vacation and she hopes that he can continue in 
some capacity with the town because he is a true asset.  He will be very missed. 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
5. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws: 
a. 101 Horizon Island Road: NOI-26-20 
Notice of Intent by Robert Wright for the construction of a new addition to an existing dwelling. 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicant.  The project is an addition to an existing dwelling and R. 
Proctor explained the proposed project. Portions of the decking will be removed that is in the buffer to allow for 
the addition.  Should access toward the water be something the homeowner wanted it would be best to discuss it 
now or only a limited area outside the buffer is viable. 
Motion: T Doucette, for a negative determination. 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
b. 701 Reservoir Road: NOI26-21 
Notice of Intent by the Reservoir Recreational Trust for the construction of a new concrete boat ram on Lake 
Shirley at Shady Point 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicant.  Owner Chris ______ was also present.  The project is a 
proposed concrete boat ramp to replace, stabilize and improve the current boat ramp at Shady Point on Lake 
Shirley.  Carl Luck, Sunset Lane was present who raised questions about drainage and component (concrete) of 
the boat ramp. Request by Commission for more information possible different compositions for the ramp. 
Motion: M. Larouche, continued to 7/15 for DEP Number 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
c. 10 Parmenter Road – Lot 18 – 91 Round Road NOI-26-22 
Notice of Intent by Benjamin Builders minor site work for driveway entrance and Rain Garden 
Ryan Proctor (Dill & Roy) represented the owner.  This is Lot 18 now known as 91 Round Road and is a single 
family house.  Super elevated driveway to address runoff.  The stormwater plan/permit has been uploaded that 
includes this lot for review. 
Motion: M. Larouche, continued to 7/15 for DEP Number 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
d. 10 Parmenter Road – 115 Round Road RDA-26-6 
Notice of Intent by Benjamin Builders for the construction of a common driveway entrance with site grading 
Ryan Proctor (Dill & Roy) represented the owner.  Storm Water plan was upload for review.  R. Proctor 
discussed and presented the project.  H. Jamie’s notes were read. 
Motion: M. Larouche, for a negative determination 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
e. 100 Laurel Lane:  RDA-26-7Request for Determination of Applicability by Brian Pollard for the 
decommissioning of a septic system and installation of a grinder pump 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
Motion: M. Wilson, continued to 7/15 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
 
6. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
a. 1625 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-10 (Continued to 7/15/26) 
b. 860 New West Townsend Road NOI-26-1 
Notice of Intend by Daniel & Rachel Brackett for a common driveway to provide access to four residential lots 
Ryan Proctor present for the owner who stated that the Planning Board Process has not been completed as the 
Commission asked to see.  Hearing on 7/13 
Motion: M Larouche, continued to 7/15  
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
c. 934 Massachusetts Avenue NOI-26-17 
Notice of Intend by Unitil for the construction of a new substation and replacement of utility poles.    
Motion: M Larouche, continued to 7/15  
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Docette - AYE    
 
 
d. 507 West Townsend Road: NOI-26-19 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Jahnke Construction LLC for the construction of a single-family home with a wetland 
crossing 
Zack Man of New England Environmental Design was present for the applicant. Z Man gave a quick overview of 
the project.  The Well has been moved out of the buffer zone, the house has been moved as far as possible from 
the buffer zone but there is a wetland crossing at the front of the property effecting the driveway.  DEP number 
and comments received from DEP regarding adhering to Stream Crossing Standards and a 1 to 1 replication. 
Motion: M. Larouche, to continue to July 15 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
7. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS:  
a. Conservation Administrator’s Determinations 
i.  56 Laurel Lane CAD-25-7 
H. Jamie’s report was reviewed.  Removal of a tree leaving the stump.  Tree is outside the 30 foot buffer. 
Motion: M. Wilson, to ratify Agent’s determination  
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
ii.  82 Peninsula Drive CAD-26-8 
H. Jamie’s report was reviewed.  Removal of a tree close to the house with an in kind 2:1 replication. 
Motion: M. Larouche, to ratify Agent’s determination  
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE    
 
 
b. Amended Order of Conditions: None 
c. Extension Request Permits: 
757 Chase Road 208-1217 CEXT-26-1   
J. Almonte of Land Design Collabrative representing Empire Management.  J. Almonte gave an overview of the 
proposed project and a request for an extension of the existing Order of Conditions.  The project was approved in 
2001, all permits (Planning, Zoning, etc. ) have all expired.  Nothing has changed and all permitting requirements 
have been resubmitted. 
H. Jamie stated that although her comments are not a part of this discussion, H. Jamie was at the site for a site 
inspection and to the right side of the current structure there is an additional building where she observed vehicles 
being washed on the property.  The wash water appeared to flow toward the adjacent wetland resource area.  
While H Jamie was there she met with chair M. Proctor from the Board of Health, who had presented on site with 
the same concern.  Staff indicated that this had been their practice for many years, even though there was a 
violation issued last year and a cease and desist was issued, which was completely disregarded.  There were 
soaps, detergents, grease, oils and other pollutants that have the potential to impact adjacent resource areas. Also I 
want to preface this when considering an extension of an existing Order of Condition, if the property owner 
cannot abide by current standards of the Wetlands Protection Act, it leads me to believe that they lose their right to 
receive their extension until they  remediated these ongoing issues.   I recommend that the Commission direct the 
property owner to immediately discontinue this activity.  If the practice continues after notification, I recommend 
that the Commission authorize the issuance of a formal Notice of Violation and pursue appropriate enforcement 
action.  J. Almonte assured the Commission that all car washing activities on the property have ceased.  A letter 
will be sent of a pre-warning of enforcement if activities continue. 
Brian Lafferty of Empire Management, owner of the property, was present.  The dealerships rent the property.  A 
statement that this will not happen again, there will be no more car washing at the facility.  H. Jamie stated that 
she was at the property and she witnessed the washing of cars.  Topography is such that the highest point washes 
to the lowest point.  Car washing was at the highest point washing into the lowest point, which is a wetland.  H. 
Jamie respectfully stated that she witnessed the car washing and spoke directly to the entity washing the cars.  
Violations are sent to the name and address listed in the public records of the Town of Lunenburg. 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the extension to Order of Conditions for 3 years  
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - AYE     
  
d. Certificates of Compliance: None 
e. Notice of Project Change:  None 
8. ENFORCEMENT 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings: 
i. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
H. Jaime notice from DEP.  They advised the Commission should move forward with an Enforcement Order to 
best address the situation.  They are requesting that the Enforcement Order require the following:  An 
evaluation of the property for all the wetland resource areas and reviews that quantify all the altered wetland 
resource areas, the evaluation to be conducted by a qualified wetland professional and the evaluation should 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
include subservice soil analysis of sufficient depth throughout the site, including areas along the stream and 
areas that confirm through the ORAD.  DEP recommends that this deliverable is due no later than 30 days of 
the issuance of the Enforcement Order.  They are also asking for the submission of a restoration plan, which 
includes surveyed topo plans and a description of the unpermitted work and the areas to be restored.  They want 
written confirmation of the intent to comply with the Order within 5 business days of the date the Enforcement 
Order is issued.  They recommend that the Commission review the bvw delineations associated with the ORAD 
so we can confirm the bank resource area associated with the intermittent streams and that it is still present on 
the property and should be included in the evaluation.  The 2 year time frame to inforce violations is nearing the 
end.  We have reached out to the property owner numerous times, it took a long time to get DEP out there and 
made numerous attempts in various ways to contact the property owner without a response.  They seem to 
wants to work on this but are not being pushed enough so that they are present something to resolve the issues.  
DEP wants an Enforcement Order issued and H. Jamie is in favor of doing same. 
 
Motion: M. Larouche, to Issue Enforcement Order with DEP Recommendations 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – Recuse M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
  
b. Emergency Certifications: None 
c.  
9. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Updates: None 
Commission Open Discussion 
M. Wilson – Mass Recreational Trails Grant Program  is a good source of funding for the Commission to do 
conservation land improvements. This year we applied for two separate grants.  One for the Table Rock parking 
area and the permitting work that had been done by Mass Recreational Trails and one for installation of the Rayno 
property parking area with engineering and permitting done by Recreational Trails.  Unfortunately we were not 
awarded grant money.  It appears grants funding is down this year.  They had 121 applications and funded 50.  A 
lot of the ones funded were funding for rail trails and bigger ticket projects.  Federal Funding has gone away.  We 
can apply again next year.  Rayno property might be a property for state funding grants.  T. Doucette stated he 
appreciates the work done although grant funding was not approved.  Mention was made that M. Wilson did most 
of the work on grants. 
b. By-Law Discussion 
H. Jaime continued to a later meeting. 
10. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget:  
i. Massey Tract 
H. Jamie stated that this property is a part of the Forest Legacy Program and that North County Land Trust is 
helping the property owner.  The Director of North County Land Trust and Town Counsel talked regarding what 
is required by the Town.  Town Counsel advised that they had a conversation with and our Town Manager J. 
Warren who is differing to the Commission with regard to a question regarding the deed.  North County Land 
trust is requesting a commitment of 25% of the cost of a Title Search and Title Insurance, of which 75% will be 
reimbursed by the Federal Government.  According to Town Counsel, the total cost of Title Insurance and Title 
Search is below $5,000 of which the Commission would be responsible for 25%. M. Wilson suggested that 
these funds come from the Timber Rights Account.   
 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve 25% of the funds necessary for title search and title insurance for 
Massey property as a part of Forest Legacy Program (through North County Land Trust) 
Second M. Larouche 
===PAGE 6===
   
 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
  
 
b. Encroachment Issues: None to discuss. 
c. Hollis Rd Residence: 
Cleaned on July 6th and 7th 
Woodstove on Facebook – M. Wilson has a Facebook account for posting 
Personal Property Left in the Residence 
Deed to Hollis Road Property stipulations and restrictions – to be circulated by H. Jamie 
Building tour with Plumber – corrosion on boiler, installed in 2005, no leaks 
 p-traps missing although they are present in the basement and to code 
 kitchen faucet – only screen needs cleaning 
 shower values – no leaking and working 
 building needs upgraded from 100 amp service – not needed at this time 
Updated List from Chris Ruth – had been circulated to Commission 
New roof on shed 
Appliances supplied by custodian not the Commission 
d. Committee Reports – No Update 
i. Master Plan Steering Committee: No update 
ii. Open Space: No update 
iii. Storm Water: Meeting on the 24th went through commercial properties and made sense to what is in town 
11. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT 
12. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. Wednesday 07/15 at 7:00PM by Zoom 
13. ADJOURN 
Motion: M. Wilson, to adjourn at 9:43PM  
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Andrea Schnepf – Admin Asst. 