===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Teddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Vacant 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
Tel: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jamie – Conservation Agent 
Michael Gale – Admin Assistant 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, 3 June 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call: J. Pewtherer, R. Bursch, M. Larouche, T. Doucette 
Absent: M. Wilson, A. Burnap (joined at 29:17 minutes into the meeting) 
Call to Order at 7pm by J. Pewtherer 
2. APPOINTMENTS: None 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment. (No comments from members of the public.) 
i. Pollinator Habitat Update 
M. Larouche reviewed the May 17 event, sharing photos of plants and butterflies. It was basically an 
opportunity to organize for the upcoming season. J. Pewtherer noted the Habitat is located at 123 Hollis Road, 
is open to the public during daylight hours, and provides free parking 
ii. Drought Declaration: DEP May 22 
DEP raised the drought level to level 2 (significant drought) for the Connecticut River Valley, Central and 
Nantucket Counties. We are part of Central County. They want all regions within that scope to minimize overall 
use of water, follow local water restrictions, fix indoor leaks such as toilets, faucets, showers, and that larger 
buildings and businesses should conduct audits to identify any areas of leakage. DEP wants people to limit 
washing hard surfaces like sidewalks, patios, driveways, and sidings. 
b. Minutes of Previous Meetings:  
05/20/2026 
Motion: T. Doucette, to approve the minutes of the 5/20 meeting. 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 
4. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws: 
a. 146 Youngs Road: NOI-26-18 
Notice of Intent by Nichols Excavating, LLC for the replacement of a failed septic system 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicant. The existing sewer line comes out of the existing house. 
The new system will go in the same general location. The driveway will be relocated outside the 50-foot zone. 
Due to grading, the new septic will need a pump chamber. Breakout grading will require a retaining wall. Erosion 
controls will be used. Board of Health approval is still needed as they are within 100 feet of a well. Still waiting 
for the DEP number. 
Motion: R. Bursch, to continue to the June 17 meeting. 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE      
 
b. 507 West Townsend Road: NOI-26-19 
Notice of Intent by Jahnke Construction LLC for the construction of a single-family home with a wetland 
crossing   
Zach Mann (New England Environmental Design) represented the applicant. New construction on a large 
property. The area was previously disturbed about 8-10 years ago. A long driveway is needed but will have to 
enter over an existing stream. The DEP number has not been received. Minor grading in the 50-foot buffer, and 
the house is in the 100-foot zone. T. Doucette wanted the reason a common driveway was not possible.  Z. Mann 
said the neighbor did not want a common driveway. A parallel driveway was not considered due to the existing 
pipe. R. Bursch wanted a planting schematic, construction detail for the temporary disturbance, and a planting 
demarcation to protect the 30-foot zone. He also wondered why the house cannot be outside a buffer zone when 
there is over 28 acres. Z. Mann said it was simply a client preference. H. Jaime suggested this could also improve 
the large driveway requirement.  
Motion: M. Larouche, continue to the June 17 meeting, addressing the following: 
1. Replication detail on the disturbed area 
2. 30-foot buffer planting demarcation native plants 
3. Move the structure outside the buffer zone 
4. Locate the staging area on the map 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE      
 
5. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
a. 1625 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-10 (Continued from 05/06/26) 
Notice of Intent by the Town of Lunenburg Conservation Commission for the construction of an ADA parking and 
re-construction of an existing hiking trail at Cowdery Nature Center. Continued to 06/17 
b. 860 New West Townsend Road: NOI-26-1 (Continued from 05/20/26) 
Notice of Intent by Daniel & Rachel Brackett for a common driveway to provide access to four residential lots 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicants, who were also present. Covers 3 properties. Will involve 
4 townhomes each with 5 units using a common driveway. Applications are still before the Planning Board. 
Comments from the peer review and DEP have been submitted. Many peer review questions were stormwater 
related. Property had a forest cutting plan 10 years ago, and the owners now want to develop the property. No 
more cutting will take place. H. Jaime noted that we may want to wait until DEP has received the responses. R. 
Bursch suggested waiting until all Planning Board approvals are received.  
Motion: R. Bursch, to continue to the June 17 meeting, addressing the following: 
1. Wait for DEP to review responses 
2. Wait for all Planning Board approvals to be complete 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 T. Doucette - Abstain      
 
 
c. 56 Ruth Street: NOI-26-16 (Continued from 05/20/26) 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
Notice of Intent by Benjamin Builders for the construction of common driveway entrance with related drainage 
basin and site grading 
The applicant requested a continuance. 
Motion: M. Larouche, continue to the June 17 meeting at applicant’s request. 
Second R. Bursch 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE      
d. 934 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-17 (Continued from 05/20/26) 
Notice of Intent by Unitil for the construction of a new substation and replacement of utility poles 
The applicant requested a continuance. 
Motion: R. Bursch, continue to the June 17 meeting at applicant’s request. 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE      
 
6. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS: None 
a. Amended Order of Conditions: 
b. Extension Request Permits: 
c. Certificates of Compliance: 
d. Notice of Project Change: 
7. ENFORCEMENT 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings: 
i. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
Brian Marchetti represented the violator who explained the process started about a year ago when they started 
working with USDA regarding the farm plan, waiting for the USDA response. DEP conducted a site walk but 
has not sent the report.  
ii. 314 Highland St 
H. Jaime is in touch with the owner. 
b. Emergency Certifications: 
8. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Updates: 
i. Hickory Hills Lake: 2026 Treatment Plan 
Dominic Meringolo (SOLitude) presented the treatment plan. 5 areas of the lake (25 acres) identified for 
treatment. Treatment to begin June10. 
Motion: T. Doucette, to approve the treatment plan as presented. 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE      
ii. CMMCP- 1147 Mass Ave 
The Central Mass Mosquito Control Plan will be digging a ditch as maintenance and provided this notice as a 
courtesy. This is free to the property owner. 
b. Topics Unknown – 48 Hrs. Advance of Meeting 
H, Jaime received notice that several large trees were planted at 715 Reservoir Rd inside the 30-foot buffer. She 
conducted a site visit. A six-month inspection would be in December, so she suggested a spring checkup. The 
Commission agreed.  
c. By-Law Discussion: None 
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget:  
===PAGE 4===
   
 
Final and proposed budgets will be ready for the June 17 meeting. She reviewed the work required to get to this 
state.  
b. Encroachment Issues: None, but Bob Pease has an old list that he will review with H. Jaime. 
c. Hollis Rd Residence: 
Both cars are now gone. The trampoline has been dismantled and placed on the side of the road. Sumac and 
bittersweet plants have been removed. M. Larouche had circulated a proposal to everyone. A cleaning company 
was identified and researched. Power and water will need to be restored. There is still a lot of junk to be cleaned 
up. Bill Bernard from DPW will drop off a dumpster. 
Cleaning quote includes carpet cleaning ($216), touchable services ($1,872), vapor order counteractant ($122), 
supplies ($100), heavy pet spot removal ($95) for a subtotal of $2,405. This would come from the “Haws” fund. 
Motion: M. Larouche, to approve $2,411.25 from the “Haws” fund to hire a cleaning company 
for the 123 Hollis Road property. 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – Abstain T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE      
 
d. Committee Reports – Any Update 
i. Master Plan Steering Committee: No update. T. Doucette will reach out to Kim Duffy for status. 
ii. Open Space: Meeting next week 
iii. Storm Water: Figuring out how to approach commercial properties. 
10. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT 
1. J. Pewtherer noted that Brad Coons attended the entire meeting. He was impressed by how prepared the 
applicants were and the level of detail discussed. He is more interested in doing trail stewardship or an associate 
position (non-voting positions). 
2. T. Doucette attended a trail walk of Lane property regarding invasive management. Seed collection was 
discussed (an individual for personal business or open collection for anyone). The library has seed packets that 
can be picked up. 
11. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. Wednesday 06/17 at 7:00PM by Zoom 
12. ADJOURN 
Motion: T. Doucette, to adjourn at 8:50PM 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE R. Bursch – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE      
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Michael Gale - Admin Asst. 