===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission  
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Chris St Germain 
T eddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
T el: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jamie – Interim Consv. Admin 
Michael Gale – Admin Assistant 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, 7 January 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call: T. Doucette, A. Burnap, M. Wilson, M. Larouche, J. Pewtherer. 
Absent: C. St. Germain, R, Bursch 
Call to Order at 7pm by J. Pewtherer 
2. APPOINTMENTS 
a. 7:10 PM 49 Cliffview T errace CAD-25-25  <Video link> 
A Public Hearing on a Conservation Administrator’s Determination regarding removal of 11 dead hemlock trees. They were 
probably killed by HWA over the last decade. These trees are a safety hazard to persons and property. The trees will be 
selectively remov ed without disturbing the surrounding trees and vegetation.  
 
Dick Fisher presented th e project.  Herlin's comments were read into the record  as follows: 
(11) hemlock trees were observed to be dead, exhibiting  extensive branch dieback, lack of live foliage, and overall 
structural decline. The condition of these trees is consistent with long -term impacts from Hemlock Woolly Adelgid 
(HW Eleven A) infestation, which has affected hemlock populations throughout the region over the past decade. The 
dead hemlocks were identified throughout the wooded slope and along the shoreline edge. Due to their height, 
location, and deteriorated condition, these trees pose a safety hazard to persons and property, particularly durin g 
wind, snow, or ice events.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve as presented with the following stipulations:  
1. Tree removal shall be limited to the eleven (11) dead hemlock trees identified during the site visit.  
2. Trees shall be selectively removed to minimize disturbance to surrounding trees, understory 
vegetation, and soils.   
3. Stumps and root systems shall remain in place unless otherwise authorized.  
4. No equipment staging, stockpiling, or debris disposal shall occur within resource areas.  
5. Any additional tree removal or disturbance beyond what is authorized will require further review by 
the Conservation Agent or Conservation Commission  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
b. 7:15 PM T om Anelons to discuss trail grooming on conservation area trails   <Video link> 
Tom Anelons provided a map that includes new trails in the Lan e property is a n NHSP site, so all trails much be approved by 
NHSP first.  JH. Pewtherer shard the sanctions trails map.  M. Wilson noted that  the brown trails are on private land and are 
designated  non-motorized. T. Anelons indicated he stays within the yellow trails. Only these sanctioned trails may be 
groomed. 
Bob Pease supported the request to groom the trails as a big plus to all users.  He noted that a blue trail near Gilchrest does not 
show on the map , is heavily used and should also be groomed . M. LaRouche  wondered how we reconcile trails that do not 
officially appear on the map.  M. Wilson noted Montachusett Regional Planning creates the map.  She also noted surprise in 
the number of trails that exist that are not on the map.  
 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve snow dog grooming on the Lan e and Large Town Conservation 
land with the following stipulations : 
1. Permission is for 12 months only  
2. Only allowed for red, blue, green, yellow, and orange trails as indicated on the current trial map  
Second  M. Larouche 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
J. Pewtherer presented the Table Rock map.  Some of the trails are too rocky to groom. T. Anelons asked if he needed 
permission to clear downed trees  (allowed if hand tools only are used; powered tools need permission) . B. Pease noted that  
several approved trails do not appear on the map, and he was not expecting to update the map until all the work was 
complete.  
Motion: M. Larouche, to approve the updated map for Table Rock and approve grooming any 
trail deemed ‘groom-able’ with the following stipulations:  
1. Gray trails are on private land and may not be included in the grooming effort  
2. Only allowed for yellow, orange, red, blue , brown, and green  trails 
Second  M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE T. Doucette - AYE A. Burnap – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment.  None 
b. Minutes of Previous Meetings:   
12/17  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the minutes of the 12/17 meeting  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
4. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws: 
a. 33 Gibson St: NOI-25-26 <Video link> 
A public hearing on a Notice of Intent by James Liljegren for a project that involves the upgrade of a failing sewage disposa l 
system. 
Dan Wolfe (David Ross Associates) represented Jim Liljegren.  The wetlands and an existing well and a riverfront resulted in 
a small available area and special design. It is not a mounded system. No DEP comments. 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the plan as proposed.  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE M. Wilson – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
b. 58 Spring St EXT : NOI-25-27 <Video link> 
A public hearing on a Notice of Intent by DDuby Construction LLC - Daniel Duby for a project that involves the demolition 
of a patio to pour a concrete foundation, construct a screen porch and the extension of a deck.  
===PAGE 3===
   
 
The applicant requested a continuance.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to continue to 21 January 2026 . 
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
5. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS  
a. 480 Mulpus Rd: RDA-25-15 (Continued since October 1)  <Video link> 
A public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Kenneth McNamara for a project that involves 
construction of a shed (16’ -0” x 14’-0”) approximately 75 to 100 feet from the edge of the stream. The shed will be set on 
concrete blocks that  are 8 x 8 x 4. 
The applicant provided a new plan which J. Pewtherer shared. Distance now shows 112 feet from the edge of the stream. 
Notes from Herlin’s site visit were read.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the plans as presented  with the following stipulations:  
1. Shed will be in the newly agreed location as shown on the map.  
2. No stockpiling of materials within 50 ft of the intermittent stream  
3. Any excavated soil shall be removed from the buffer zone the same day  
4. All disturbed  areas shall be stabilized immediately following construction  
5. The shed shall remain  an unheated accessory structure with no plumbing or 
utilities without further review.  
6. No vegetation clearing . 
7. Pre-construction erosion control inspection is required.  
Second  M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE M. Wilson – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
b. 30 Summer St: NOI-25-22 (Continued from November 19)  <Video link> 
A public hearing on a Notice of Intent by SafStor Real Estate Co.,LLC for a project that involves floodplain fill and 
associated compensatory floodplain compensation.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to continue to 21 January 2026.  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
c. 763 Northfield Rd: NOI-25-19 (Continued from October 15 and November 5)  <Video link> 
A public hearing on a Notice of Intent by the Town of Lunenburg -DPW for the replacement of  the deteriorated culvert at the 
Northfield Road crossing over Mulpus Brook in order to mitigate further deterioration, prevent potential flooding caused by 
the existing undersized culvert, and meet the Massachusetts River and Stream Crossing Standards to t he maximum extent 
practicable. The proposed culvert replacement is a 38 -foot, 4 -foot diameter precast reinforced concrete piped culvert with 
precast headwalls at both pipe ends. The proposed culvert will match the existing culvert’s alignment. (asked to co ntinue to 
12/17/2025)  
Matt Lunstead presented for the Department of Public Works  and shared revised plans showing corrected buffer zones  and 
addressed DEP concerns.  M. Lunstead shared the details of the replication area.  Permission from landowner  has yet to be 
obtained.  
===PAGE 4===
   
 
Motion: M. Wilson, to continue to 21 January 2026  pending landowner permission 
Second  M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE M. Wilson – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
d. 27 Fire Road 15A:  NOI-25-25 (Continued from December 17)  <Video link> 
A public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Steve Bean for a project that involves the demolition of an existing cottage and 
construction of a replacement house and deck on the property.  
The applicant requested continuance to 21 January.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to continue to 21 January 2026 pending landowner permission  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
6. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS 
a. 833 Flat Hill Rd - CAD-25-21 Applicant was not present.  
b. 8 Iris Court:  CAD-25-22 
Ed Wexner and Diane Wexner (8 Iris Court) were present. Herlin ’s notes were read. Both trees were deem ed a concern.  
Applicant wants to add additional trees to what Herlin noted.  M. Wilson noted the provide map needs clarity regarding what 
is being proposed to be removed.   While the diagram is good, the proposed tree work is unclear.  Red usually means a 
removal, but some items in green are being requested to be removed.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve removal of White Pine 6 -in DBH13, White Pine NT 2.6 ft DBH, 
two trunks from multi -stem maples with the following stipulation s: 
1. Update color-coded plan provided to Administrator prior to beginning work  
2. No replication or replacement  planting needed  
3. All work must occur with equipment operating from upland avoiding disturbance 
to the 30- and 50-foot buffer zones to the maximum extent feasible  
4. Stumps to remain in place to maintain  soil integrity unless grinding is necessary  
5. Applicant must notify conservation office 48 hours prior to removal  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Larouche – AYE M. Wilson – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
 
c. 41 Hilltop Ln: CAD-25-23  
Applicant not presen t.  Herlin’s note read:  
Four trees were observed to be dead, exhibiting extensive branch dieback and lack of live foliage. The trees appear 
structurally compromised and no longer viable. Due to their location and condition, these trees pose a potential risk of 
failure, with the likelihood of falling toward nearby st ructures and causing property damage.  
Tree removal shall be limited to the four dead trees identified  during the site visit. Stumps shall remain in place and shall not 
be ground or excavated. All work shall be conducted using best management practices to minimize disturbance to 
surrounding soils and vegetation. No equipment staging, stockpiling, or debris  disposal shall occur within resource areas. 
Any additional tree removal beyond what is authorized will require further review by the Conservation Agent or Conservation 
Commission. 
 
M. Wilson noted the provided pictures  and the narrative do not fully synch.  A detailed diagram and listing of damaged  trees 
would be helpful.  
===PAGE 5===
   
 
Motion: M. Wilson, to continue to 21 January 2026 pending a more detailed graphic and listing 
of damaged trees. 
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
d. Extension Request Permits:  None 
e. Certificates of Compliance:  
i. 143 Island Rd: COC-25-20 
Michelle Salas (143 Island Road) .  The COC is from 1985;  their attorney wants the COC cl osed out before purchasing . 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve issuance of COC based on Administrator's findings.  
Second  M. Larouche 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
f. Notice of Project Change:  
7. ENFORCEMENT None 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings:  
i. 10 Mass Ave 
ii. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
iii. 48 Meadow Ln  
iv. 1147 Mass Ave 
v. 314 Highland St  
vi. 715 Reservoir Rd  
b. Emergency Certifications:  
i. 98 Horizon Island Rd: CAD-25-26 
Herlin’s note s:   
Tree with the split trunk is deemed  a hazard tree and presents an imminent risk to public safety and property. Removal of 
this tree is warranted to prevent potential injury or damage.  
In addition to the primary hazard tree, several nearby mature trees were observed to contain dead, rotted, and/or 
compromised branches. These branches appear structurally unsound and pose an ongoing safety concern, particularly 
during wind or snow events.  
Additionally, while the tree crew is mobilized on site, the removal of dead, rotted, or hazardous branches from adjacent tree s 
is considered reasonable and appropriate as a preventative safety measure, provided that such work is limited to pruning and 
does not result in additional ground disturbance or expanded tree removal beyond what is necessary to address safety 
concerns.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve removal of tree removal and damaged branches as proposed 
with the following stipulations:  
1. Tree removal and pruning shall be conducted using best management practices 
to minimize disturbance to surrounding soils and resource areas.  
2. No staging, equipment storage, or debris stockpiling shall occur within resource 
areas. 
3. All work shall be limited to the removal of the identified hazard tree and 
selective pruning of visibly dead or rotted branches on nearby trees.  
4. No additional tree removal is authorized without further review by the 
Conservation Agent or Conservation Commission  
Second  M. Larouche 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
===PAGE 6===
   
 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
 
8. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Topics Unknown – 48 Hrs. Advance of Meeting : None 
b. By-Law Discussion : None 
c. MACC Training Takeaways : None 
d. Notification of Well Abandonment - 451 Mass Ave 
Next to the 2A/13 Subaru dealership. Pipes will be pulled and filled in.  This is a notification only.  
e. Lunenburg April Earth Days  
M. Wilson noted she cannot tak e the leadership role this year but is willing to assist . Herlin noted she would also be 
willing  to assist. Usually April 22 nd. Typically, these are times  of many conflicts.  
M. Wilson reviewed a mailing we would like to include  in a future Town Mailing.  Need to budget for this activity  and 
cost. 
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget:  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve a Purchase Order not to exceed $500 to cover the cost of 
electricity for 123 Hollis Road.  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
b. Encroachment Issues:  
c. Hollis Rd Residence: 
Cam’s heating will service the heating system at the end of January.   They do not need to enter the property.  
d. Committee Reports – Any Update: 
i. Master Plan Steering Committee : 170 -page draft has been downloaded.  
ii. Open Space: None 
iii. Storm Water: None 
10. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT  
11. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. January 21 at 7:00PM by Zoom  
12. ADJOURN 
Motion: M. Wilson, to adjourn at 9:52PM  
Second  T. Doucette 
Vote: A. Burnap – AYE M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer – AYE     
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Michael Gale  - Admin Asst. 