===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Teddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Vacant 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
Tel: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jaime – Conservation Agent 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, 5 August 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call:  
Present: M. Wilson, R. Bursch, A. Burnap, M. Larouche, and T. Doucette. 
Absent: J. Pewtherer, 
Call to Order at 7:04 pm by M. Wilson 
2. APPOINTMENTS: None 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment:  
None 
b. Pollinator Habitat Update 
There were no pictures to upload this meeting.  M. Larouche stated that he was out looking at the roof on the shed 
and feels that the Pollinator Habitat is a very magical place with all the flowers, pollinators going to the flowers as 
well as the wildlife.   
 
Minutes of:  
7/15/26 
Motion By:  A. Burnap 
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
M. Wilson - AYE 
 
4. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws: 
a.  108 Sunny Hill Road:  NOI-26-24 
Notice of Intent by Jacqueline Rager for a driveway crossing of isolated wetland area (BYLAW ONLY) 
Chris MacKenzie (Dillis & Roy) was present for the applicant.  An additional duplex unit is being proposed for 
this property at the back with an existing residential structure in the front.  The proposed duplex will have its own 
septic system, which it Title 5 compliant for new construction.  The proposed septic system is a Presby System 
which allows for a smaller leach field footprint.  In order for a Presby System to be utilized, they would also have 
to show that a standard system could also be used.  M. Wilson stated that she feels the board would also like to 
see the plan of that system, which was unavailable.  In order for the development of this duplex to take place, a 
wetland crossing of approximately 692 square feet is required.  The proposal would be to replicate 692 square 
foot to account for the wetland crossing at a 1:1 ratio.  This property is mostly wooded and trees would have to 
be removed to construct the driveway, proposed duplex and septic system.  A rain garden is being proposed 
together with the appropriate erosion controls to mitigate the wetland crossing.  Discussion about poor drainage 
already on this roadway was discussed.  It was suggested that C. MacKenzie contact DPW to see if they have any 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
questions about the placement of the driveway and concerned residents should participate in that discussion.  
There were questions about the topography of the proposed septic system and possible run off from that.  M. 
Wilson stated that she would like to see additional mitigation in the form or a retention pond and/or a water 
garden higher up on the driveway to capture runoff from the driveway.  T. Ducette and R. Burch were in 
agreement M. Burch does not want to see, over time, open ground running and erosion into the isolated wetlands.  
The Commission is requiring a construction schedule with the stabilization and replication done during the 
construction phase with the driveway constructed at the same time as the rain garden and prior to the construction 
of the building.  The replication area must be monitored over 2 growing seasons by a certified wetland replication 
scientist.  M. Wilson stated that there are a number of abutters that are concerned about how much, if permitted, 
would this project contribute to the current flooding problem. 
Colleen Kostich of 119 Sunny Hill Road stated that the proposed driveway is right across from her house and her 
concern is flooding and there are huge flooding problems in this area.  C. Kostich stated that she does not have a 
problem with the project but does not want this development to negatively impact the huge flooding problems 
that already exists.  Pictures were shared of the flooding on the roadway and properties from the storm this past 
Monday.  There was discussion about a possible catch basin at the base of the driveway but it was determined 
that without further information, that could not be required.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
H. Jaime stated that the Commission touched on many of concerns but based on where the septic system is 
proposed, there are concerns how runoff from the leaching area and reserve area has been accounted for and to 
confirm that the replication area will not receive concentrated discharge or altered hydrology from the septic 
system.  She is looking for mitigation and is in agreement with a 2:1 ratio for mitigation.  H. Jaime was also in 
favor of contacting DPW with regard to the drainage already in place.  R. Burch stated that he would like to see 
an additional replication area on the other side of the driveway as well as the one on the plan, acknowledging that 
this is an isolated wetland.  M. Wilson stated that a construction schedule needs to be added to the site plan as 
well as the requested water garden as discussed. 
 
Motion By: M. Doucette to continue to 9/2 
Second: R. Burch 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
M. Wilson - AYE 
 
b. 157 Goodrich Street:NOI-26-25 
Notice of Intent by Stephen Violette for the construction of an irrigation pond 
G. Roy (Dillis & Roy) for the applicant who stated that and Order of Conditions was granted to construct a drive 
up to the location of the proposed irrigation pond.  That driveway has been constructed and is close to completion.  
This irrigation pond will be used to irrigate this portion of S. Violette’s farm.  Pursuant to the Wetlands Protection 
Act Section 10.35, subsection E, 20,000 sf of bordering wetlands can be converted for the purposes of an 
irrigation pond.  The concept and location was laid out by the USDA.  The wetlands were previously delineated.  
The irrigation pond will be completely isolated.  The location will be excavated and will be lower than the 
wetland.  The pond will utilize the existing water table as the water table close to the surface.  They will be 
dewatering as a part of excavation.  The dewatering line will run along the edge of S. Violette’s field to the top of 
the property where it will not interfere with anything using the existing topography.  In addition, they are 
proposing to build and access road not only for construction but also to be permanently left in place for access to 
the irrigation pond.  M. Wilson asked it this parcel had to be in farm use.  G. Roy stated that he is unsure, however 
USDA is involved in this project and they provided the schematics and plans for this.  M. Wilson questioned 
erosion controls for the new driveway.  After discussion it was decided that the lower portion of the driveway 
would require erosion control.  M. Wilson questioned the depth of the irrigation pond which is about 15 feet with 
a natural soil bottom.  Discussion took place regarding surrounding ponds and the impact of the proposed new 
pond on existing ponds.  G. Roy feels that the proposed pond is isolated but will report back to the Commission.  
The discussed how much water would be drawn from the pond.  G. Roy stated that the plans were laid out by 
USDA and he will provide the information to the Commission.  The question was raised as to the use of the 
instant lot for the irrigation pond.  R. Bursch stated that when the driveway was approved it was for a future 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
residence.  G. Roy stated that the lot does conform to the requirements for a residential lot however, the other 
access driveway for this farm is in a very difficult place on Lancaster Avenue.  In the future, this driveway could 
function as the residential driveway.  At this time there is no proposal for a house on this property.  The question 
was raised as to whether there would need to be a change in use in farming to use the exemptions.  G. Roy will 
get back to the Commission with the answer. P. Whitney of 137 Goodrich Street was present at the meeting.  P. 
Whitney has concerns that the proposed pond with drain her existing certified wildlife refuge.  G. Roy stated that 
it is their job as engineers to make sure that when any project involving water is proposed, that it does not at the 
property boundaries does not change anything.  Based on what is known of the groundwater characteristics, there 
is enough tributary area that feeds both P. Whitney’s Pond and the proposed pond and the construction of the 
proposed pond will not adversely affect P. Whitney’s pond.  P. Whitney stated that she want assurances that there 
will be no disturbances to her pond.  G. Roy it is always a concern and has been a concern including with USDA 
involvement.  The project was laid out so not to adversely harm the hydraulic characteristics of P. Whitney’s pond.  
The question was asked as to what the recourse would be if the proposed pond adversely affected P. Whitney’s 
current pond.  That would result in a civil dispute between abutters however G. Roy stated that they would be 
taking all the precaution during planning and design of the proposed pond so that would not happen. 
 
Motion By: T. Douchette to continue to 8/19 
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
M. Wilson - AYE 
 
5. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
a. 1625 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-10 (Continued from 5/6/26/26) 
H. Jaime is asking for a continuance on behalf of the applicant to continue to resolve issues. 
Continued to 8/19 by request of the applicant  
 
b. 934 Massachusetts Avenue NOI-26-17 (Continued from 7/15/26) 
Notice of Intent by Unitil for construction of a new substation and replacement of utility poles 
Motion By: M. Larouche to continue to 8/19 
Second: T. Doucette 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
M. Wilson - AYE 
 
c. 507 West Townsend Road NOI 26-19 (Continued from 6/3/26) 
Notice of Intent by Jahnke Construction LLC for the construction of single family home with wetland crossing 
Zach (New England Environmental Design) was present for the applicant.  Zach stated that based on 
conversations from the last meeting he has included a planting list.  He also addressed the stream crossing 
standards and updated the crossing.  Instead of the proposed culverts, they have been replaced with open bottom 
box culverts which won’t disturb any wetland as it sits just outside of the wetland.  This meets or exceeds the 
general standard of the stream crossing.  There will be no wetland filling or need for replication and leaves the 
stream sides intact.  The construction sequence is noted on the plan.  DEP’s comments were with the previously 
proposed culvert not being sufficient and the current plan has rectified this.  R. Bursch stated that he wants to 
make sure that all the stabilization and plants are in place at the time that the culvert is installed.  That condition 
will be written into the Order.  In additional a 2 growing season supervision will be in place. 
 
Motion by: T. Doucette to approve Order of Conditions to include stabilization and plantings are in 
place at the time the culver is installed and 2 year growing supervision. 
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
M. Wilson - AYE 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
 
d. 701 Reservoir Road NOI-26-21 (Continued from 7/1/26) 
Notice of Intent by the Reservoir Recreational Trust for the construction of anew concrete boat ramp on Lake 
Shirley at Shady Point 
Request to continue until August 19th by Dillis & Roy 
Motion By:  M. Larouche to continue until 8/19 
Second: T. Doucetts 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson - AYE 
 
e. 91 Round Road PKA 10 Parmenter Road NOI-26-22 (Continued from 7/1/26) 
Notice of Intent by Benjamin Builders minor site work for driveway entrance and Rain Garden 
G. Roy (Dillis & Roy) was present.  A DEP number was received and there were no comments.  This is the last lot 
so there was the benefit of working all the comments and concerns previously discussed.  A stone trench feeds 
into a rain garden at the base of the driveway.  There is no work proposed within the 30 foot buffer.  T. Doucette 
requested an overall plan of the property, which was provided. There were questions with regard to the 
maintenance and management of the rain gardens, which is overseen by the Planning Board. 
Motion By: M. Larouche to approve Notice of Intent 
Second: R. Bursch 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
 
f. 15 White Street NOI-26-23 (Continued from 7/15/26)Notice of Intent by Carlos Silvera for the repair/upgrade 
of a failed septic system 
Luke Rotti, soil evaluator.  This is for the replacement of an existing failed system.  The replacement system is 
further from the wetlands than the existing system.  A DEP number was received and there were no comments.  
There was a question from DEP on the parcel number.  H. Jaime met with the applicant and it was corrected and 
sent to DEP. 
Motion By: M. Larouche to approve Notice of Intent 
Second: R. Bursch 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
 
6. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS:  
a. Adminstrator’s Determination - None 
b. Amended Order of Conditions: None 
c. Extension Request Permits:  None 
d. Certificates of Compliance: 
i.  23 Tilton Ave COC-26-5 
H. Jaime gave her report.  No resource area impacts were observed at the time of inspection. 
Motion: M. Larouche to approve issuance of Certificate of Compliance 
Second: R. Bursch 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
e. Notice of Project Change:  None 
7. ENFORCEMENT 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings: 
i. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
A Notice of Enforcement Conference was received from DEP dated July 20, 2026.  The Commission had issued 
an Enforcement Order to the property owner.  They called and complied within the required amount of time.  
The engineer stated that they would have someone there to do the deliniations.  They were going to come 
before the Commission toward the end of the work.  The owner/engineer will be meeting with DEP and will 
advise H. Jamie of the outcome.        
b. Emergency Certifications: None 
 
8. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Updates:  
i.  Cowdrey Trail Overgrowth & Bridge 
An email received from K. Duffy regarding the overgrowth at Cowdrey Trail as well as no bridge to cross the 
water.  H. Jaime stated that she feels putting a plan in place to address this rather than just allowing a resident to 
cut back the trail should be discussed by the Commission.  M. Wilson is familiar with that area and will try and 
get down there or others familiar with the trails and report back to the Commission.  There is also the 
possibility of volunteers helping.  There was work done there the spring before last headed by Josci Gilchrest 
and her husband with a lot of volunteers.  M. Wilson will reach out and report back. 
ii. Library Program on Conservation Property 
H. Jamie stated that the library reached out to for a mycologist from Boston to lead a 2 hour mushroom walk 
through the Lane property covering the basics of mushroom habits, ID and ecology and helping to prepare 
participants for safe forages of their own. They would like to hold it late morning or afternoon during the week 
sometime in early October.  The walk is booked for Friday October 2 from 11 am to 1 pm with Jonathan. 
Crowns.  M. Wilson said that they do ask for notification of events and if it free or there is a charge.  It is 
possible that if the event is not free, insurance would be required.  M. Larouche has concerns of liability should 
someone pick a nonedible mushroom and he would like it to be clear that this would be a general discussion 
and not the gathering of mushrooms that may or may not be edible. 
Motion By:  M. Larouche to approve the event 
Second:  T. Doucette 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
Commission Open Discussion 
b. By-Law Discussion 
H. Jaime gave an overview of what is being proposed.  A vote would be necessary by mid-September.  There were 
no questions from the Commission.  Continued until there is a full board. 
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget:  
i. Eagle Scout Project 
There a scout that wants to make picnic tables ADA compliant so people with wheelchairs and scoots can enjoy 
a picnic with their families.  B. Pease got the actual cost for materials at Maki lumber and it was $548. M. 
Wilson proposed funding out of the timber rights fund, not to exceed $600.  H. Jaime stated that there is a 
change is rules and now the recipient is responsible for funding.  H. Jaime will facilitate the funding. 
Motion By:  T. Doucette to approve the funding not to exceed $600 from the timber account 
Second:  M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
 
ii. Leger Advertisement 
The Leger reached out to department to see if there is any interest in advertisement.  M. Wilson said that a 
quarter page ad would be $125 and she feels it is important to remain visible and suggested the pen drawing 
from the website.  According to the Leger there was very little response to the idea.  H. Jaime said that in a 
previous municipality there was a page for new homeowners that included information and direction should 
===PAGE 6===
   
 
they need help.  Previously information was included with tax bills.  The Commission agreed that a page on the 
website was a great idea that would cover many topics. 
b. Encroachment Issues: None to discuss. 
c. Hollis Rd Residence:  
M. Larouch said that back in May roofing materials were approved for the shed.  Due to doubling up, they are a 
bundle short so is asking for funding for an additional bundle of roof shingle to finish the shed. 
Motion By: M. Larouche to approve the funding not to exceed $100 from the HAAS Act 
Second: T. Doucette 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
M. Doucette said that the carpet was clean at the Hollis Road house and still has a pet odor to it.  He has gone 
ahead and scheduled two local carpet people to give a number of what it would cost to replace the carpet to get an 
idea should we want to replace them. T. Doucette said that he did inspect and could tell there had been pets there 
but for a competitive rate there is opportunity to secure a custodian for the property.  M. Wilson agrees that there 
are other ways to deal with odor that might be cheaper.  H. Jaime reached out to the Town Manger with regard to 
the discrepancies between our facilities manager and was hesitate to have someone occupy the property at this 
point.   H. Jaime feels that it is in the best interest for everyone to sit down and say this is how we are going to 
move forward and this is how we are going to do it and where the funds are coming from and show how it can be 
done.  There is a lag between what the house brings in and what can be done to update it.  H. Jaime asked for 
anyone that would be available to add context to attend the meeting.  M. Wilson would like to plan the meeting 
around the chair’s availability.  H. Jaim                                e would like to also include town counsel as she would 
like this to keep moving forward.  Mike Doucette said that he is available when the meeting is scheduled. 
d. Committee Reports – No Update 
i. Master Plan Steering Committee: No update 
ii. Open Space: No update 
iii. Storm Water: No update 
10. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT 
11. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. Wednesday 8/9 at 7:00PM by Zoom 
ADJOURN  
 
Motion By: R. Bursch to adjourn at 9:53 pm 
Second: T. Doucette 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Andrea Schnepf – 
 