===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Teddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Vacant 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
Tel: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jamie – Conservation Agent 
Michael Gale – Admin Assistant 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, 17 June 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call:  
Present: J. Pewtherer, A. Burnap, M. Larouche, M. Wilson. 
Absent: R. Bursch, T. Doucette (joined at 24:32) 
Call to Order at 7:04pm by J. Pewtherer 
2. APPOINTMENTS: None 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment: None 
b. Pollinator Habitat Update 
M. Larouche reported happenings at the Habitat, such as monarch butterflies, new growth, flowers blooming, and 
helpful bugs. Looking forward to rain to avoid the need to water. Several pictures were shared. 
c. Invasive Plant Removal  
Lise from Red Trillium Gardens would like to put together a fall invasive manual plant removal day, starting with 
the Lane property. 
d. Minutes of Previous Meetings:  
06/03/2026 
There were insufficient participants from the last meeting to approve the minutes. 
4. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws: 
a. 44 Peninsula Drive: RDA-26-4 
Request for Determination of Applicability by Edward Kukkula for the construction of an open carport 
E. Kukkula presented the project.  
Motion: M. Larouche, for a negative determination. 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
 
b. 71 Chestnut Street: RDA-26-5 
Request for Determination of Applicability by Jeffrey Wilson for the reconstruction of an asphalt driveway 
J. Wilson presented the project to replace an existing driveway. H. Jaime’s report concluded “The proposed 
activity is limited to maintenance and replacement of an existing impervious surface and is not expected to result 
in alterations to wetland resource areas.” 
Motion: M. Larouche, for a negative determination. 
Second M. Wilson 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE J. Pewtherer – AYE 
5. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
a. 1625 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-10 (Continued from 05/06/26) 
Notice of Intent by the Town of Lunenburg Conservation Commission for the construction of an ADA parking and 
re-construction of an existing hiking trail at Cowdery Nature Center.  
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) represented the Commission and noted that alternatives are still being generated. Still 
trying to resolve issues with Finance regarding the Mass Trails grant. A meeting with all involved will be set up to 
resolve the various issues. 
Motion: M. Wilson, to continue until July 15 expecting: 
1. Mass Trails funding clarified and documented 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
860 New West Townsend Road: NOI-26-1 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Daniel & Rachel Brackett for a common driveway to provide access to four residential lots 
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicants. The Commission wanted the results of the Planning Board 
for peer review, which is scheduled for next week.  
Motion: M. Larouche, to continue until July 1 expecting: 
1. Results of Planning Board peer review 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
b. 56 Ruth Street: NOI-26-16 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Benjamin Builders for the construction of common driveway entrance with related drainage 
basin and site grading 
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicant. This is for lots 2-4. Results of the Planning Board peer review 
have been uploaded to OpenGov as has the requested alternative analysis. G. Roy provided a complete overview 
since it has been several weeks since the last discussion. Some areas will be restored to natural conditions. The 
site is subject to stormwater management. No DEP questions as it is local jurisdiction only. He covered all peer 
review questions. 
T. Doucette asked for the planting list. G. Roy explained that they were using infiltration basins, so there was no 
planting schedule. 
Motion: T. Doucette, to approve as presented. 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
c. 934 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-17 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Unitil for the construction of a new substation and replacement of utility poles 
Applicant requested a continuance to July 1. 
Motion: M. Larouche, to continue until July 1 at the request of the applicant. 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
===PAGE 3===
   
 
 
d. 18 Oak Ridge Road: NOI-26-14 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Steven Vitone & Melissa McCarthy for the demolition and reconstruction of a single-family 
home with a new sewage disposal system.  
Dan Wolfe (David Ross Associates) represented the applicants. Changes have resulted in clearing the 50-foot zone 
and moved completely out of the flood plain. The proposed deck is now outside the 50-foot zone as well. H. 
Jaime requested that any approval include conditions regarding debris removal. 
Motion: M. Larouche, to approve with the following added to standard conditions: 
1. Debris and staging must be outside the 100-foot buffer. 
Second M. Wilson 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
e. 146 Youngs Road: NOI-26-18 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Nichols Excavating, LLC for the replacement of a failed septic system 
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) represented the applicant. The DEP number was missing at the last meeting but has 
been added. The Board of Health has approved the plan. 
Motion: T. Doucette, to approve as presented 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
f. 507 West Townsend Road: NOI-26-19 (Continued from 06/03/26) 
Notice of Intent by Jahnke Construction LLC for the construction of a single-family home with a wetland 
crossing   
Motion: M. Larouche, to continue to 1 July 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
6. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS: None 
a. Amended Order of Conditions: 
b. Extension Request Permits: 
c. Certificates of Compliance: 
d. Notice of Project Change: 
7. ENFORCEMENT 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings: 
i. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
H. Jaime noted that an email exchange with DEP asked for specific updates and their USDA contact, as they are 
suggesting it is, or will be, farmland. 
ii. 314 Highland St 
H. Jaime discussed the issue with the property owner. He had his driveway repaired, and the contractor 
suggested the drainage pipe to reduce ice formation. She explained his options and he stated he preferred the 
replication and fine. She reviewed the GIS but could not identify the water source.  
Motion: T. Doucette, to approve the following remediation items: 
1. Under Commission supervision, install riprap in the buried pipe 
2. Install a restoration area 
Second M. Larouche 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
b. Emergency Certifications: None 
8. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Updates: None 
b. Topics Unknown – 48 Hrs. Advance of Meeting 
H. Jaime suggested we all follow the Environmental Bond Bill. They did not vote, so there is still time to 
comment. 
c. By-Law Discussion 
H. Jaime needs to talk with Legal before we move forward. 
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget:  
H. Jaime reviewed her findings from her finance discussions.  This included noting that some funds are not in 
MUNIS but are managed by the Town Manager directly. 
i. FY26: Close Out  
H. Jaime shared the YTD reports. After each report, the budget for next year was discussed and voted. 
ii. FY27: Budget 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the following for the Hollis Road Revolving Fund 2027 
1. $10,000 for Purchase of Services 
2. $17,026.54 for Maintenance of Grounds 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the following for the Timber Rights Revolving Fund 2027 
1. $10,000 for Purchase of Services 
2. $30,329.11 for Supplies 
Second T. Doucette 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
J. Pewtherer reminded the Commission that these funds come from forestry activities which are allowed across 
large timeframes.  
Motion: M. Wilson, to approve the following for the Wetlands Protection Bylaw Fees 2027 
3. $9,350 for Supplies 
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
Mass Trail Grant does not need a budget set.  General discussion on uncertainty regarding the status of the 
account and the proper procedures will need further meetings to resolve. 
 
b. Encroachment Issues: None to discuss. 
c. Hollis Rd Residence: 
i. ATV use in Hollis Area/PH 
   Signs have been posted.  (4 NO ATV signs and 1 Wetlands sign.) 
   VODA Cleaning has been scheduled for July 6/7. 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   A meeting with the Town Manager and the Commission will be scheduled. 
d. Committee Reports – Any Update 
i. Master Plan Steering Committee: No update 
ii. Open Space: No update 
iii. Storm Water: Meeting on the 24th 
10. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT 
M. Wilson described all the work the NHS students have done as well as the Eagle Scout candidates looking for 
projects. 
M. Wilson described a violation at Zero Reservoir Road. It is not Conservation land, so we may need Select Board 
approval to run projects on the property.  
J. Pewtherer noted that Brad Coons was on the call for most of the meeting and is moving forward in the process to 
become a commissioner. 
11. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. Wednesday 07/01 at 7:00PM by Zoom 
12. ADJOURN 
Motion: M. Wilson, to adjourn at 9:43PM  
Second M. Larouche 
Vote: M. Wilson – AYE M. Larouche – AYE A. Burnap - AYE T. Doucette – AYE 
 J. Pewtherer - AYE    
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Michael Gale - Admin Asst. 