===PAGE 1===
   
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Jennifer Pewtherer 
Richard Bursch 
Michael Larouche 
Mary Wilson 
Teddy Doucette 
Andrea Burnap 
Vacant 
Chair 
Vice Chair 
Clerk 
Member 
Member 
Member 
Member                
Tel: (978) 582-4146 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Herlin Jaime – Conservation Agent 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, August 19, 2026 – 7:00 PM | Zoom (Remote) 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
Roll Call:  
Present: R. Burch, A. Burnap, M. Larouche, and T. Doucette (arrived later), M. Wilson 
Absent:  J. Pewtherer 
Call to Order at 7:04 pm by R. Burch 
2. APPOINTMENTS 
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
a. Public Comment. (Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair)  
b. Pollinator Habitat Update 
M. Larouche said it was a busy week with many pictures being submitted which were uploaded by M. 
Wilson.  Mowing can continue with new blades with the lawnmower.  They were able to capture a 
spectacular shot of a 7 inch swallow tail, which was very special.  The new roof on the shed is 
progressing nicely. 
c. Minutes of Previous Meetings: 08/05/26 
Motion: M. Wilson to approve  
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, Mary Wilson – AYE 
4. NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
All hearings are pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws: 
a. 200 Island Road: RDA-26-8 
A Request for Determination of Applicability by John Harrison for the reskinning and expansion of an 
existing deck structure while adding a roof to enclosure a portion of the new deck structure. 
Chris Baker was present representing John Harrison and Bertivia Homes.  The existing 20 foot by 22 
foot deck is proposed to be expanded to approximately 30 feet by 22 feet.  A portion of the deck would 
be enclosed with a roof and screen porch.  The applicant proposed the use of helical piles and timber 
mating to minimize soil disturbance.  Materials would be staged on the driveway outside the 100 foot 
buffer and no refueling would occur on site. 
The Commission discussed stormwater flow and erosion protection.  The commission requested that a 
siltation barrier/hay bales or straw wattles be installed from the western corner of the rear of the house 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
around the work area to the eastern corner.  The contractor will contact the Conservation Office for 
approval of the siltation barrier before construction. 
M. Wilson reported that she had participated in the site walk and had no concerns with the project.  M 
Larouche asked about the roof and drainage.  The applicant stated that water would flow naturally 
toward the side of the house and then toward 200 Island Road. 
Motion: M. Wilson for a Negative determination with the condition that hay bales or straw wattles 
be installed from the western corner of the rear of the house the eastern corner and that 
the contractor contact the office for approval of the siltation barrier prior to construction. 
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, Mary Wilson – AYE 
5. CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
a. 1625 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-10 (Continued from 07/15/26)  
Notice of Intent by the Town of Lunenburg Conservation Commission for the construction of an ADA 
parking and re-construction of an existing hiking trail at Cowdery Nature Center.  
M. Wilson provided an update regarding a proposed change to the project.  The original project 
contemplated improving access through the wetland to the existing wildlife viewing platform.  Due to 
wetland conditions and the existing roadway having become enveloped by wetlands, an alternative 
access from Mulpus side is being considered.  The proposed alternative would include ADA-accessible 
trail improvements and a bridge to connect to the wildlife viewing area. 
Approximately $24,000 remains available under the existing Mass Recreational Trails grant.  A revised 
engineering scope was discussed at approximately $21,180.  The revised quote will be circulated to the 
Commission for review.  The matter was continued to September 2, 2026. 
Motion: L. Larouche to Continue to September 2, 2026 
Second: A. Burnap 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, Mary Wilson – AYE 
b. 934 Massachusetts Avenue: NOI-26-17 (Continued from 08/05/26) 
Notice of Intent by Unitil for the construction of a new substation and replacement of utility poles 
Applicant requested a continuance until September 26, 2026 
Motion: M. Wilson to Continue to September 2, 2026 
Second: M. Larouch 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, Mary Wilson – AYE 
c. 701 Reservoir Road: NOI-26-21 (Continued from 08/05/26) 
Notice of Intent by the Reservoir Recreational Trust for the construction of a new concrete boat ramp 
on Lake Shirley at Shady Point 
Applicant requested a continuance 
T. Doucette arrived before this hearing 
Motion: M. Wilson to Continue to September 2, 2026 
Second: M. Larouch 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, Mary Wilson – AYE, T. Doucette - 
AYE 
d. 108 Sunny Hill Road: NOI-26-24  Previously Continued to 09/02 
Notice of Intent by Jacqueline Rager for a driveway crossing of isolated wetland area (BYLAW ONLY) 
e. 157 Goodrich Street: NOI-26-25 
Notice of Intent by Stephen Violette for the construction of an irrigation pond 
Ryan Proctor (Dill & Roy) represented the applicant and presented a revised site plan addressing 
comments from DEP and the Commission.  The revisions included an area for soil stockpiling outside 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
the 100 foot buffer, erosion controls along the proposed access road and property line and additional 
erosion controls. 
The applicant stated that the project is subject to a Water Quality Certificate because of the amount of 
bordering vegetative wetland removal.  The applicant agreed to include approval of the Water Quality 
Certificate as a condition prior to construction. 
The commission discussed the proposed pond, its relationship to the adjacent pond at 137 Goodrich 
Street, stormwater and groundwater, the proposed grading, stabilization and wetland replication.  
Patricia Whitney of 137 Goodrich Street expressed concerns regarding the potential effect of the 
proposed pond on her existing pond and requested an opportunity to review the plans in person with the 
applicant/consultant.  The Commission requested that the wetland replication area associated with the 
top of the berm be specifically identified by the square footage on the plan.  The applicant also discussed 
primarily using drip irrigation, although it was stated that there may be circumstances requiring 
overhead irrigation. 
Motion: T. Doucette to Continue to September 2, 2026 
Second: M. Wilson 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, Mary Wilson – AYE, T. Doucette - 
AYE 
6. ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS:  
a. Administrator’s Determination - None 
b. Amended Order of Conditions: None 
c. Extension Request Permits:  None 
d. Certificates of Compliance: 
i.  420 Goodrich Street COC-26-5 
A request was made for an old Order of Conditions issued in 1990.  J. Jaime reported that the file did not 
contain the complete DEP file number and that she had contact DEP for additional information.  She 
inspected the property and observed that the property appeared stable and that there was no further 
encroachment.  H. Jaime recommended issuance of the Certificate of Compliance.   
Motion: M. Larouche to approve issuance of Certificate of Compliance 
Second: R. Wilson 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
e. Notice of Project Change:  None 
7. ENFORCEMENT 
a. Violations, Enforcement Actions, and Hearings: 
i. 1168 Mass Ave Rear 
Brian Marcetti of McCarty Engineering provided an update following a meeting with DEP.  DEP is expected to 
issue a final notice and direction regarding required remediation in approximately one month.  The Commission 
will remain in communication with the applicant and DEP regarding the required work.  H. Jaime 
recommended extending the enforcement deadline by 60 days so that the Commission’s requirement can 
remain consistent with DEP’s direction. 
Motion: T. Doucette to extend the Enforcement Order for 60 days to October 21, 2026 
Second: A. Burnap 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – AYE,  
Mary Wilson – Recuse 
b. Emergency Certifications: 
i. 467 Lancaster Ave Rear 
H. Jamie reported that an emergency certification had been issued to allow removal of vegetation, woody debris, 
sediment and other obstructions for an existing culver and drainage channel in order to restore adequate flow and 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
alleviate flooding of Lancaster Avenue and an adjacent residential property.  The Commission was asked to ratify 
the emergency certification. 
Motion: M. Willson to ratify the Emergency Certification 
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE 
8. NEW BUSINESS 
a. Updates:  
The Recreational Department will hold a Touch-A-Truck event on Friday, August 28th from 12:00 pm to 2:30 pm.  
H. Jaime will attend with a table and materials for community engagement.  Conservation and wetlands 
permitting materials will be available. 
Commission Open Discussion 
b. By-Law Discussion 
H. Jaime discussed proposed language changed to the Wetland Protection Bylaw regarding the fee schedule.  The 
proposed language had been prepared under the advisement of Adam Costa and had not yet been review by Town 
Counsel.  The commission discussed the required process and notification schedule for bylaw changed.  It was 
agreed that the matter should be continued until the full commission is present, including the Chair.  The target for 
the proposed changed was identified as the May Town Meeting. 
9. OLD BUSINESS 
a. Conservation budget: None to discuss 
b. Encroachment Issues: None to discuss. 
c. Hollis Rd Residence:  
M. Larouche presented three flooring quotes.  On quote from Empire Group was $4,190.53 for replacement 
carpeting throughout the carpeted areas of the house, including new pad and vinyl flooring in the laundry room.  
Two additional quotes for vinyl plank flooring were $9,645.22 and $10,063.81. 
The Commission discussed the relative costs and durability of carpet versus vinyl plank flooring.  The 
Commission discussed the relative costs and durability of carpet versus vinyl plan flooring.  The Commission also 
discussed the existing wood stove, possible advertising for its removal and the condition of the residence.  A 
motion was initially made to proceed with the carpeting and vinyl flooring but questions arose regarding 
procurement requirements and prevailing wage requirements.  The Commission ultimately tabled the flooring 
decision pending clarification of the applicable requirements.  The Commission also discussed smoke detectors 
and an upcoming Fire Department visit to the property.  Additional information and pricing will be obtained 
before the next discussion.  
d. Committee Reports  
i. Master Plan Steering Committee: No update 
ii. Open Space: No update 
iii. Storm Water: No update 
10. COMMUNICATIONS / PUBLIC COMMENT 
11. UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: 
a. Wednesday 9/2 at 7:00PM by Zoom 
ADJOURN  
Motion By: M. Wilson to adjourn at 9:53 pm 
Second: M. Larouche 
Roll Call Vote: R. Bursch, AYE,  A. Burnap – AYE, M. Larouche – AYE, T. Doucette – Aye,  
Mary Wilson – AYE  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Andrea Schnepf – 