===PAGE 1===
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
between the
LUNENBURG SCHOOL COMMITTEE
and the
LUNENBURG EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
This MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT is entered into by and between the Lunenburg
School Committee (Committee") and the Lunenburg Education Association ("Association").
WHEREAS, the Committee and the Association have entered into a Collective Bargaining
Agreement for the period of July 1, 2021, through and including June 30, 2024; and,
WHEREAS, the duly authorized representatives of the Committee and the duly authorized
representatives of the Association have met, pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter
150E, to negotiate a successor agreement; and,
WHEREAS, said representatives of the Committee and the Association have, subject to
ratification by the membership of the Committee and the Association, agreed to a successor
agreement for the period of July 1, 2024, through and including June 30, 2027;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual promises and covenants, the parties hereto
agree as follows:
1. Prior Agreement
The Collective Bargaining Agreement in effect for the period July 1, 2021 through and
including June 30, 2024, shall be in full force and effect for the period July 1, 2024
through and including June 30, 2027, except as modified by this MEMORANDUM OF
AGREEMENT.
2. Duration
Three Years - July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2027.
3. Housekeeping:
A. Use gender neutral language throughout the agreement
B. Renumber Articles of Contract in sequential order
4. Article III, Section B; Modify as follows:
Page 1 of 9
===PAGE 2===
1. In the event of the death of a spouse or child, ten (10) bereavement days will be
granted.
2. t. For death in the immediate family of the teacher, an absence up to five (5) calendar
days will be granted without loss of pay or other leave benefits.
3. 2. The immediate family is to be construed as spouse and children, mother, father,
grandparent, grandchild, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law or any other person
who lives within the same household.
4. 3. In the event of death of other close relatives, one (I) day will be granted.
5. In the event of a death of other close relative, two (2) additional days may be
granted by the Superintendent if travel in excess of 120 miles is required.
5. Article III, Section G; Modify as follows:
G. Availability of Pay for Statutory Leaves and Availability of Additional Unpaid Leave
The statutes referenced above provide for unpaid leave in the amounts indicated in the
sections above and in the laws and regulations referenced. The statutes provide that the
question of whether leave will be paid is governed by the policies of the employer. In this
case, the policies of the employer pertaining to paid leave are embodied in this
Agreement. This section clarifies and sets forth the situations and amounts of paid leave
available to be used concurrently with the statutory leaves described above.
1.
Childbirth and Pregnancy Related Leave. In addition to applicable state and
federal law, parental leave (birth, non-birth, and adoption) employees shall
be granted twenty (20) days of paid leave. Employees may supplement these
twenty (20) days with forty (40) days of accrued (sick, personal) time. Paid
teave for the employee who gives birth to a baby is available as outlined in the
preeeding seetion, based upon doeumented medieal need, subjeet to the employee
having available sick leave.
2. a. Employees seeking parental leave shall provide written notification to
the school district within calendar sixty (60) days before the start of the leave.
Employees may take a year leave of absence at their discretion. That year
shall include the twenty (20) days of paid leave, and may be supplemented
with up to forty (40) days of accrued leave. All other time shall be unpaid.
Any employee availing themselves of this benefit must pay the employee
portion of the health insurance premium.
b. For employees electing to take a year leave, the leave shall occur in the
semester in which the child arrives plus the following semester. For members
Page 2 of 9
===PAGE 3===
2.
3.
4.
6. 5.
electing to take a year leave and whose arrives in June, July or August, leave
shall occur the next fall and spring semesters.
Non-Birthing Parent. If an employee becomes a parent without giving birth (e.g.,
because employee's spouse gives birth to a baby, or the employee adopts a child
aged 5 or over) and is therefore not eligible for sick leave due to the employee's
own temporary disabrity, the employee will be able to aceess up to 15 days of
available siek leave to cover FMLA/MPLA qualifying parental leave upon
presentation to the District of suitable documentation.
Adoption. If an employee adopts a young child under the age of 5, the employee
may aeeess up to 8 weeks (40 days) of available sick leave to cover
FMLAIMPLA qualifying parental leave upon presentation to the District of
suitable documentation. If both parents are employees of the Distriet the 8 weeks
shall be in the aggregate.
Extended Unpaid Parental Leave. An employee may request an extension of
umpaid parental leave of up to 20 school days. The Superintendent shall have the
discretion to grant or deny such a request after giving due consideration to the
needs of the District and the needs of the teacher.
Family Sick Leave. Employees who access FMLA or SNLA qualifying leave in
connection with the illness of a family member-may access paid leave only as set
forth here.
a.
Employees may access paid personal leave, if available, for SNA leave.
b.
For FMLA leave taken for the illness of a family member (approved in
accordance with the District's FMLA policy and procedures), employees
may access up to 60 25 days of their own accrued unused sick leave in
order to be paid for part of the leave.
In extraordinary cireumstanees, an employee after exhausting the 25 days
of sick leave available in section b, may apply to the Stperintendent who
shall have the diseretion to permit access to an additional 20 days of
aeerued sick leave for MLA leave.
c t. In all cases under this provision the source of leave shall be limited to the
employee's own accrued unused sick leave, not sick leave bank or any
other source of leave.
6. Article VII, New Section F; Insert new section as follows:
F.
Candidate interviews shall be conducted for the following stipended positions:
dean of students, building leadership team, department head, nursing coordinator,
curriculum coordinators, and mentor coordinator.
7. Article XIII, Section B; Modify the first paragraph as follows:
Page 3 of 9
===PAGE 4===
Each member of the bargaining unit, school administrators, superintendent of schools,
assistants, upon the accumulation of twenty (20) sick days at the start end of a school
year, become eligible for membership in the Sick Leave Bank. Membership in the bank
is mandatory and upon accrual of required days, members They then will
automatically contribute two (2) sick days initially and one (I) sick day each succeeding
year until each member has contributed five (5) days. Members will be able to draw
from the bank upon completion of the first contribution of two (2) days.
8. Article IX, Modify as follows:
The Committee and the Association acknowledge that a teacher's primary responsibility
is to teach and that his energies should, to the extent reasonably practicable, be utilized to
this end. The Committee has no present intention to make any substantial increase in the
non-teaching duties that would affect a wide segment of teachers, and should
circumstances change, would do so only after negotiation with the Association. On the
other hand, the Committee recognizes that it may be desirable to relieve teachers of other
non-teaching duties than now provided for in each building and, accordingly, will study
additional methods and means designed to provide that in each building more of the
teacher's time may be devoted to activities of direct benefit to students. Issues arising
with respect to interpretation or application of the above, while they may be "grievances"
under this Agreement, shall not be arbitrable.
Building leadership, administrators and LEA building representatives, will work
together to create a mutually agrecable duty schedule. Non-teaching duties shall
include: morning and afternoon bus, arrival and dismissal (classroom and hall),
drop-off and dismissal, recess, lunch, study hall, and advisory/homeroom.
9. Article XVI, Section B, paragraph 2; Modify as follows:
Teachers remaining in the school system may receive their accumulated summer pay in a
lump sum if they have so requested, in writing, to the Payroll and Benefits person
Superintendent of Schoots by June Ist of each year. This also will be paid on or before
June 30th.
10. Article XVIII, Section C; Modify by including the following:
31. BCBA
11. Article XIX, Section B; Modify as follows:
Page 4 of 9
===PAGE 5===
B.
The School Committee shall wilt allow the LEA President and Contract
Manager to not be assigned duties exeused from a duty or advisery not to exeeed
thirty (30) minutes per week in order to respond to emails and phone calls, and to
communicate or meet with union membership.
12. Article XX, Section A; Modify as follows:
A. For the duration of the July 1, 2024 202+ to June 30, 2027 2024 Agreement, the salary
scale in effect on June 30, 2024 202ł shall be amended as follows:
1.
Salary Schedules for FY25 - FY27 2022-2024 {Teachers, Nurses, Athletics &
Stipends).
FY25 FY22: Appendix B, 2.5% adjustment to salary schedule Apply 2.5%
adjustment to Athletic and Extra Curricular Salary Schedule
FY26 FY23: Appendix B, 4.0% 1.5% adjustment to salary schedule
Apply 4.0% 1.5% adjustment to Athletic and Extra Curricular Salary
Schedule
C.
FY27 FY24: Appendix B, 3.5% +% adjustment to salary schedule Apply
3.5% 1% adjustment to Athletic and Extra Curricular Salary Schedule
Effective July I, 2021, the parties agree to a three-year phase out of the taster
Teacher and Service Recognition Programs in exchange for the Creation of a new
step 13 in PY 23.
2.3.
3. 4.
4. 5.
Effective July 1, 2022, a new step 13 will be created that is $1,000 above Step 12.
The flat dollar amount of $1,000 will be added to step 12 after the COLA has
been applied to create the new step 13. Members on step 12 as of FY22 who are
eligible to advance to the next step will advance to step 13 effective July 1, 2022.
Members will advance from step to step, including step 13, as set forth in Article
XVI.
Effective July 1, 2023, the flat dollar amount of $500 will be added to step 13
(after the COLA has been applied).
Effective June 30, 2024, the flat dollar amount of $250 will be added to step 13.
5. G. Step increases and lane changes shall be honored in accordance with the terms of
the agreement.
6. 7. Salaries for additional duties performed in connection with Activities and
Athletics shall be amended as outlined in (a) above.
13. Article XX, Section C; Modify as follows:
Page 5 of 9
===PAGE 6===
In the event it is felt to be necessary for Guidance and Special Needs personnel to work
beyond the number of days required of all other teaching staff, they will receive
additional remuneration on a prorated per diem basis at the rate of 1/183rd t/185th of
their annual base salary. This additional time will be subject to the prior approval of the
Superintendent of Schools.
14. Article XX, Section D; Modify as follows:
New coaches will come into the assignment at the Step 1 rate; however, the Committee
reserves the right to place a new coach on another step on the basis of previous
experience in a comparable assignment in other school systems.
The salaries for Coaches are set forth in the salary schedules attached hereto and
incorporated in this Agreement. Unless otherwise negotiated, stipends and coaches
salaries shall receive the agreed upon COLA increase applied to the salary schedules
in section A of this Article.
15. Article XX, Section E; Delete entire section and reletter remaining sections. Move these
stipends into the stipend list.
16. Article XX, Section G; Modify as follows:
Members of Unit A that have completed a minimum of 30 years of continuous service to
the Lunenburg Public Schools shall receive a longevity increase. This longevity payment
will be added to the base salary and paid regularly in all payroll checks at the rate of
4%. Beginning in the 2004-2005 school year the longevity will be.5% and in 2005-2006
the rate shall be 1%:
15 to 19 years:
Add $1,200.00 to Step 12 for teachers who have completed
75 years of teaching serviee before the start of sehool year
in the Lumenburg Public Schoots
20 to 24 years:
Add $3,800.00 to Step 12 for teachers who have completed
20 years of teaching serviee before the start of school year
in the Lunenburg Publie Schoots
25 or more years.
Add $5,700.00 to Step 12 for teachers whe have completed
25 years of teaching serviee before the start of school year
in the Lumenburg Publie Schoots
Effective July I, 2022, the tongevity levels will be revised to refleet the addition of a new
step 13:
Page 6 of 9
===PAGE 7===
15 to 19 years:
20 to 24 years:
25 or more years:
Add $1,900.00 to Step 13 for teachers who have completed
15 years of teaching service before the start of school year
in the Lunenburg Public Schools
Add $3,800.00 to Step 13 for teachers who have completed
20 years of teaching service before the start of school year
in the Lunenburg Public Schools
Add $5,700.00 to Step 13 for teachers who have completed
25 years of teaching service before the start of school year
in the Lunenburg Public Schools
17. Article XX, Section J; Modify as follows:
A teacher who upon retirement from the district after a minimum of twenty (20) years of
service in Lunenburg has accumulated 100 sick days will be entitled to a one-time
payment up to $8,500.00 $2,500.00 based on a daily amount of eighty-five dollars
($85.00) fifty dotars ($50.00) per day for up to a maximum of 100 50 days, payable
before June 30th.
1.
The employee must provide the Superintendent's Office with a written
notice of retirement by December 15" in the school one year prior to the
intended date of retirement.
The employee may not use more than twelve (12) sick days in any one
year of their final two (2) years. Exemptions from this requirement during
the final two (2) years of service will be sick leave used due to
documented hospitalization, surgery, or long-term illness of the employee
or immediate family member (as defined in Article III, section B).
18. Article XX, Insert New Section K titled "National Board Certification and Multiple
Degrees" as follows:
1. National Board Certified Nurses will advance on the salary grid to "Masters".
2. Educators with a CAGS, second Masters, or nurses with Masters and Board
Certification will be placed at MA+45.
19. Article XXI, Section A; Modify the first two bullet points as follows:
Courses taken from July to December will be eligible for reimbursement in March
(first pay period of the month. Deadline to submit reimbursement documentation
to the Business Office for March reimbursement is January 15.
Page 7 of 9
===PAGE 8===
Courses taken from January to June will be eligible for reimbursement in
September (last pay period of the month). Deadline to submit reimbursement
documentation to the Business Office for September reimbursement is July 15.
20. Article XXII; Modify a follows:
Educator Evaluations shall be conducted in accordance with the instruments and
procedures contained in Professional Educator Standard of the Lunenburg Public Schools
which contains the procedures and instruments used to evaluate Educators. A standing
joint sub-committee of Administrators appointed by the Superintendent and Educators
appointed by the Association will meet at least annually for the purpose of updating the
evaluation system during the term of this agreement. Recommendations of the joint sub
committee will be subject to approval by the School Committee and the Association
membership, respectively. The document Professional Educator Standard of the
Lunenhurg Public Schools is hereby incorporated into this document as Appendix C.
21. Article XXIV, Section A; Modify as follows:
This Contract shall continue in effect to and including June 30, 2027 2024 and shall
thereafter automatically renew itself for successive terms of one year each unless by the
November Ist next prior to the year of expiration, either the Committee or the
Association shall have given the other written notice of its desire to modify or terminate
this Contract.
22. Article XXIV, Section C; Modify as follows:
The contract may be reopened for negotiation provided the parties mutually agree and for
the limited purpose of negotiating over Appendix B Athletic Salary Stipends, and/or
Extra Curricular Salary Schedule and/or Appendix C Evaluation. The purpose of these
negotiations will be to update the stipend list by adding or deleting outdated positions,
increasing or decreasing the salaries of existing stipends, adding new stipends or
modifying the evaluation. Any member of the collective bargaining unit may request
the creation of a stipended position. Such a request shall be made before January
1st. Requests shall include:
1. A statement of purpose for the position:
2. An estimate of student participation or student benefit;
3 Suggested Stipend Tier with justification
23. Upon ratification of this agreement, the Association hereby agrees to withdraw
MUP-23-10282 with prejudice.
Page 8 of 9
===PAGE 9===
This Memorandum Of Agreement is subject to the ratification by the Committee and the
Association. The Parties agree to use their best efforts to obtain ratification by their respective
bodies.
Signed in duplicate this _6th day of November, 2024.
Lunenburg School Committee
Lunenburg Education Association
Page 9 of 9
===PAGE 10===
