
Lunenburg Finance Committee Annual Report for FY25
The Lunenburg Finance Committee is reporting that Lunenburg’s financial position is changing, and some post pandemic effects are starting to show that has financial impact on the Town as a whole. In planning for the Fiscal Year 25 thanks to the Towns conservative practice for many years the Town was able to make it through the difficulties of some financial instability, as a result many of the Towns Departments are currently operating below their needs level budget. There are positions that continue to remain unfilled for a variety of reasons causing strain on said Departments that are operating without a full staff. 
The process of developing and presenting a budget to the Annual Town Meeting begins in the early Fall with the Town Manager meeting with department heads to discuss expenses, wants and needs. The Town Manager then presents the proposed budget to the Finance Committee in mid-February. Over the following 90 days, the Finance Committee meets with the various department heads to discuss their individual line time budget requests. This year additional scrutiny was given to every single line in an attempt to holistically understand the appropriation of all funds and the impact on the operational elements of all Departments. Through the deliberative process the Finance Committee determined the historic budget schedule may not offer sufficient time for appropriate analysis. The Finance Committee then votes on the recommendation of the finalized omnibus budget provided by the Town Manager and reports to the Annual Town Meeting. As a legislative body, acting on the Towns behalf, the Finance Committee recommends the approval (5-1-1) of the budget as presented at the Annual Town meeting. 
Due to the limitations of Proposition 2½, Lunenburg is restricted on its annual levy increase. The levy is comprised of real &amp; property taxes, new growth, and debt exclusion. When the needs of a municipality outpace the levy capacity, Proposition 2½ allows for overrides to be considered. An override is a permanent increase in the tax levy, spread out to all residents of the town. 

Historically, the Capital Plan has been funded through free cash, tax revenues, and unspent capital appropriation from prior years. For FY25 the Capital Plan is funded exclusively through free cash ($1,016,722.36) and unspent Capital was ($300,397.62) appropriation from prior years. The proposed Capital plan of $1,317,119.98, is a 35% decrease from the FY24 Capital funding. The reduction in Capital plan spending is partly due to the loss of $340,000.00 of 40S State funds and the allocation of $236,000.00 of certified new growth is being directed to the School Department budget. The Finance Committee recommends the approval (6-1) of the FY25 Capital plan. 
The Finance Committee has proposed a warrant for a Grant Writer in the Town of Lunenburg. The intention of hiring a person for this position would be to bring more funds to the Town with the hope that this position would pay for itself from the acquired funds that otherwise would not exist. Through collaborative research it was found that there are Grants available that could offer additional funding for the preservation and revitalization of historical land and buildings, educational tools and technologies, the cemetery commissions needs and the housing initiatives for Seniors and Veterans, among many others.
Noteworthy topics:
The end of FY24 will see a 16.39% reduction of our Debt Service and Excludible Debt, from $3,516,182.23 (FY24) to $2,939,956.12 (FY25). This decrease is the result of a reduction in the sewer debt and a reduction in MSBA excludable debt. An analysis run by UniBank in 2023 projected a variety of scenarios to guide the Town in debt capacity spending over the next 30 years. In total the Town continues to have $42,000,000.00 that will be usable while remaining under debt capacity limits. With this number in mind, the Select Board, Municipal Design Committee, and the Town will be better prepared to plan for the future. Town policy dictates not borrowing more than 4% of our operating budget for non-excludable debt. Currently the Town maintains approximately 0.7% of our operating budget in non-excludable debt while there is debt capacity there currently does not exist a funding source.
The Municipal Building design committee, various previous iterations of this committee discuss, on an ongoing basis, the buildings in Town that are in significant need of repairs, replacements, and recurring maintenance to avoid ongoing repairs. The Town will need to invest serious funds over the next five to ten years to mitigate more building disrepair. Funding sources for these types of projects are made by acquiring excludable and/or non-excludable debt, directly paid for by Lunenburg taxpayers. The financial stability of the Town will be greatly affected by the decisions made in the next five to ten years. Change to the salary administration plan, if approved at the Town meeting, offers an appropriate first step at addressing employee retention within Town Departments. There are currently multiple open positions within the Town of Lunenburg, and for a variety of reasons, low salaries have been consistently mentioned. The proposed SAP changes will increase the FY24 salary line by $XXXXX and the FY25 salary line by $XXXXXX.
40S Funds:
Fair Share Funds (millionaire’s tax) have begun to make their way into Lunenburg. The Town has seen an increase in Chapter 90 funds of $240,503.00 to be used for roads and transportation. Additionally, school meals remain free, an Associate’s Degree at local community colleges for those over 25 years of age is free and encourage the School Committee to research funding for upgrades for Facilities improvements in schools K through twelve. 
The Finance Committee has initiated conversations and advocated for the consolidation and streamlining of redundant Departments and services between the Town and the Schools. It is anticipated that these conversations will continue past this budget season to be initiative-taking for upcoming seasons. 

