===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
January 22, 2025
RITTER BUILDING, UPPER-LEVEL CONFERENCE ROOM
960 MASSACHUSETTS A VE.
 
CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
 There were no comments from the Board.
 Public
 There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of FY2025 Abatement Applications, CAI/Vision Property Record Cards Update. 
Other items as needed.
Lynda McQuade provided the following updates:
- 6 abutters list requests were received.
- 109 real estate exemptions were processed. There are an additional 6 real 
estate exemptions from the first of the year.
- A total of 16 real estate and personal property abatements applications have 
been received. The deadline is February 3rd.
- 16 motor vehicle excise tax abatements have been processed, and the office is 
currently up to date.
- 490 forms of list have been mailed out for FY 26.
Lynda McQuade confirms that the property cards online have been updated, and 
the CAI property card has been removed. Property record cards are updated once 
a year after the actual tax bill goes out.
The goals for next month include:
-      Growth for FY 26
-      Schedule inspections for FY 25 real estate and personal property    
    abatements
-      Review fiscal 26-chapter lien applications
The Interim Town Manager is working on the budget now.  Lynda McQuade submitted 
the following documents on January 21:
- Salaries, contracted services, maps, postage, office supplies, mileage 
reimbursement, dues and memberships, schooling
o $17,000 for cyclical inspections to be completed by Vision. This is a 3-
year contract.
===PAGE 2===
- $25,000 is budgeted for the neighborhood revision. Per Department of 
Revenue there are 500 lake properties that have site indexes to be reviewed.
- $7,500 to update maps.
- $22,000 for personal property appraisals by Real Estate Research Consultants 
(RRC).
CURRENT BUSINESS
  Review and Approve Minutes of January 8, 2025, December 10, 2024, November 20, 
2024, November 6, 2024, October 16, 2024, October 2, 2024, Executive Session of 
December 10, 2024.
 The Board plans to review and approve all minutes at the next meeting on 
February 5, 2025.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
 This topic was skipped for this meeting.
 Assessor Conference at the Senior Center, February 3, 2025.
 The Board reviewed the slides provided by John Rabbitt and discussed their 
edits. The Board thanked John Rabbitt for all his hard work preparing for the 
conference.
 Senior Means Tested Exemption.
There was discussion about creating a subgroup tasked at working on these 
exemptions.
 Neighborhood/Site Index Review/Plan in response to DOR Directives.
 Lynda McQuade suggests using Rena Swezey and Denise McCue to 
complete the review in-house. Lynda McQuade suggests starting with the 
lake properties.
Sarah Cammer asks if there is a document with a format or template that is 
submitted when a bid is put out. Additionally, she states that policy needs to be 
written down somewhere with characteristics that belong in a neighborhood.
 Policy and Homeowner Letter for Issues with Deeds.
Lynda McQuade confirms there have been some issues regarding clarity with 
deeds. Lynda McQuade suggests creating a policy stating if the deed is unable to 
be understood then the homeowners need to reach out to the attorney who 
prepared it. The Assessor’s Office has spoken to 2 real estate attorneys, and they 
suggest contacting the BAR association.
Sarah Cammer and Brian Laffond suggest reaching out to the registrar of deeds 
and find the policy regarding multiple properties and multiple parcels on a single 
deed.
 Assessor Website.
===PAGE 3===
Brian Laffond sent over the old versus the new spreadsheet with a pivot table 
attached. Lynda McQuade added land use codes. If all members are in agreement, 
Brian Laffond would like to add this document to the website. Approved.
POSTPONED TOPICS
  Clause 41 and 17 Assets/Income Level Adjustments for Exemptions (Brian)
  BOA Policies
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
 Upcoming Meetings: February 5, 2025, February 19, 2025, March 5, 2025, March 19, 
2025
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
 Board
There were no comments from the Board.
ADJOURN
 There was a motion to adjourn and enter into executive session by Sarah Cammer,
seconded by John Rabbitt.
The meeting closed at 8:42 PM.