===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
March 19, 2025
RITTER BUILDING, LOWER-LEVEL CONFERENCE ROOM
960 MASSACHUSETTS A VE.
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt 
Principal Assessor Lynda McQuade
CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 6:34 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
There were no comments from the Board.
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of FY2025 Abatement Applications, Vision Property Record Cards 
Update, Issue with CAI. Other items as needed.
Lynda McQuade states that the Vision appraisal for cyclical inspections will start 
next week. So far, 108 postcards have been mailed out.  Vision will be leaving a 
card on the resident’s door if nobody is home. The resident should call the office 
to schedule an appointment. If the appraiser is unable to enter the home, he will 
just measure the exterior. The Assessors’ Office will be notifying residents within 
1 to 3 weeks prior to inspections for scheduling purposes. There are 500 
properties that need to be completed by June 30th in order to be in compliance.
There was a motion to add the appraisers schedule to the website once a schedule 
has been created by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of February 19, 2025, Executive Sessions of December 10,
2024, March 19, 2025.
There was a motion to approve the executive session minutes of March 12, 2025, by 
Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense V ouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
There were no documents to review or approve.
Approved Sept. 3, 2025
===PAGE 2===
 BOA Policies
Lynda McQuade put together a policy list for the Town Manager that was then provided 
to the Board.
 Senior Means Tested Exemption.
Lynda McQuade created a new brochure with updated income levels. State and federal 
applications have also been made available.
There was a discussion about the proposed limits of $72,000 for single person, $91,000 if
an individual is the head of household, and $109,000 for joint or married.  The Board 
agrees that these numbers seem high.  Sarah Cammer suggests obtaining the town census 
to get a better idea of income levels.
 Assessor Organizational Metrics.
John Rabbitt states that the lead Assessor is now reporting to the Finance Director as 
opposed to the Town Manager.  This topic will be added to the next agenda and more 
discussion will take place on April 2, 2025.
 Homeowner Letter for Issues with Deeds.
Lynda McQuade confirms that the letter relating to issues with deeds has been approved 
and reviewed by the Town Counsel. This letter will be sent to applicants who have a deed
that the Board is unable to interpret.  If it can’t be interpreted, then the office is unable to 
add the information to the maps and it can’t be put into the system.
 Assessor Website.
Lynda McQuade states that the cyclical information has been posted to the Assessor 
website.
 Tax Billing Issue.
Ezequiel Ayala is going to be setting up training for MUNIS soon. Lynda McQuade 
strongly suggests that the Board maintains a contract with MUNIS expert, Randy 
Mercier. There have been issues in other towns with the switch over to the cloud.
Lynda McQuade confirms there has been a bridging issue between the numbers of digits 
in the IDs between Vision and MUNIS.
 FY 2026 Overlay.
 The Assessors Office received an email from Ezequiel Ayala confirming that the overlay 
amount of $175,000 has been approved.
 Clause 41 and 17 Assets/Income Level Adjustment Exemption Warrant.
The Board is awaiting a response from the Town Council with the edited article language.
POSTPONED TOPICS
===PAGE 3===
 BOA Policies.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
 Upcoming Meetings: April 2, 2025, April 16, 2025.
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
There were no comments from the public.
 Board
John Rabbitt created a letter regarding chapter liens. This discussion will continue once 
this topic has been added to the agenda.
ADJOURN
 There was a motion to adjourn the open meeting and enter Executive Session, not to
return to Open Session after exiting Executive Session by Brian Laffond, seconded 
by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
The meeting closed at 8:12 PM.