===PAGE 1===
 Lunenburg  Trust  Fund  Commission 
 Bilotta  Meeting  Room/PACC 
 Lunenburg  Town  Hall 
 March  26,  2026 
 The  meeting  was  called  to  order  at  5:01  pm  by  Chairman  Bowen.  Present  were  Mr 
 Howard  and  Chairman  Bowen.  Members  recited  the  Pledge  of  Allegiance.  Chairman 
 Bowen  proceeded  to  read  the  posted  Agenda  and  open  meeting  law  provisions. 
 Public  comment.  Chairman  Bowen  advised  the  public  that  it  was  the  last  day  to  get 
 papers  in  for  the  ballot  and  encouraged  participation,  in  his  opinion  we  have  a  very  low 
 rate  for  the  number  of  residents.  The  Chairman  admonished  the  public  for  showing  up 
 just  to  vote  on  one  issue.  This  year  we  have  the  override  being  voted  on.  Chairman 
 Bowen  advocated  increasing  the  rate  by  $1.66/1,000  increase  which  he  felt  was 
 necessary,  now  it  is  $1.89/1,000  due  to  inaction.  Chairman  Bowen  stated  his  position 
 on  the  override  and  is  voting  no. 
 Chairman  Bowen  made  a  request  that  people  should  consider  making  a  Trust  as  part  of 
 their  estate  planning,  and  he  promised  to  ensure  their  legacy  is  preserved  as  long  as  he 
 is  on  the  Trust  Fund  Commission. 
 Chairman  Bowen  reminded  the  public  that  our  regular  meetings  are  scheduled  to  be 
 held  the  2nd  and  4th  Thursday  of  the  month. 
 There  are  no  Treasurer  or  Finance  Director  reports. 
 New  Business 
 Chairman  Bowen  brought  up  his  prior  meeting  with  School  Committee  Chair  and  School 
 Superintendent  Fortuna  about  the  scholarships  held  and  their  use  of  the  Town’s  EIN 
 number  and  has  not  received  the  information  requested  in  October  2025. 
 Notice  of  Breach  Letter  drafted 
 Chairman  Bowen  then  discussed  a  Breach  Letter  that  he  prepared.  This  notice  of 
 breach  letter  will  be  presented  to  the  Town  Manager  and  Select  Board  for  the  Town's  failure 
 to  meet  their  legal  obligation  that  triggers  speciﬁc  rights,  duties,  or  consequences  for  the 
 commission.  Chairman  Bowen  then  shared  the  Submission  Packet  for  the  Town  of 
 Lunenburg  over  Zoom  and  read  the  document. 
===PAGE 2===
 This  goes  to  the  select  board  and  to  the  town  manager.  The  date  of  this  was  March 
 23rd,  2026,  which  is  the  date  Chairman  Bowen  put  it  together.  This  formal  notice  of 
 fiduciary  breach  and  a  required  referral  to  the  attorney  general,  division  of  public 
 charities.  This  is  regarding  longstanding  municipal  failure  to  administer,  distribute,  and 
 support  legally.  The  purpose  of  this  notice  is  issued  pursuant  to  the  fiduciary  obligations 
 imposed  by  Mass  General  Laws  chapter  203E  which  is  the  Massachusetts  Uniform 
 Trust  Code,  Massachusetts  General  Law  203C,  the  Massachusetts  Prudent  Investor 
 Act,  and  Mass  General  Laws  Chapter  41section  45,  which  is  the  Board  of  Trust  Funds 
 Commission  statute.  Our  charter  reflects  the  same  language. 
 Also  inclusive  is  the  case  law  establishing  municipal  liability  for  charitable  trust 
 management  and  is  intended  to  formally  notify  the  town  of  Lunberg  that  is  presently  in 
 breach  of  its  legal  obligations  regarding  the  administration,  management  and 
 distribution  of  multiple  charitable  trust  funds  accepted  by  the  town.  These  breaches 
 have  persisted  for  more  than  50  years,  resulting  in  improper  withholding  of  charitable 
 trust  distributions,  failure  to  modernize  obsolete  donor  purposes  through  cy  pres,  and 
 failure  to  provide  administrative  support  necessary  for  the  board,  this  board,  to  legally 
 execute  its  duties. 
 Chairman  Bowen  provided  evidence  on  why  the  Town  should  be  responsible  for  the  monies 
 necessary  to  ‘modernize’  the  original  donor  declarations.  Legally,  the  town  has  a  ﬁduciary 
 responsibility  to  make  sure  that  this  is  managed  and  maintained.  The  money  does  not  come 
 out  of  the  uh  value  of  the  fund. 
 Feedback  received  is  that  the  cost  exceeds  the  value.  And  unfortunately,  the  answers 
 that  I've  been  getting  have  been,  "Oh,  well,  the  fund,  the  amount  of  money  that  would  be 
 involved  to  be  able  to  accomplish  the  investigation,  everything  else  will  exceed  the  fund 
 balance."  Well,  that's 
 too  bad  because  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court  in  Massachusetts  told  you  you  have  to.  This 
 money  goes  to  beneﬁt  people  and  it  hasn't  operated  properly  in  over  50  years. 
 There  was  a  discussion  on  the  American  Legion  Post  283  eligibility  and  the  complexities 
 involved  and  interpretation  thereof. 
 Chairman  Bowen  reminded  the  public  that  as  Trustees  we  are  personally  culpable  and 
 liable,  when  you  misallocate  funds  like  what  was  done  in  2017  when  a  loan  was  given  out 
 and  never  recovered. 
 Chairman  Bowen  described  his  efforts  to  locate  paperwork  on  the  Susan  Howard  Poor 
 Fund,  no  declaration  can  be  located  and  the  funds  cannot  be  located.  This  is  a  serious 
===PAGE 3===
 breach.  It's  missing  principal,  earnings,  documentation,  and  the  law  says  that  the  attorney 
 general  must  be  notiﬁed  immediately. 
 The  notification  to  the  Attorney  General's  office  was  read. 
 Chairman  Bowen  made  a  motion  to  accept  the  Letter  to  the  Attorney  General’s  office  as 
 written  with  regard  to  the  Towns.  The  motion  was  seconded  by  Mr  Howard.  The  motion 
 was  passed  unanimously  with  Mr  Howard  voting  ‘Aye’  and  Chairman  Bowen  voting 
 ‘Aye’. 
 Chairman  Bowen  then  made  a  motion  to  submit  the  information  packet  to  be  submitted 
 to  the  Attorney  General,  the  Town  Manager  and  the  Select  Board,  to  be  submitted 
 forthwith  to  start  the  tolling  time  for  the  30  days  response  window.  The  motion  was 
 seconded  by  Mr  Howard.  The  motion  passed  unanimously  with  Mr  Howard  voting  ‘aye’ 
 and  Chairman  Bowen  voting  ‘aye’. 
 Chairman  Bowen  put  forth  a  motion  to  accept  the  signature  page  as  written,  Mr  Howard 
 seconded  the  motion.  The  members  signed  a  signature  page  for  the  information  packet 
 to  be  sent  to  the  Town. 
 Chairman  Bowen  created  a  blank  signature  form.  Chairman  Bowen  made  a  motion  to 
 approve  the  standard  blank  signature  form.  Motion  passes  unanimously  with  Mr 
 Howard  voting  ‘aye’  and  Chairman  Bowen  voting  ‘aye’. 
 Chairman  Bowen  read  some  communication  with  and  from  the  Division  of  Local 
 Services,  the  advice  was  to  contact  the  Attorney  General’s  office. 
 Chairman  Bowen  asked  for  a  motion  to  align  the  American  Legion  283  and  American 
 Legion  Poor  fund  eligibility  requirement  to  align  with  the  American  Legion  constitution 
 within  their  written  operating  policy  Motion  seconded  by  Mr  Howard.  The  vote  was 
 unanimous  with  Mr  Howard  voting  ‘aye’  and  Chairman  Bowen  voting  ‘aye’. 
 There  were  no  beneficiary  comments,  no  comments  from  the  public. 
 The  next  meeting  is  scheduled  for  April  9,2026. 
 There  was  a  motion  to  adjourn  the  meeting  at  6:32pm  by  Mr  Howard,  the  motion  was 
 seconded  by  Chairman  Bowen.  The  vote  was  unanimous  with  Mr  Howard  voting  ‘aye’ 
 and  Chairman  Bowen  voting  ‘aye’. 