===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG SCHOOL COMMITTEE OVERRIDE STATEMENT
There is a Proposition 2 ½ override proposal on the Warrant for consideration at Town
Meeting on May 4 and for the town wide election on May 18. The School Committee
voted unanimously to propose this override. It is also supported by the Select Board and
Finance Committee. This document explains ESSER (Covid) funds, increased costs, the
override amount and what the override would fund.
Budget Planning with ESSER Funds
When Covid hit, federal ESSER funds for local schools were approved to mitigate the
learning loss and mental health difficulties which impacted our students. These funds
were spent very effectively to support academic and social/emotional support positions,
building-related/technology costs, and Covid related costs. Plans were put in place for
those costs when the ESSER funds expired. Some expenditures would be absorbed by
other funding sources, some would be incorporated into existing budget lines, but the
majority would be used and then ended. These funds did as they were supposed to...they
helped our students recover from the pandemic. Because of careful planning, the School
Committee was prepared to handle the expiration of these ESSER Funds in the
2024-2025 budget.
Increase Costs
Unfortunately, a series of additional cost increases have resulted in a budget shortfall that
was significantly larger than anticipated for the 24-25 school year. These include
healthcare costs, utilities, transportation, building maintenance, out-of-district special
education tuitions, and unfunded state mandates such as an E911 phone system upgrade.
In total, these cost increases were projected to nearly double the impact of the expiring
ESSER funding.
Override Amount
Initially the town indicated that our budget would be no more than 2.94%. This would
result in catastrophic cuts to the district, including 27.1 positions. In the end, after
working with the Town Manager, the School Committee obtained funding for a "needs
based" budget of 4.47% with ARPA funds being used to fund one time expenditures and
some Chromebooks. Despite that, the 4.47% budget includes cutting 19 full time
positions and 7 part time positions. It would not address our needs for student
achievement, and seriously risks the positive momentum we have established. In order to
make up the gap between the 4.47% budget and what the budget would be excluding the
Covid Funds, the School Committee proposed an override amount of $948,136.
===PAGE 2===
What the Override Funds
The override provides level services to our children, excluding the ESSER funds. It does
not address broader town needs and doesn't address school needs beyond the FY25
budget. We would retain 10 of the full time positions eliminated in the 4.47% budget and
all of the part time positions. Further, without the override, expense lines would be
drastically cut, affecting classroom supplies, equipment and a myriad of educational
instructional tools.
Cuts without Override
Humanities Teacher LHS
Intervention Teacher LHS
Classroom Teacher LMS
Counselor LMS
Classroom Teacher THES
Wilson Reading Teacher THES
PE Teacher PS/THES
Social Worker PS
Instructional Coach Districtwide
Math Teacher LHS
Science Teacher LHS
Counselor LHS/LMS
Paraprofessional (3) LHS
Secretary (Athletics) LHS *
Secretary/Clerk THES*
Special Education Teacher THES
Classroom Teacher PS
Secretary/Clerk PS*
Paraprofessional PS
Maintenance Districtwide
Student Summer Custodians Districtwide*
Title I Coordinator Districtwide*
Expense lines including supplies, instructional tools etc
Cuts with Override
Humanities Teacher LHS
Intervention Teacher LHS
Classroom Teacher LMS
Counselor LMS
Classroom Teacher THES
Wilson Reading Teacher THES
PE Teacher PS/THES
Social Worker PS
Instructional Coach Districtwide
*Denotes part-time positions
Town Meeting Saturday, May 4th at 9 AM at LMHS
Town Election Saturday, May 18th 7:00 AM-5:00 PM at the TC Passios Building
