===PAGE 1===
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 617.556.0007  |  1.800.548.3522  |  www.k-plaw.com  |  ©2023 KP Law, P.C. 
FY 24 State Budget Change to Standards for  
Investment of Trust Funds in Municipalities 
September 11, 2023 
The FY 24 state budget, Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2023, includes a change to the standards for investment of trust 
funds in municipalities.  Section 26 amends G.L. c. 44, §54, to insert a local acceptance provision that allows 
investment in accordance with the so-called “Prudent Investment Rule” (G.L. c. 203C), which essentially allows for 
a broader range of investments, some of which may be “riskier” than what would otherwise be allowed for 
investments in savings banks.  The revised version of G.L. c. 44, §54 provides as follows (with the new text 
italicized): 
  
Section 54.  (a) Trust funds, including cemetery perpetual care funds, unless otherwise provided 
or directed by the donor of the funds, shall be deposited in: a trust company, co-operative bank 
or savings bank, if the trust company or bank is organized or exists under the laws of the 
commonwealth or any other state or may transact business in the commonwealth and has its 
main office or a branch office in the commonwealth; a national bank, federal savings bank or 
federal savings and loan association, if the bank or association may transact business and has its 
main office or a branch office in the commonwealth; provided, however, that a state-chartered 
or federally-chartered bank shall be insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or its 
successor or invested by cities and towns in participation units in a combined investment fund 
under section 38A of chapter 29 or in bonds or notes which are legal investments for savings 
banks. Cities and towns having such funds in the custody of the treasurer in an aggregate 
amount in excess of $250,000 may also invest such funds in securities, other than mortgages or 
collateral loans, which are legal for the investment of funds of savings banks under the laws of 
the commonwealth; provided, that not more than 15 per cent of any such trust funds shall be 
invested in bank stocks and insurance company stocks, nor shall more than 1 1/2 per cent of 
such funds be invested in the stock of any 1 bank or insurance company. 
 
(b)(1)  A city, town or district that accepts this subsection in the manner provided in section 4 of 
chapter 4 may manage trust funds held in the custody of the treasurer of the city, town or 
district as a combined investment pool and may invest said funds in accordance with chapter 
203C and not in accordance with subsection (a). If any provision of this subsection conflicts with 
the terms of a bequest, trust or other instrument that expresses the clear intent of the donor, 
then such funds may be managed and invested only in accordance with the terms of such 
bequest, trust or other instrument. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 617.556.0007  |  1.800.548.3522  |  www.k-plaw.com  |  ©2023 KP Law, P.C. 
(2)  Paragraph (1) shall only apply to trust funds and shall not apply to any other money held or 
controlled by a city, town or district or to any money held or controlled by any other municipal 
authority, commission or other such entity or fund which is authorized to invest its funds 
pursuant to this section. 
 
(c)  Municipal trust funds subject to this section invested in a chartered, insured financial 
institution shall only be deposited in accordance with subsection (a). 
 
(d)  This section shall not apply to the City of Boston. 
  
Note that since Chapter 28 of the Acts of 2023 included an emergency preamble, it took effect immediately, 
unless as otherwise specified.  Section 115 of said Chapter 28 states that the Act took effect as of July 1, 2023.   
  
Therefore, if towns want to include this local acceptance provision on their upcoming fall or special town meeting 
warrants, the article can take a form similar to the following: 
  
To see if the Town will vote to accept the provisions of G.L. c.44, §54(b) to allow Town trust 
funds to be invested in accordance with G.L. c.203C, the so-called “Prudent Investment Rule”, or 
take any other action relative thereto. 
 
For further information, please contact your KP Law attorney at 617.556.0007 or contact Attorney Lauren 
Goldberg at lgoldberg@k-plaw.com or Attorney Mark Reich at mreich@k-plaw.com  
  
Disclaimer: This information is provided as a service by KP Law, P.C. This information is general in nature and does not, and is not intended to, constitute 
legal advice. Neither the provision nor receipt of this information creates an attorney-client relationship with KP Law, P.C.  Whether to take any action based 
upon the information contained herein should be determined only after consultation with legal counsel.    
                   