===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Police Department 
 
Policy Number: 
1.40 
Subject:  
School Resource Officer Program 
 
Issue Date: 
9/9/2021 
Revision Date(s): 
2/3/2022 
Effective Date:  
9/16/2021 
 
Massachusetts Police Accreditation 
Standards Referenced: 
44.2.4 
Issuing Authority: 
 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel 
 
 
Page 1 of 9 
 
I. PURPOSE 
 
The purpose of this directive is to provide guidelines regarding the School Resource Officer’s 
(SRO) role and responsibilities.  The SRO program at the Lunenburg Public Schools is designed 
to promote school safety; help maintain a positive school climate for all students, families, and 
staff; enhance cultural understanding between students and law enforcement; promote school 
participation and completion by students; facilitate appropriate information-sharing; and create 
collaborative relationships to best serve the school community. 
 
II. POLICY 
 
It is the policy of the Lunenburg Police Department to maintain an SRO program in the 
Lunenburg Public Schools.  The Department in conjunction with the Lunenburg Public School 
District will also maintain a Memorandum of Understanding in accordance with G.L. c. 71 § 
37P.  [44.2.4]    
 
III. SRO SELECTION PROCESS 
 
The Department recognizes that the selection of the SRO is a critical aspect of the Program and 
that it is important for the Department, the District, and the school community to have a positive 
perception of and relationship with the SRO. 
 
In accordance with state law, the Chief shall assign an officer whom the Chief believes would 
foster an optimal learning environment to the educational community.  The Chief shall give 
preference to officers who demonstrate the requisite personality, and character to work in a 
school environment with children and educators.  The SRO will receive specialized training in 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 9 
 
child and adolescent cognitive development, de-escalation techniques, and alternatives to arrest 
and diversion strategies. The Chief shall work collaboratively with the Superintendent in 
identifying officers who meet these criteria and in selecting the officer who is ultimately 
assigned as the SRO. 
 
The Chief shall consider the following additional factors in the selection of the SRO: 
 
A. Proven experience working effectively with youth; 
B. Demonstrated ability to work successfully with a population that has a similar racial and ethnic 
makeup and language background as those prevalent in the student body, as well as with 
persons who have physical and mental disabilities; 
C. Demonstrated commitment to making students and school community members of all 
backgrounds feel welcomed and respected; 
D. Demonstrated commitment to de-escalation, diversion, and/or restorative justice, and an 
understanding of crime prevention, problem-solving, and community policing in a school 
setting; 
E. Knowledge of school-based legal issues (e.g., confidentiality, consent), and demonstrated 
commitment to protecting students’ legal and civil rights; 
F. Knowledge of school safety planning and technology; 
G. Demonstrated commitment and ability to engage in outreach to the community; 
H. Knowledge of school and community resources; 
I. A record of good judgment and applied discretion, including an absence of validated 
complaints and lawsuits; and 
J. Public speaking and teaching skills. 
 
In endeavoring to assign an SRO who is compatible with the school community, the Chief shall 
receive and consider input gathered by the Superintendent from the school principal(s) and 
representative groups of teachers, parents, and students, in addition to the Superintendent. In 
accordance with state law, the Chief shall not assign an SRO based solely on seniority. 
 
The Chief shall take into account actual or apparent conflicts of interest, including whether an 
officer is related to a current student at the school to which the officer may be assigned as an 
SRO. As part of the application process, officers who are candidates for an SRO position shall be 
required to notify the Chief about any relationships with current students or staff members or 
students or staff members who are expected to join the school community (e.g., children who are 
expected to attend the school in the coming years). Any SRO who has a familial or other 
relationship with a student or staff member that might constitute an actual or apparent conflict of 
interest shall be required to notify his or her appointing authority at the earliest opportunity. The 
Police Department shall determine the appropriate course of action, including whether to assign 
another officer to respond to a particular situation, and will advise the SRO and the District 
accordingly. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to limit the ability of the SRO to respond 
to emergency situations in District schools. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 9 
 
IV. SRO UNIFORM 
 
The SRO will wear a regulation patrol uniform, carry all the same equipment they would have on 
any other law enforcement assignment, including but not limited to full duty belt, and drive a 
fully equipped patrol vehicle while on school premises.  More casual attire (e.g., soft uniform or 
plain clothes) may be worn, with the permission of the SRO’s supervisor when the SRO is 
participating in school activities that make wearing a uniform impractical. 
  
V. BODY WORN CAMERA (BWC) 
 
The SRO will be issued a BWC in accordance with Department Policy, #1.35 Body Worn 
Cameras.  The SRO will activate the BWC in accordance with Section II, subsection A-J, of the 
policy, and as described or modified below.  The BWC shall be conspicuously placed on the 
SRO’s uniform.  All BWC recordings are exclusively owned and maintained by the Lunenburg 
Police Department.  All BWC recordings are subject to Public Records Law, and the obligations 
and restriction regarding access, use and retention outlined in Department Policy #1.35.  
 
A. Activation:    
 
While in a District Building or on District grounds, the SRO shall only activate their BWC in 
case of suspected criminal activity or when assisting school personnel with matters that may 
result in disorderly or otherwise disruptive behavior in the school environment.  This 
includes but not limited to the following situations:  
 
1. Any violent interaction(s) with or between student(s) or staff. 
2. When an intruder enters into a District Building or District grounds. 
3. When in engaged in a criminal investigation in accordance with Department policy. 
4. A call for help or any disturbance that requires immediate police intervention.  
5. Any Use of Force that the SRO applies.   
 
B. Exceptions:   
 
SROs are not required to record normal casual conversations/encounters with citizens or 
members of the school community that do not correspond with the above-noted circumstances.  
SROs will not activate their BWC when present during meetings between students and school 
personnel that are of an administrative nature and do not involve suspected criminal activity or 
the potential for disruptive behavior.  
 
C. Recording In Sensitive Areas: 
 
When recording in areas where there may be a reasonable expectation of privacy, the SRO 
should be mindful of their location as BWC recording may be considered insensitive, 
inappropriate, or prohibited by privacy considerations. Such locations may include guidance 
office(s), locker rooms, and bathrooms i.e. Based on the circumstances encountered at such 
locations, the BWC may be turned off. 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 9 
 
D. Notice Of Recording: 
 
Officers are not required to notify citizens in areas where a citizen does not maintain a 
reasonable expectation of privacy but may do so at the beginning or during the officer’s 
interaction with the members of the school community. Officers may take into account 
tactical considerations as to, if, or when, to notify a citizen of the recording. When 
notification is practical, officers may notify civilians that they are being recorded.  
 
E. Deactivation:   
 
The SRO has the ability to de-activate the BWC in accordance with Department Policy.  The 
SRO may also de-activate the BWC while investigating allegations that involves sexual 
abuse, or may be sensitive in nature.   
 
VI. SUPERVISION 
 
The SRO shall be a member of the Department and report directly to the Chief of Police, or 
his/her designee.  To ensure clear and consistent lines of communication, the SRO shall meet at 
least monthly with the principal, or any other school officials as needed.  The SRO shall ensure 
that the principal remains aware of material interactions and information involving the SRO’s 
work, including, but not limited to, arrests of students while on school property.  Searches 
involving students’ persons or property, while on school district grounds.   
 
VII. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SRO INVOLVING STUDENT 
MISBEHAVOIR  
 
The SRO plays important and distinct role in responding to student misbehavior to ensure school 
safety and promote a positive and supportive learning environment for all students. 
 
Under state law, the SRO shall not serve as a school disciplinarian, as an enforcer of school 
regulations, or in place of school-based mental health providers, and the SRO shall not use police 
powers to address traditional school discipline issues, including non-violent disruptive behavior.  
 
The principal or his or her designee shall be responsible for student code of conduct violations 
and routine disciplinary violations. The SRO shall be responsible for investigating and 
responding to criminal misconduct.  Many acts of student misbehavior, that may contain all the 
necessary elements of a criminal offense, are best handled through the school’s disciplinary 
process which will be decided in collaboration between the SRO and the Principal. The SRO 
shall read and understand the student code of conduct for both the District and each school.   
 
The principal (or his or her designee) and the SRO shall use their reasoned professional 
judgment and discretion to determine whether SRO involvement is appropriate for addressing 
student misbehavior. In such instances, the guiding principle is whether misbehavior rises to the 
level of criminal conduct that poses (1) real and substantial harm or threat of harm to the 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 9 
 
physical or psychological well-being of other students, school personnel, or members of the 
community or (2) real and substantial harm or threat of harm to the property of the school.  
 
In instances of student misbehavior that do not require a law enforcement response, the principal 
or his or her designee shall determine the appropriate disciplinary response. The principal or his 
or her designee should prioritize school- or community-based accountability programs and 
services, such as peer mediation, restorative justice, and mental health resources, whenever 
possible. 
  
For student misbehavior that requires immediate intervention to maintain safety (whether or not 
the misbehavior involves criminal conduct), the SRO may act to deescalate the immediate 
situation and to protect the physical safety of members of the school community. To this end, 
school personnel may request the presence of the SRO when they have a reasonable fear for their 
safety or the safety of students or other personnel. 
 
VIII. ARRESTS AND INVESTIGATIONS 
 
A student shall only be arrested on school property or at a school-related event as a last resort or 
when a warrant requires such an arrest. The principal or his or her designee shall be consulted 
prior to an arrest whenever practicable, and the student’s parent or guardian shall be notified as 
soon as practicable after an arrest.  
 
Any SRO taking a student into custody on school grounds shall: 
 
A. Follow all applicable department policies for arrest, detainee custody, use of force, citation, 
and court procedure and transportation; 
B. Afford students’ their legal rights, including the process for searching and questioning students 
and circumstances requiring notification to and presence of parents and administrators where 
the student is under the age of 18 years; 
 
In the event of an investigation by the SRO that leads to custodial questioning of a juvenile 
student, the SRO shall notify the student’s parent or guardian in advance and offer them the 
opportunity to be present during the interview. 
 
In accordance with state law, the SRO shall not take enforcement action against students for 
Disturbing a School Assembly (G.L. c. 272, § 40) or for Disorderly Conduct or Disturbing the 
Peace (G.L. c. 272, § 53) within school buildings, on school grounds, or in the course of school-
related events. 
 
IX. INFORMATION SHARING  
 
There is a benefit of appropriate information sharing for improving the health and safety of 
students but there is also the importance of limits on the sharing of certain types of student 
information by school personnel. There is a distinction between student information shared for 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 9 
 
law enforcement purposes and student information shared to support students and connect them 
with necessary mental health, community-based, and related services. 
 
A. Points of Contact for Sharing Student Information  
 
In order to facilitate prompt and clear communications, the principal (or his or her designee) 
and the SRO are the primary points of contact for sharing student information in accordance 
with this policy.  In some instances, other school officials or Police Department employees 
may serve as key points of contact for sharing information.  Such Police Department 
employees are considered a part of the District’s “Law Enforcement Unit” as defined in the 
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g). 
 
B. Compliance with FERPA and Other Confidentiality Requirements 
 
At all times, school officials must comply with FERPA. This federal statute permits 
disclosures of personally identifiable information about students contained in educational 
records (“Student PII”), without consent, only under specific circumstances. 
 
When the District “has outsourced institutional services or functions” to the SRO consistent 
with 34 C.F.R. § 99.31(a)(1)(i)(B) of FERPA, the SRO qualifies as a “school official” who 
can access, without consent, Student PII contained in education records about which the SRO 
has a “legitimate educational interest.”  
 
Consistent with 34 C.F.R. §§ 99.31(10) and 99.36 of FERPA, the SRO (or other Police 
Department employee) may gain access, without consent, to Student PII contained in 
education records “in connection with an emergency if knowledge of the [Student PII] is 
necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals.” 
 
These are the only circumstances in which an SRO may gain access, without consent, to 
education records containing student PII (such as IEPs, disciplinary documentation created 
by a school, or work samples). 
 
FERPA does not apply to communications or conversations about what school staff have 
observed or to information derived from sources other than education records.  
 
In addition to FERPA, the SRO will comply with all other state and federal laws and 
regulations regarding confidentiality, including the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and state student record regulations at 603 C.M.R. 
23.00.  
 
C. Information Disclosure Restriction 
 
The SRO and school department officials shall not disclose to a Law Enforcement Officer or 
Agency, including local, municipal, regional, county, state and federal law enforcement, 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 9 
 
through an official report or unofficial channels, including, but not limited to, test, phone, 
email, database, and in-person communication, or submit to the Department of State Police’s 
Commonwealth Fusion Center, the Boston Regional Intelligence Center or any other databse 
or system designed to track gang affiliation or involvement, an information relating to 
student or student’s family member from its databases and other record keeping systems 
including: 
 
1. Immigration Status; 
2. Citizenship; 
3. Neighborhood of residence; 
4. Religion; 
5. National Origin; 
6. Ethnicity; 
7. Suspected, alleged or confirmed gang affiliation, unless germane to a specific unlawful 
incident or to a specific prospect of unlawful activity the school is otherwise required to 
report. 
 
Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the sharing of information: (i) for the purposes of 
completing a report pursuant to section 51A of chapter 119; (ii) upon the specific, informed 
written consent of the eligible student, parent or guardian; (iii) to comply with a court order 
or lawfully issued subpoena; (iv) in connection with a health or safety emergency pursuant to 
the provisions of 603 C.M.R. 23.07(4)(e); or (v) for the purposes of filing a weapon report 
with the local chief of police pursuant to this section 
 
D. Information Sharing by the SRO 
 
Subject to applicable statutes and regulations governing confidentiality, the SRO shall inform 
the principal or his or her designee of any arrest of a student, the issuance of a criminal or 
delinquency complaint application against a student, or a student’s voluntary participation in 
any diversion or restorative justice program if: 
 
1. The activity involves criminal conduct that poses a (present or future) threat of harm to the 
physical or psychological well-being of the student, other students or school personnel, or 
to school property; 
2. The making of such a report would facilitate supportive intervention by school personnel 
on behalf of the student (e.g., because of the Police Department’s involvement with a 
student’s family, the student may need or benefit from supportive services in school); or 
3. The activity involves actual or possible truancy. 
 
The SRO shall provide such information whether the activity takes place in or out of school, 
consistent with the requirements of G.L. c. 12, § 32 (Community Based Justice information-
sharing programs) and G.L. c. 71, § 37H (setting forth potential disciplinary consequences 
for violations of criminal law). 
 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 9 
 
When the SRO observes or learns of student misconduct in school for which a law 
enforcement response is appropriate, the SRO shall convey to the principal or his or her 
designee as soon as reasonably possible the fact of that misconduct and the nature of the 
intended law enforcement response, and when the SRO observes or learns of student 
misconduct that does not merit a law enforcement response, but that appears to violate school 
rules, the SRO shall report the misconduct whenever such reporting would be required for 
school personnel. 
 
X. DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING 
 
In accordance with state law, the SRO and school administrators shall work together to ensure 
the proper collection and reporting of data on school-based arrests, citations, and court referrals 
of students, consistent with regulations promulgated by the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education. 
 
XI. SRO TRAINING 
 
The SRO shall initially attend a Massachusetts Municipal Police Training Committee (MPTC) 
basic School Resource Officer certification course or equivalent and accepted training course.   
 
In accordance with state law, the SRO shall receive ongoing professional development in: 
 
A. Child and adolescent development;  
B. Conflict resolution; and  
C. Diversion strategies. 
D. Additional areas for continuing professional development may include, but are not limited to: 
 
1. Restorative practices. 
2. Implicit bias and disproportionality in school-based arrests based on race and disability. 
3. Cultural competency in religious practices, clothing preferences, identity, and other areas. 
4. Mental health protocols and trauma-informed care. 
5. De-escalation skills and positive behavior interventions and supports. 
6. Training in proper policies, procedures, and techniques for the use of restraint. 
7. Teen dating violence and healthy teen relationships. 
8. Understanding and protecting civil rights in schools. 
9. Special education law. 
10. Student privacy protections and laws governing the release of student information. 
11. School-specific approaches to topics like bullying prevention, cyber safety, emergency 
management and crisis response, threat assessment, and social-emotional learning. 
 
The SRO shall also receive certified basic SRO training on how to mentor and counsel students, 
work collaboratively with administrators and staff, adhere to ethical standards around 
interactions with students and others, manage time in a school environment, and comply with 
juvenile justice and privacy laws, to the extent that such training is available. 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 9 
 
The SRO shall attend a minimum of 16 hours of training per year.  
 
The SRO shall participate in any District and school-based emergency management planning. 
The SRO shall also participate in the work of any school threat assessment team to the extent any 
information sharing is consistent with obligations imposed by the Family Educational Rights and 
Privacy Act (“FERPA”) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g) (see further information in Section V).  