===PAGE 77===
77 
VETERANS’  SERVICES 
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has the most comprehensive system of assistance offered to Veterans, 
families, and surviving spouses in all of the United States.  Every city or town in Massachusetts, in accordance 
with chapter 115 of the Massachusetts General Laws, must have available to its citizens a Veterans’ Services 
Officer (VSO), either full- or part-time, as determined by the community population, in order to serve the 
needs of its Veterans.  Lunenburg has a part-time VSO at the Ritter Building at 960 Massachusetts Ave.  
Working with the Town census of 2021, shows Lunenburg in excess of 618 residents who claimed either 
military service or veteran status.  On a monthly basis, the veterans and widows of veterans in Lunenburg 
receive in excess of $328,330.74 in federal benefits (Veterans Administration), which they mostly put back 
into the community by paying their taxes and through discretionary spending.  
Veterans, families, or widows who qualify can be provided monthly financial assistance (reimbursements) for 
specific living expenses such as heating fuel, medical care, and pharmaceutical co-payments.  With the VSO’s 
approval, the Town of Lunenburg provides the financial assistance and is then reimbursed by the state’s 
department of Veterans’ Services (DVS).  It is the function of the Veterans’ Services Office to identify 
qualifying members of the community and assist with enrollment into the DVS program.  Additionally, certain 
Veterans and/or widows may also be eligible for federal benefits from the Veterans Administration (VA).  
Only Massachusetts offers both of these services to every community.   
During Fiscal Year 2022 (July 2021- June 2022), Lunenburg served an average of 10 recipients (Veterans, 
families, or widows) per month.  Lunenburg paid out $64,435.43 in benefits, or an average of $5,369.62 per 
recipient per month.  Lunenburg was reimbursed $48,326.57 by DVS, which is 75% of what was given as 
assistance, the maximum allowable share. 
Some examples of Veterans’ Service Office assistance services include: 
 Enrollment in chapter 115, State Veterans benefits 
 Assistance obtaining military service records or replacement medals/decorations 
 Tuition waivers at Massachusetts state colleges 
 Housing assistance, including Veterans Shelters and Veterans Homes 
 Payments of “Welcome Home” bonuses for deployed Veterans 
 Assistance obtaining certain Massachusetts automobile and motorcycle license plates 
 Employment assistance 
The Veterans’ Service Office also provides information, advice, and assistance to any citizen interested in 
learning about their qualifications for federal benefits, such as: 
 VA disability payments and property tax exemptions 
 Tax-exempt annuities for parents or spouses of those killed in Action or those who are declared 100% 
disabled from service-connected conditions. 
 VA pensions, Aid and Attendance assistance, and death benefits 
 VA medical care for both physical and mental needs 
 Vocational and Educational opportunities (the GI Bill) 
 VA Loans 
 Burial Assistance and Grave Markers (Veterans or Civilian cemeteries) 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
David Lauzon Jr. 
Interim VSO 
Office phone 978-582-4176 
 
===PAGE 78===
78 
===PAGE 79===
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROTECTION OF PERSONS & PROPERTY 
===PAGE 80===
80 
BOARD OF HEALTH 
The Board of Health Office is located in the Ritter Building on the corner of Mass. Ave and Lancaster Ave. Our office is 
on the upper level at the end of the hall on the right.  We can be reached at 978-345-4146, extension 430.  
The Board of Health, with the assistance of its Agent, the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health, continued its mission to 
maintain its focus on public health and safety issues during 2022, reviewing Title V Inspection Reports, building 
permits, septic and well permits, nuisance investigations, housing inspections, complaints and general public health 
related issues as well as resident concerns.    
In addition, our local Board continued to be tasked with responding to the emerging COVID-19 pandemic.  The Board of 
Health assisted residents and businesses in understanding ever-changing guidance and compliance with those orders.  We 
continued to conducted compliance checks and responded to complaints.  As the pandemic continued, our office assisted 
residents and businesses in understanding testing, quarantine and necessary compliance.  Through Nashoba Associated 
Boards of Health, regional Covid Vaccine Clinics were held.  Wash hands frequently, wear a mask, and keep six feet rule. 
Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness planning is ongoing.  Meetings continue between our agents, other 
Town Departments and regional entities to develop a plan for not only Lunenburg but with our partner towns in our 
region.   
This year, we processed applications for Septic Permit Lot Tests, permits for new construction, new wells, repairs or 
upgrades to septic systems, well permits and food service permits.  The Board continues its vigilance with regard to 
septic systems, wells, food service inspections, housing and nuisance complaints and its general mandate to protect the 
environment and groundwater of the Commonwealth.   
The Board of Health provides numerous other services in cooperation with our Health Agents, the Nashoba Associated 
Boards of Health. In addition to our environmental services, nursing services is provided to our resident.  This year, 
clinics provided our residents with inoculations for Flu as well as Senior well adult clinics.  
The Town of Lunenburg participates in the Central Mass. Mosquito Control Project.  Mosquito Control monitors the 
mosquito population in Lunenburg and advises of any potential diseases such as EEE and West Nile Virus and sprays 
frequently to control the population during the warmer times of the year.  Residents who want to have their property 
sprayed can do so by emailing to:  cmmcp@cmmcp.org, calling (508) 393-3055, completing a request on their webpage 
at:  http://www.cmmcp.org , or calling the Board of Health office.  This service is free of charge to residents. 
With our Nashoba Nursing and Hospice partners we provide in home visits to ill residents recovering from illness and 
Hospice care and counseling to those in need of this service.  
Please contact our office in the Ritter Building for more information.     
Please remember that our Board Members volunteer their time and efforts on behalf of you, the Citizens of Lunenburg. 
If you have something that you think we can help you with, we are at your service. Contact the Board office at 582 -4146 
ext. 430.    
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health continues to serve the Lunenburg Board of Health in meeting the challenges of 
environmental and public health needs in your community. As the pandemic specific requirements and guidance were eased, 
and the State of Emergency ended in June, we have provided assistance to your Board’s return to pre-pandemic public health 
activities. 
 The agency staff informed, educated and stayed current with the COVID-19 information from the Department of Public 
Health to help residents in your community navigate the changes.  
 Our public health nursing staff were still providing contact tracing and outreach in your communities (including regional 
COVID-19 vaccination clinics), while reaching out to Councils on Aging to establish well adult clinics and conduct 
regular fall flu clinics. 
 Our VNA continued their home health activities in your community. 
 As a recipient of a Public Health Excellence Grant, we have brough on staff to increase our presence in food service 
establishments and provide improved communication, and public health education to the Nashoba District.. 
We look forward to continuing our work with Lunenbur g' s Board of Health to meet the public health, environmental and 
nursing needs of your community.  
Environmental Health Department- The Nashoba Sanitarian serving your community is always available at our Ayer 
office and has regular hours in the Town Hall to serve residents and work with your Town Hall staff. 
===PAGE 81===
81 
Food Service Licensing and Inspections     
  39 
This office licenses, inspects, responds to complaints and conducts follow up on concerns in licensed operations. Some of the 
inspections done this year were in response to COVID complaints. 
Recreational Permitting and Inspections     
  54 
This office licenses, inspects and responds to complaints regarding recreational camps for children, bathing, beaching and 
public and semi -pools.  We sample bathing beaches weekly, providing the results to community partners to ensure 
swimming only occurs at the public and semi-public beach which meet State regulations. 
Housing & Nuisance Investigation     
   17 
This office inspects dwelling units for compliance with the State Sanitary Code upon compliant and prior to occupancy.  We 
issue orders to affect corrective actions, re-inspect and initiate legal action if necessary. Similarly, complaints from residents 
concerning unsanitary conditions or pollution are investigated. 
Title 5 related work – On-site Sewage Disposal 
We received 50 applications for soil testing (testing necessary for the design of a sewage disposal systems) and 
witnessed 147 tests performed (perc tests and soil evaluation holes).    
We received 54 applications for sewage disposal systems and reviewed 91 plans for new and replacement systems. 
Our office prepared 58 sewage disposal system permits for the Board’s review and approval: 32 for new construction 
and 26 for the replacement of failed systems. 
We conducted 150 inspections during the construction of sewage disposal systems. 
We reviewed 78 Title 5 inspection reports and we were available to provide consultation to your residents on matter 
relating to sewage disposal systems. 
Private Well related services 
Private wells are regulated by local regulation and we issued 20 well permits for new and replacement private water supply 
wells.      
We review water quality and quantity reports and interpret the results for residents. 
Rabies Clinics – Animals Immunized        (Due to COVID-19, clinics were limited in 2022)   
     
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice 
Nashoba’s Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visit and provide skilled services to patients in their home under 
physician’s orders.  These services include assessment of physical, psychological, and nutritional needs. Skills include 
teaching/supervision of medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV therapy on a 24 -hour basis, catheter care, case 
management and referral to other services as needed. 
Nashoba’s Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities of daily living including bathing dressing, 
exercises and meal preparation. 
Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, and dietary therapeutic interventions through assessment, 
treatment and education.  Their integration of client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at attaining maximum functional 
dependence. 
Nursing Visits       
 670 
Home Health Aide Visits      61 
Rehabilitative Therapy Visits      643 
Community Health Nursing 
Nashoba’s Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health service to its member communities 
guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) 16 Standards of Public Nursing Practice.  
===PAGE 82===
82 
 Working with MDPH and other local boards of health to identify and manage clusters of disease/exposures in the 
District. 
 Contact tracing for our member communities and teaching about the processes of Isolation and Quarantine.  
Teaching risk reduction, infection control measures and disease management. 
 Serving as a resource for individuals and businesses interpreting the everchanging information on the disease and the 
State’s response to the pandemic. 
 Working with school nurses and childcare providers in the District to provide information, offer advice and support 
and assist with contact tracing in the schools and daycare centers as needed. 
 Collaboration with all municipal staff, including Councils on Aging, to address questions about COVID-19 (and 
other diseases), exposures and actions which may be necessary to address these exposures. 
Communicable Disease Number of Cases: 
 Babesiosis ............................................................................ 1 
 Campylobacteriosis ............................................................. 2 
 Group A Streptococcus ....................................................... 1 
 Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis ................................... 4 
 Influenza .............................................................................. 150 
 SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19)................................................. 976 
The Nashoba nursing staff provided monitoring and guidance to travelers and residents testing positive for TB infection 
(not contagious) 119 throughout the district this calendar year, and have also been managing 2 active TB cases in the 
District since Spring/Summer 2022 and continue to date.   The towns in the Nashoba District fall into a LOW RISK TB 
category (as defined by MDPH). 
In addition to the mandated disease surveillance and reporting, our staff serves as a resource to the community, 
addressing questions and concerns from the public on a variety of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice, 
chronic disease management, safe drug/sharps disposal etc.) in a variety of ways including:  
 Monthly well adult clinics have been & continue to be offered throughout the district. Nashoba nursing staff 
conducted 159 total clinics this year, including 10 clinics in Lunenburg. Clinics provide the opportunity for residents 
to meet with the nurse for blood pressure checks, blood sugar screening, general health counselling, resource 
information and referrals as needed. Districtwide flu clinics are held in the fall. 
 Nashoba conducted seasonal flu clinics in each community to make vaccinations available to everyone, including 
homebound residents.  We administered 2130 flu shots to community members, including 98 Lunenburg residents. 
 We conducted regionalized COVID-19 vaccine clinics the first quarter of the year until the public demand/interest in 
the vaccine waned. In an effort to increase vaccine accessibility, clinics were also held at local food pantries, 
shelters, churches, schools, businesses, etc. A total of 509 district community members were vaccinated for COVID-
19 in the 2022 calendar year. 
 The nurses are available for & have made home visits to make general assessments, assist with coordinating care and 
services, provide support/teaching and make referrals to other local community resources. 
 Nashoba has offered community outreach and educational programs covering topics such as disease prevention, 
chronic disease management, emergency preparedness, mental health awareness, and overall wellness. 
 Nashoba staff attend and regularly participate in collaborative meetings, trainings and conferences to keep current 
with the latest developments in local public health. 
 Nashoba staff facilitated several meetings with key stakeholder groups to promote partnership, encourage strong 
regional communication, and foster working relationships.  This has helped to identify common goals and guide 
future public health initiatives and outreach. 
===PAGE 83===
83 
Community Health- Communications and Public Health Education Summary 
The Public Health Educator/Communications Specialist (PHE/CS) role has evolved since its inception in Sept 2021 to 
best support the needs of the District . In the past year, the PHE/CS has been communicating timely and relevant public 
health information to towns and stakeholders, and providing educational opportunities across the District with a social 
determinants of health (SDOH) lens.  This work has included: 
 Developing educational programs and presentations both independently and collaboratively with the PH nursing 
team- Harm reduction, emergency preparedness, etc. 
 Providing education and advocacy related to treatment and de-stigmatization of substance use disorder 
 Maintaining up-to-date distribution lists, communicating within the district via channels such as quarterly 
newsletters, regular email updates, etc. pertaining to public health news, information and events such as flu and 
rabies clinics.  Exploring ways to diversify communication methods to reach as many community members as 
possible. 
 Building and maintaining relationships with stakeholders through meetings and attending community events to 
represent NABH 
 Serving as a resource for community members with public health related questions across a broad range of topics; 
developing a robust, in-depth Resources page for the website (which is currently being finalized) 
 Attending trainings with an emphasis on health equity and public health service regionalization.  MDPH has 
prioritized these areas because research has shown they have the biggest impact on health outcomes for the broadest 
range of people. 
 PHE/CS has utilized an SDOH lens to identify health inequities that most impact the NABH region to focus efforts 
and collaborate with community partners to lessen these gaps. 
 Developing educational and communications materials for district and individual towns by request including print, 
electronic, presentation, and TV/news media materials 
 Maintaining and improving upon NABH website to keep info relevant and accessible. Maintaining agency social 
media to reach more people in district with current, relevant and seasonal public health information. 
 Organizing events to facilitate the exchange of information such as a Spring Wellness Festival and first regional in     
formal local board of health gathering 
 
===PAGE 84===
84 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are dedicated to providing 
the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to the citizens of the town of Lunenburg. 
 
In 2022, your Fire Department responded to 1990 calls for service, broken down as follows:  
Fires, Alarms & Hazardous Conditions        385                Emergency Medical      1143 
Inspections                  446                 Other                             16 
This represents a 14% increase in emergency calls for service over 2021, mostly in Emergency Medical calls.  
The Department consists of 10 Career and 30 -35 On Call/Per Diem Firefighters and Emergency Medical 
Technicians, plus a full time Administrative Assistant/EMS Coordinator.  Three Firefighter/EMT or Paramedics are on 
duty 24/7 at the Station.  This coverage is provided by a combination of our Career Staff and Per Diem Firefighters.  
Staffing the Station with dual trained Fire/EMS personnel ensures that we are ready to respond to whatever emergency 
occurs.  As many calls require more personnel than are on duty, we continue to rely heavily on the dedication and 
commitment of our On Call Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians. 
After nearly five years of preparation, the Department is in the final stages of licensing to provide our own 
Paramedic Service.  Firefighter Olivia Hayes certified as a Paramedic in October 2022 and Firefighter Melissa Buchanan 
will be obtaining her certification in January 2023. This brings us to four Fulltime Firefighter/Paramedics with an 
additional eight On Call/per diem Firefighter/Paramedics.  In addition, Firefighter Jennie Smith will begin training as a 
Paramedic in January of 2023.  Paramedic training is in excess of 2000 hours and requires anywhere from 9 -18 months 
of college level classroom education, clinical time and field internships to obtain certification.  The Department 
continues to train our newly hired full time staff to this level and recruit licensed Paramedics to fill Career positions 
when possible.  We will begin providing Paramedic Level care to the community in January 2023.  
In 2022, the Fire Prevention Division conducted 446 Inspections.   This is in addition to multiple fire drills and 
public education initiatives.  By law, we are required to inspect Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detector installations 
when a home is sold.  We are also required to inspect all new oil burner and propane gas installations.  Any business 
holding a liquor license is also requires a yearly inspection for fire safety issues.  In addition, all new construction 
projects must have their plans reviewed for proper fire protection, as well as ongoing inspections during the construction 
process.  Other Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during 2022 include: 
 Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953 to assist with Fire Safety Education in 
both the Schools and with Senior Citizens.  This Grant provides funding for both materials and personnel to bring 
fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations.   
 Participation in the Senior Center ’s “Sand for Seniors” Program.  This program provides buckets of walkway sand 
for Senior Citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the winter months.  In partnership with this 
program, Captain James Ricci delivers the sand to the residents and when possible, inspects their homes for Smoke 
and Carbon Monoxide Detectors.  If the resident was lacking detectors, Capt. Ricci is able to install free detectors 
obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant.    
 It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent smoke detectors. 
 Firefighters Samuel Johnson and Timothy O ’Connell graduated from the Massachusetts Firefighting 
Academy’s Call/Volunteer Recruit Training Program in June of 2022.  This 240 -hour program trains new personnel in 
the basics of firefighting and hazardous materials response.  The program is a requirement for any new Firefighters with 
the Department.   
Eight Firefighters from Lunenburg continue to be members of the Fire District 8 Technical Rescue and Dive 
Teams.  These regional teams respond to high risk and unusual rescue situations, such as Confined Space, Rescue from 
Heights, Building and Trench Collapse, Swift/Floodwater and Underwater Search and Recovery.  In conjunction with 
these Teams, Lunenburg operates both a Water Rescue Unit and a Collapse/Trench Rescue Trailer.   
Apparatus replacement has reached a plateau for a few years, with two pumpers and the Ladder truck all under 
10 years old.  The Ambulances continue to see increased wear and tear as we see not only increased calls for service, but 
longer transport times to other hospitals and critical care facilities.  It should be noted that 30 years ago, we had four 
hospitals within a 10 -15 minute transport time. Today there are two.  In addition, many cardiac and trauma patients 
require definitive treatment in specialty facilities, often requiring transports to Worcester.  Given long delays in 
obtaining new units, a replacement for Rescue 1, our 2014 ambulance has been moved up two years and is being 
requested on the FY’24 Capital Plan.  
===PAGE 85===
85 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
The Turnout Gear Replacement program that was begun under the Capital Budget last year has been completed.  
All personnel now have state of the art protective clothing, with a serviceable spare set of equipment as well.  
Firefighting protective clothing must be cleaned after every fire to rid it of cancer causing materials that are often 
byproducts of today’s synthetic materials burning.  As washing and drying firefighting cloth can take from 24 -48 hours, 
having a spare set available allows all personnel to remain “in service” at all time. 
Replacement of our outdated Forest Fire protective clothing with a dual -purpose type of clothing that is suitable 
for both brush fires and motor vehicle/technical rescue situations is still underway.  This project is funded through a 
State Grant for Safety Equipment.  Though supply chain issues have slowed the process, we anticipate having the 
equipment by spring of 2023.  A State Firefighting Safety Grant was also received in 2022.  This will replace several 
hundred feet of fire hose and some outdated nozzles and adapters.  This grant is expected to be completed sometime in 
2023. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their outstanding 
commitment to the Town.  Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to impress me every day.  In 
addition, I would like to express my gratitude to the members of the Department who have helped make the Paramedic 
Program a reality.  From those who helped develop policies and those two helped procure equipment, to those members 
who endured the challenges of Paramedic training.  Your efforts have helped bring about a massive improvement in 
service to our residents.  My thanks also to the Town Manager for her unwavering support of this vital project. 
I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards and commissions for their continuing help.  The 
level of interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in the daily course of town business in invisible to many people, but it 
is critical to all operations.  Finally, my thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing support of 
public safety.  Such support allows us to continue providing the high level of service you have come to expect from us. 
 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department+*     
          
    Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief 
  
    
    Career Firefighters+     
  
A Shift   B Shift   C Shift 
          
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT   James Ricci, Captain/EMT   Christos Lekaditis, Lieutenant/AEMT 
Carl Gamberdella, FF/Paramedic   Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT*   Melissa Buchanan, FF/EMT 
Jenny Smith, FF/EMT   Austin Flagg, FF/Paramedic   Olivia Hayes, FF/Paramedic 
          
    Karen Weller, Administrative     
===PAGE 86===
86 
Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
      CHIEF                                 
Thomas L. Gammel   655 
Massachusetts Ave.  
 978-582-4151                                                                 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
  FAX: (978) 582-4159 
                                                          
      
      
       
    
      Values: 
 We are committed to ensuring that all of our actions reflect the utmost integrity, and honesty. 
 We are committed to respecting individual rights, human dignity, and the values of all members of the 
community and members of the Lunenburg Police Department. 
 We are a proactive and problem solving agency. 
 We strive to serve our citizens in a professional manner with compassion, respect, and empathy. 
 We are committed to providing the highest quality of police services to our community. 
 We recognize the value of our employees, and recognize they are our most valued resource. We will strive to 
provide our employees with the necessary resources, training, and career development to enhance their 
professionalism. 
Mission Statement:  
We, the members of the Lunenburg Police Department, strive to provide the highest quality of police services 
to our community members and visitors alike. We believe in Community Policing, and all of the benefits that 
are realized from this concept. We will strive to maintain the strong partnerships that have been developed 
with our community, and continuously look for ways improve that relationship. We will strive to deliver 
police services in a fair and impartial manner, consistent with all applicable laws, while respecting all 
individual rights. We will use innovative and modern ideas and techniques to solve crimes, apprehend 
criminal offenders, and help resolve quality of life issues. 

===PAGE 87===
87 
Department Personnel: 
Administration  
Chief Thomas L. Gammel  
Lt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau 
Public Safety Coordinator Amanda Moore  
Public Safety Desk Clerk Kennedy Jackson 
 
Patrol Bureau  
Day Shift 
Sgt. Joshua Tocci (K9-Jerry)  
Off. Jonathan Broc 
Off. Jack Wagner  
Off. Gage Russell  
Off. Kamerin Munroe 
 
Evening Shift 
Sgt. Sean Connery  
Off. Anthony Cappucci  
Off. Matthew Pingitore 
Off. Paul Theodoulou  
Night Shift 
Sgt. Sean W. Zrate  
Off. Jesse Reed  
Off. Deven O’Brien 
Off. George Tibbetts 
 
Split Shift 
Sgt. John Morreale  
Off. Jeffrey Hill 
 
Traffic Bureau 
Off. Jacob LaChance 
 
Investigative Bureau 
Detective Joshua Mathieu 
 
Community Policing Bureau 
SRO/Community Outreach: Off. Bradley McNamara (Comfort Dog, Hank) 
 
===PAGE 88===
88 
Reserve Police Officers 
     Off. Robert DaCosta 
Off. Benjamin Campbell 
Off. Paul Duquette 
Off. Joel Ortega 
Department Review: 
It is an honor to again provide the Lunenburg Police Department’s Annual report as the Chief of Police. 2022 continued 
to be a challenging year for the Police Department as the community came out of the grips of Covid–19. We have also 
faced the challenges associated with the economy, population growth, and increased traffic within the community. A 
nationwide trend of recruiting and retaining Police Officers continue to have an effect on our Department. Although 
faced with these challenges, the Department remains committed to being pro- active, and strives to make the Community 
safe for all. 
 
K9 Jerry will be retiring at the end of the fiscal year. Jerry has been with the Department since 2014, and has performed 
admirably throughout his career. Jerry will remain with Sgt. Tocci, who has agreed to keep him through his retirement 
years. We wish Jerry good health and a long retirement. Job well done Jerry. 
 
Off. Nicholas Marino accepted a position with the Acton Police Department. We thank Nick for his service, and wish 
him the best of luck with Acton PD. 
 
Reserve Officer/Desk Officer Lisa Melnicki has accepted a position in the private sector. We thank Lisa for her service, 
and wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors. 
 
Off. Jesse Reed was hired to the full times ranks. We are happy to welcome a veteran police officer from Berlin Police 
Department who will bring his experience and knowledge to the Department. 
 
Off. Deven O’Brien has returned to the Department as a full time police officer. Off. O’Brien started his career with our 
Department as a Reserve Officer in 2013 and in 2014 was appointed as a full time police officer. In 2018 Off. O’Brien 
accepted a position with the Marlborough Police Department. We were happy to welcome Off. O’Brien back to the 
Department, and continue his service where his Law Enforcement career began. 
 
Off. Paul Theodoulou was hired to the full time ranks after serving a short period time as a Reserve Officer with the 
Department. Off. Theodoulou is a veteran police officer from Fitchburg Police Department as well Townsend Police 
Department. Off. Theodoulou brings a wealth of experience and knowledge to our Department. We were fortunate to 
have landed Off. Theodoulou. 
 
Off. George “Trey” Tibbetts was elevated to a full time position after serving a short period of time as a Reserve Officer 
with the Department. Off. Tibbetts was added to the Department in accordance with the Department’s 10 year hiring 
plan. Trey completed his training in a relatively short period of time, and we are excited to watch him grow with the 
Department. 
 
As we became fully staffed we anticipated filling our vacant positions. The first and foremost was filling a vacant 
Sergeant’s position that would provide us much needed supervision for the Patrol Bureau. We also anticipated filling a 
vacant Detective’s position, as well as adding an additional School Resource/Community Outreach Officer. 
 
Sgt. John Morreale was promoted to fill the vacant Sergeant’s position. Sgt. Morreale has been with the Department 
since 2014 when he began his career as a Reserve Officer, and has worked up through the ranks as he has progressed in 
his career. Sgt. Morreale has been assigned as the Department’s Accreditation Manager as well as the split shift patrol 
supervisor. 
 
Det. Joshua Mathieu was elevated to the Detective position. Det. Mathieu started with the Department in 2011 and has 
risen through the ranks to his current position. Det. Mathieu brings a wealth of experience, knowledge and training to the 
position. Det. Mathieu is an excellent investigator, and will be a great addition to the Investigative Bureau. 
 
On October 26, 2022 the Department was certified through the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission 
(MPAC), which is recognized as a best practice organization. Through the tireless work of Sgt. Morreale, and the 
cooperation and collaboration with members of our Department we were able to complete the first phase of 
accreditation. The Department was recognized and received the MPAC award on October 26, 2022 at the Commission’s 
===PAGE 89===
89 
award ceremony held that Marlborough Country Club. We look forward to an accelerated process and becoming fully 
accredited by the summer of 2023. 
We continue to work towards a Co-Response Model approach to mental health type of calls. This would involve 
partnering officer(s) with a mental health clinician to assist with individuals in crisis. We have been meeting with 
Community Health Link and Advocates to assess our needs, and develop a Co-Response plan. We have also been 
exploring a partnership with the Town of Lancaster to share a clinician between the towns. We hope to have this 
program become a reality by the fall of 2023. 
2022 Statistical Information: 
The overall goal of the Lunenburg Police Department is a reduction of crime, assure quality of life issues are 
addressed, and provide a safe community to live, work and visit. The Department evaluates effectiveness, in part, 
by statistical information that is generated through the Records Management System. 
The following statistical information is to provide some insight into our officers’ activity for 2022. 
 
Total calls for service thru December 31, 2022:   27,156 
Motor Vehicle stops totals: 3,572   
Citations Civil (fines): 89   
Citations Warnings: 1340   
Citations Criminal Offenses: 189   
MV Arrests: 46   
Arrest Totals: 400   
Arrests Custody: 134   
Arrests Summons: 261   
Protective Custody: 5   
Motor Vehicle Accidents (MVA) totals: 307   
MVA with injury: 74   
MVA without injury: 197   
MVA hit and run: 36   
Domestic Violence Related Incidents totals: 77   
Arrest/Summons: 22   
Restraining Orders (RO): 36   
Mental Health Incidents totals: 69   
Attempted/Threat of Suicide 29   
Mental Health Evaluations 40   
Firearms Licensing totals: 222   
LTC Class A: 210   
FID: 11   
Sell Ammunition 1   
Animal Control totals: 205   
Dog Bites: 11   
===PAGE 90===
90 
As result of the above calls our officers generated a total of 1,777 written reports. There were 434 reports 
involving Incident Based Reporting (IBR), and National Incident Based Reporting (NIBRS), which is a State and 
Federal Crime reporting data base. The Officers also generated an additional 483 written reports that did not fall 
into the IBR/NIBRS category. 
According to NIBRS, reported crimes are broken down into three categories, Crimes Against Persons, Crimes Against 
Property, and Crimes Against Society. These are further broken down into Group A and Group B categories to closely 
match the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) program. The Lunenburg Police Department regularly reports IBR 
information to the State, which in turn reports the information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
In 2022 there has been a 19% increase in Group A, Crimes Against Persons, with Aggravated and Simple Assaults 
as well as Intimidation (witness/victim) accounting for the majority of the incidents with 39 out of 62 total reported 
incidents. These numbers appear to have a direct correlation to the Domestic Violence calls that officers have 
responded to in 2022. 
In 2022 there has been a 34% decrease in Group A, Crimes Against Property. Although we have observed a 
decrease in property crimes, the area we have observed an increase is shoplifting, accounting for a majority of the 
incidents with 40 out of 142 total reported incidents. 
Training: 
Training continues to be a priority for the Department. The Department’s in-house trainers look for ingenuitive ways to 
complement our annual in-service training. In addition, several officers have attended specialized training in various 
areas of Law Enforcement as a part of professional development. 
 
Use of Force: 
The Department conducts an annual analysis of Use of Force incidents, as well as review(s) of the incidents as they 
occur. In 2022 officers were involved in nine (9) use of force incidents, which remained the same as compared to 2021. 
In each Use of Force incident de-escalation tactics, including the use of verbal tactics, were first utilized prior to any Use 
of Force application. Officers continue to strive to de-escalate confrontations prior to any application of Use of Force. 
 
Motor Vehicle Pursuits: 
The Department conducts an annual analysis of Motor Vehicle Pursuits, as well as review(s) of pursuits as they occur. In 
2022 officers were involved in five (5) motor vehicle pursuits, which remained the same as compared to 2021. One 
pursuit resulted in a motor vehicle accident but occurred after the pursuit had been terminated. No injuries to the public, 
officers or suspect(s) involved in the pursuits were reported. 
 
Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District: 
The Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District (NVRDD) is a Regional Emergency Communications Center located in 
Devens, MA. NVRDD serves as the 9 -1-1 public safety answering point and dispatch center for Police, Fire and EMS 
for the communities of Lunenburg, Bolton, Devens, Harvard, Lancaster and Lunenburg. NVRDD was one of the first 
Regional Emergency Communications Centers in the State of Massachusetts, opening its doors on June 18, 2013. 
NVRDD serves a total population of just over 35,000 residents and thousands more visitors to the orchards, farms, 
businesses, and attractions within its six communities. In 2022, NVRDD handled 33,500 phone calls coming in on 911 
and business lines. NVRDD also coordinated the response to over 89,900 calls for service. NVRDD's staff are highly 
skilled in call-handling and dispatching, and are all able to perform both functions simultaneously. These first of the first
-responders provide a vital and seamless link between the community and their local police, fire, and emergency medical 
services. While the focus is on handling emergencies, our staff also serves the public and our responders by providing 
other administrative and non -emergency dispatch tasks. NVRDD staffs the communications center with multiple 
dispatchers and supervisors each shift to handle calls and requests. 
 
In 2022 NVRDD processed a total of 89,900 calls for service (CFS). Of these calls for service, 
32,067 were for the Town of Lunenburg. These calls for service average out to 2,673 CFS per 
month in the Town of and 88 CFS per day in the Town of Lunenburg. Each CFS represents one 
report entered into the Computer Aided Dispatch system by the dispatchers for the 9 -1-1 calls 
handled, the police, fire, or medical emergencies dispatched, and the other miscellaneous duties 
they perform on a daily basis. 
 
In 2022 NVRDD Telecommunicators answered 10,989 9-1-1 Calls. This total averages out to 916 
emergency 9- 1-1 calls per month and approximately 30 emergency 911 calls per day. NVRDD Staff prides itself in 
customer service and standards of care. Our average 9 -1-1 answer time is 3.5 seconds, which is approximately half of a 
normal telephone “ring”. Our staff is also evaluated monthly on their call handling skills and they rate at an average 94% 
adherence to the call taking protocols. 

===PAGE 91===
91 
NVRDD Telecommunicators average 32 hours of training per year. In 2022 NVRDD welcomed several new 
members to the team: three dispatchers, an administrative coordinator, a treasurer, and an accountant. NVRDD is 
approved for a total of 15 Full-Time Employees, and 3 Part-Time Employees. Currently NVRDD has 14 of the 15 
Full-Time Positions filled, and all 3 Part-Time Positions filled. NVRDD is projected to be fully staffed by the 
beginning of FY24. 
Conclusion: 
 
I would like to thank the Citizens of Lunenburg for their continued support. Without collaboration with our 
Community we would not be successful. We look forward to the New Year, and to continue to bring the very best in 
policing to our Community. 
I would also like to thank the women and men of the Lunenburg Police Department for their dedication to the 
Community, and the work that they perform on a daily basis. The personnel of the Department play a vital role in 
making Lunenburg a great place to live, work and visit for all. 
Thank you, 
 
Chief Thomas L. Gammel 
===PAGE 92===
92 
===PAGE 93===
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 94===
94 
CAPITAL PLANNING  REPORT 
 
Fiscal Year 2023 Capital Plan
 
 
The Capital Planning Committee began the capital planning process for Fiscal Year 2023 in September 2021.  The Capital Planni ng 
documents were sent to departments in late September and the Capital Planning Committee met with the departments throughout 
November and December to review all the capital project requests as a group.  The Capital Planning Committee prioritized 31 c apital 
projects. One project was removed due to not receiving a cost estimate and one project has been pushed out to FY24 as more 
information was needed. The remaining 29 projects totaled $3,861,049. The Committee presented the prioritized list to the Tow n 
Manager in January as required by the Town Charter and the Town Manager is recommending funding 23 of the prioritized project s 
totaling $2,162,849. 
 
Below is the FY 2023 Capital Plan being recommended for approval at the Annual Town Meeting:  
 
 
More information on the individual capital requests can be found on the town website at:
  
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/sites/default/files/field/files-docs/revised_fy2023_capital_plan_3-15-22.pdf 
Capital Planning Committee Members: 
Brian Lehtinen, Chair, School Committee Representative 
Tom Alonzo, Vice-Chair, Select Board Representative 
Paula Bertram, Planning Board Representative 
David Passios, Finance Committee Representative 
George Martin, Member At Large 
TM 
Priority #
CPC 
Priority #
Collins 
Pts CIP# Dept. Project Name Category FY 23 Projected
1 4 81 INFRA21-02 Infrastructure Page Street Culvert Construction Highway 150,000.00$            
2 2 47 DPW17-08 DPW 10-Wheel, plow & sand Repl. 1994 Mack Vehicles 250,000.00$            
3 1 36 FM22-01 Infrastructure PSB Enginnering Design for Drainage Town Facilities 25,000.00$              
4 3 52 FM22-04 Facilities Senior Center, HVAC Upgrades Town Facilities 25,000.00$              
5 5 70 GG22-01 Planning BoardMaster Plan Gen. Govt 110,000.00$            
6 6 41 DPW22-03 DPW Two Way Radio System Highway 35,000.00$              
7 7 69 PD22-01 Police Canine Replacement Police 24,250.00$              
8 8 54 PD20-03 Police Police Marked Ford Interceptor Hybrid -Addition to Fleet Police 62,000.00$              
9 9 66 FM19-05 Facilities Town Hall Repairs- Vertex Year 2 Items 7-11 & 13 Town Facilities 96,000.00$              
10 10 60 INFRA21-05 Infrastructure Flat Hill Road Drainage Study Highway 45,000.00$              
11 14 61 LPS19-05 Schools One Ton Dump Truck with Plow Schools 58,833.00$              
12 12 67 GG22-02 Town Manager Records Retention Gen. Govt 62,500.00$              
13 13 46 DPW21-01 DPW Utility Tractor/Rotary Mower Combo Highway 170,000.00$            
14 11 30 INFRA22-03 Facilities Marshall Park Survey Town Facilities 25,000.00$              
15 15 61 FM21-05 Facilities Senior Center, Vertex Items #4, 7 (1998 Roof Replacement) Town Facilities 35,661.00$              
16 16 37 DPW17-09 DPW One Ton Dump Truck with Plow Highway 58,000.00$              
17 18 42 LPS19-10 Schools Mower Schools 45,000.00$              
18 17 47 FM21-06 Facilities Brooks House-Vertex Items #3, #4 Foundation Town Facilities 24,000.00$              
19 19 54 PD16-14-2 Police Police Marked Ford 150 Responder - Addition to fleet Police 67,805.00$              
20 20 53 FM19-08A Facilities Old Primary-Vertex Haz. Matls Abatement Town Facilities 371,000.00$            
21 21 63 FM17-16B Facilities Senior Cetner, Install Generator Town Facilities 90,000.00$              
22 22 44 FM22-03 Facilities Senior Center, Outdoor ADA Patio Town Facilities 100,000.00$            
23 25 50 LPS19-3-B Schools AC for Classrooms at Primary School Schools 232,800.00$            
2,162,849.00$         
Funding: Raise & appropriate 967,725.00              
Free cash 983,034.39              
Unexpended Capital 212,089.61              
Premium Reserved for Capital
Special Purpose Stabilization Account
Total Available Funding 2,162,849.00           
Surplus/(Shortfall) -                          
===PAGE 95===
95 
PLANNING BOARD 
Fourteen (14) ANR Plans (land division plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law, but still 
requiring Board endorsement) were approved.   
 
Lunenburg’s Stormwater Bylaw requires Board review and approval for any development/redevelopment project that 
disturbs one acre or more of land.  This Bylaw safeguards the public health, safety, welfare and the environment by 
minimizing adverse impacts of contaminated stormwater both off-site and downstream.  These updates are more likely to 
affect large commercial projects and multi -family dwellings; not the average homeowner wanting to put in a shed, 
garden, pool, etc.  The Board approved stormwater permits for the following: 
 
 A warehouse off Leominster-Shirley Road; 
 A single-family house lot at 324 Flat Hill Road; 
 Construction of a 7-bay garage at 225 & 259 Leominster-Shirley Road; 
 The creation of four (4) lots at Cross and Mulpus; 
 The creation of six (6) lots on the corner of Holman and Northfield Road. 
 
Lunenburg has four designated Scenic Roads; Lancaster Avenue, Flat Hill Road, Northfield Road and Leominster Road.  
Over the past year you may have noticed building lots, such as some of those mentioned in the paragraph above, being 
created on some of these roads.  As these are Scenic Roads, any repair, maintenance, re -construction, or paving work in 
the Town’s right-of-way cannot involve the cutting or removal of trees or the tearing down or destruction of stone walls 
without consent of the Planning Board.   
 
The Commonwealth issued Site Eligibility for a proposed 40B development off Howard Street and the Board provided 
its comments to the Town Manager.  The Planning Board in conjunction with many other Boards, Commissions, Town 
Officials, and private citizens submitted numerous comments outlining the Town’s opposition to the development of 200 
apartment units at 400 Howard St. The development of affordable housing is critical to Lunenburg; however, the site in 
question has significant flaws that concern Town Officials.  The applicant is currently going through the public hearing 
process with the Zoning Board of Appeals. 
 
The Board submitted four articles for November 2021 Special Town Meeting. 
 Two of the articles, which passed, updated the zoning bylaw to reflect the current zoning; 
 Two articles were submitted on behalf of the Water District to update the Watershed Protection Map.  DEP 
requested additional changes to the proposed bylaw which Board members were not comfortable with; therefore, the 
Board chose to pass over the Water District articles.   
 
The Land Use Director worked on a new draft for 2022 Annual Town Meeting.  The two Water District articles were 
submitted for May 2022 town meeting, but did not pass.   
A third article was also submitted for 2022 Annual Town Meeting which added clarification to the permitting process for 
non-medical marijuana establishments.  That article passed. 
Uma Flowers, a cannabis retail facility, was awarded a Community Host Agreement from Lunenburg and submitted an 
application for a state -licensed retail establishment under Section 250 -4.15. Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments of 
the zoning bylaw.  The establishment will be located at 43 Summer Street (site of the former Donnelly’s Tavern).   
 
An application was received for construction of a 367,000 square foot warehouse and distribution building at 260  
Falulah Road.  The majority of the building was located on Airport Road/Crawford Street in Fitchburg, but a portion 
extended into Lunenburg.   
 
Approval was given for the construction of a 372,000 square foot warehouse and distribution building off Leominster -
Shirley Road near the Shirley town line.  As a result of this approval, improvements were made to Leominster -Shirley 
Road with the addition of an eastbound left -turn lane into the project and the widening of the road to the north (towards 
Reservoir Road) on the project side of the street. 
 
Under the Unitil Reliability Project, Unitil submitted an application for the removal and/or pruning of public shade trees 
along Leominster Road from Sunny Hill Road to Kilburn Street.  Some of the proposed trees already had contact with 
existing power lines.  Poles would be replaced and lines placed three to seven feet higher than the current placement.  By 
upgrading the existing lines Unitil expected to reduce outage time for incidents that occurred from the center of town to 
Goodrich Street.   
 
===PAGE 96===
96 
The Planning Board requested and was approved for Capital Plan Funding to begin an update of the 2002 Master Plan. 
This update will likely begin in FY23 and carry through FY25. The process will include public visioning sessions, input 
from as many stakeholders as possible, and will aid in moving Lunenburg and its policies through the next decade and 
beyond. 
 
Legislation passed requiring any MBTA community to have a zoning district of reasonable size in which multi -family 
housing would be permitted as of right.  A minimum density of 15 housing units per acre was required.  The town is 
currently working on compliance. The results and approach to complying with the requirements outlined in in MGL 
Chapter 40A Section 3A will be done through a public process by the Planning Board.  
 
The Planning Board created an Economic Development Committee which began meeting in April 2021. Over the past 
year the Committee has worked to build a relationship with the Lunenburg Business Association, the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts Office of Business Development, and other stakeholders to provide policy recommendations to the 
Planning Board and create an environment that supports existing and proposed business in Lunenburg.  
 
Meetings resumed at Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom.   
 
Paula Bertram announced she would not seek another term at May 2022 town election.  Amanda Reid was elected to the 
Board to serve until 2027.   
 
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be reached at 978 -
582-4147 extension 5.  Various forms are available online at https://lunenburgma.gov/ on the Planning Board ’s 
homepage.  The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains the Protective [Zoning] Bylaws), 
Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special 
Permits, and Permitting Guidebook are available online.   
 
 
 
 
Ad Hoc Open Space Advisory Committee to the Planning Board  
 
The Open Space Committee’s efforts in FY’22 principally focused on gaining a better understanding of the Town of 
Lunenburg’s portfolio of vacant, undeveloped, “general municipal” lands, and assessing which of those properties may 
be repurposed more specifically to meet needs identified in the Town’s Open Space and Recreation Plan. 
The Open Space Committee also reviewed several Chapter 61 withdrawal notifications this past year as part of the 
town’s defined multi-board process and reviewed the tax sale/taking process in the Spring of 2022. 
The Open Space Committee investigated two parcels on Lake Shirley held by the Town and reviewed them for possible 
lake access (car top kayak and canoe launch) for Lunenburg residents. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Michael Toohill, Chair 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair Matthew Brenner, Clerk Amanda Reid, Member 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair Erik Torgersen, Member Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
===PAGE 97===
97 
          ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 
 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard several petitions during calendar year 2022.   There were several applicants seeking 
special permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board meetings are held on the second and 
fourth Wednesdays of the month at Town Hall at 7:00PM on an “as needed” basis or ZOOM as an alternative. 
On August 18, 2022 a 40B Comprehensive Permit was filed for property located at 318, 319 & 400 Howard Street, for a 
project known as Pond View Commons owned by The Homes at Aro Estates, LLC.   
The proposal is to construct three multifamily residential buildings under the Massachusetts Comprehensive Permit 
Statute, Massachusetts General Law’s c.40B, ss.20-23.  
The applicant Pond View Commons, LLC seeks to create 200 apartment units within three multifamily residential 
buildings.   
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:  Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, James Besarkarski, Vice -Chairman, 
Members:  Hans Wentrup, David Blatt, Patrick Callahan and Anthony Nicastro and Donald Gurney, Associate members.   
Lisa Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board. 
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows: 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-laws. 
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws. 
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General Laws, as 
amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or enforcement action from 
the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or other 
Administrative Official. 
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 40B.  
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits submitted to the Board under Chapter 
40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.  These requests can, by law, circumvent local zoning 
ordinances. 
The office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, 
Lunenburg.  Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Tuesday and 
Thursday, closed Friday.  I 
f you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978 -582-4146 X 421 during regular 
business hours.  Zoning Board applications are available in the office and online at www.Lunenburgma.gov. 
 
 
 Alfred Gravelle, Chairman 
James Besarkarski, Vice Chairman 
Hans Wentrup, Member 
David Blatt, Member 
Patrick Callahan, Member 
Anthony Nicastro, Associate Member 
Donald Gurney, Associate Member 
===PAGE 98===
98 
===PAGE 99===
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDUCATION  
===PAGE 100===
100 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
Superintendent’s Message 
I am pleased to present my annual report for the Lunenburg Public Schools.  I want to express my gratitude for a 
collaborative approach toward projecting and planning for current and future needs with the Town Manager, Heather 
Lemieux.  As the leader of the district, I am fortunate to work with a School Committee that is truly dedicated to serving 
the best interests of our students and appreciative that the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee work 
collaboratively with the School Committee and School Department to problem-solve in order to better meet the 
educational needs of the children of Lunenburg. 
 
The district has remained focused on our Strategy for Continuous Improvement, which is aligned with our Mission and 
Vision: 
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-
long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives. 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to becoming a leader in education by focusing on its values of attending to 
the personal well-being of its students, providing high-quality curricula and student-centered instruction for deeper 
learning at all levels, and promoting the development of attributes and skills necessary for continuous learning for all. 
 
The Strategy is a living document.  Each August the District Leadership Team reviews the Strategy, its objectives and 
action plans. The Strategy objectives for the next two to three years are: 
 
Transforming Teaching and Learning: To ensure teaching and learning are student -centered and inclusive 
by: (1) establishing effective teams of educational leaders to accomplish the essential work for transforming 
practice, and (2) hiring and developing excellent educators who are continually learning and adapting practice to 
meet the needs of all students.  
Cultivating Climate & Culture: To create a culture that values data use and fosters continuous learning in 
a climate that is safe, caring, inclusive and reflective of our core values.  
 
Communication & Operations: To improve operational efficiencies, including communication, in order to 
increase the organization’s capacity to execute the district’s mission and vision. 
 
Equity, Access, Achievement & Opportunity for All Students: To ensure all students are provided equal 
access to a high-quality education, that is collaborative, interactive, and relevant with an appropriate level of 
support and challenge so that they can become well-rounded, resilient, confident, and capable young adults 
adequately prepared for future challenges.  
 
Over the last several years we have worked to put in place the necessary infrastructure to support the academic 
achievement of all students.  We have established curriculum leadership positions, instructional specialists/coaches, 
teacher curriculum leaders; piloted and purchased evidence-based math and literacy curricula for Kindergarten (K) 
through grade 5; implemented a standards-based benchmark assessment in math and literacy for grades K through 8; 
provided job-embedded professional development for teachers in best instructional practices and using assessment data 
to inform their instruction; and hired tutoring/intervention staff for additional academic supports during the school day as 
well as after school in order to close learning gaps. The Director of Teaching and Learning and Title I Coordinator 
positions have been and continue to be integral to all of this work. 
 
In order for students to be ready and able to learn in the classroom, behavioral health needs must be addressed.  To that 
end, we have developed a multi-tiered system of added guidance counselors, social workers and adjustment counselors; 
piloted and adopted a districtwide social-emotional learning curriculum.  Students receive social-emotional supports in 
small group with counselors or in a one-on-one setting when student need dictates.  Additionally, we have continued to 
provide Care Solace, an online resource with live 24/7 concierge meant to assist families and individuals in finding local 
mental health support. Care Solace is a tool for school staff and families to connect with community-based mental 
healthcare resources and providers. The vast database of mental health resources includes vetted local therapists and 
programs.  
 
All of these supports have been absolutely critical in order to respond to the increase in significant behavioral health 
needs of our students.  
 
 
===PAGE 101===
101 
Superintendent’s Message 
The district has been working with intent to foster a safe and caring environment and inclusive culture in our schools and 
district.  Last year we administered the National School Climate Center survey for families, students, and staff.  We 
analyzed results and used that data to develop goals to improve our schools’ climate.  We will repeat that survey this 
spring to see if changes have had any impact.  As we look to build a more inclusive culture in our schools, we also look 
to diversify our staff to be more reflective of our community.  To that end, a district team participated in the Department 
of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Teacher Diversification Professional Learning Network and as a result, have 
been examining our recruitment and hiring practices.  The Lunenburg School Committee is also committed to this work 
and requested an equity audit for our district.  The audit commenced in July 2022 and the final report was made available 
to the Lunenburg community in February 2023 via the district website with a request for feedback.  The District 
Leadership will use this report to develop action plans which will be included in the district’s Strategy for Continuous 
Improvement.  Once these plans are developed, as is our annual practice, the administration will seek the Lunenburg 
School Committee’s endorsement.  We look forward to engaging in this work with stakeholders.  
 
Another way the district is seeking to build a more inclusive culture is through strengthening the family-school 
partnership.  This year Luneburg Public Schools was one of four districts/schools selected to participate in the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Family-School Partnership Initiative Program.  We will be 
expanding this work to involve stakeholders. This work will also result in the development of action plans, which will be 
incorporated into the Strategy for Continuous Improvement.    
 
It is important to note that the physical environment of our schools is also important to the learning experience of our 
students.  Turkey Hill Elementary School is an aging facility which was not designed for elementary age students.  It was 
originally a middle school.  The building presents challenges and limitations for our teachers in terms of delivery of 
instruction in the modern era.  Electrical outlets are extremely limited in the classrooms and the lack of energy efficient 
windows creates a challenging learning environment with very high and very low outdoor temperatures.  The building 
has aging systems that cannot be easily, quickly, or inexpensively addressed.  With each passing year, the risk of system 
failures looms larger.  It is important for the school district administration, School Committee, and other boards and 
committees to continue to engage in discussion regarding the future of Turkey Hill Elementary School.   
 
All of these individual efforts and discussions regarding the future are designed to have a cumulative impact on student 
achievement and growth, and overall well-being in the post-COVID years and beyond.  I wish to acknowledge and thank 
our staff for their professionalism and flexibility as we have continued to make adjustments in order to provide the best 
possible learning environment and experience for our students; our parents and families for their continued support and 
partnership; and the Lunenburg School Committee, Town Manager, and local boards and committees for their support of 
the schools.  We remain focused on improving the ways in which we support our students academically, socially and 
emotionally in partnership with parents, extended families, and the greater community.  Through this work we are on a 
journey together. Collectively we have been and will continue to make a difference for our students.  I think Maya 
Angelou has captured our journey well when she said, “I have great respect for the past.  If you don’t know where 
you’ve come from, you don’t know where you’re going.  I have respect for the past, but I’m a person of the moment.  
I’m here, and I do my best to be completely centered at the place I’m at, then I go forward to the next place.”  
 
Annually I conclude my report with the announcement of the Superintendent’s Award recipient.  The selection process is 
always difficult as we have many hard-working, high-performing, community service-oriented students.  I am pleased to 
announce Cassandra Cohen as the recipient of the 2023 Superintendent’s Award.  Cassie’s academic accomplishments 
include: Academic Excellence Award in Foreign Language, English, History, Mathematics, and Science.  She is also a 
Smith Book Award recipient.  Cassie has been a member of the Science Olympiad, Golf, and Indoor Track teams.  She is 
a member of the World Hunger Task Force and has served as the Class Treasurer.  She has also volunteered for the 
Lunenburg Food Pantry, served as a peer tutor, and works as an intern in our district’s curriculum office.  Since the 8th 
grade, Cassie has been an assistant teacher at the Joseph C. Foster Religious School.  When asked for a quote that best 
describes her, she offered this Dolly Parton quote: “Find out who you are and do it on purpose.” 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Kate Burnham, Ed.D. 
Superintendent 
 
===PAGE 102===
102 
 
School Facilities Department 
 
The focus of school maintenance for FY22 was to continually support operating the schools, as well as preventative 
maintenance on heating and ventilation systems and energy conservation measures. The focus of repairs continues to be 
on Turkey Hill Elementary School with a major focus on ensuring the heating and ventilation system is fully operational.  
COVID 19  
The district continued its COVID-19 disinfecting protocols, preparing supplies for the teaching environment such as 
additional disinfectant spray bottles and microfiber wipers and changing cleaning protocols to add additional disinfection 
periods during and after the school day.  
 
FIRE ALARM UPGRADES 
The fire alarm system at the Primary School was replaced with a new AUTOCALL 4010 Fire Control Panel/
Annunciator as well as all new devices i.e. smoke detectors.  
 
PLUMBING UPGRADES 
A new State Ultra Force Ultra High Efficiency Direct Fired water heater was installed at the Primary School replacing 
the original water heater.  
 
SECURITY UPGRADES 
Approval was given to replace the existing front door security access system at TC Passios. Currently waiting on control 
panels to arrive at the vendor’s location.  
A new camera was added to the front door lobby area at Turkey Hill Elementary. 
 
Grade Level Lunenburg Resident 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Total 
PK 47 0 47 
K 109 0 109 
1 125 0 125 
2 112  0 112 
Primary Total 393 0 393 
3 111 0 111 
4 142 0 142 
5 107 0 107 
Elementary Total   360 0 360 
6 120 0 120 
7 132 0 132 
8 130 0 130 
Middle School Total 382 0 382 
9 124 7 131 
10 103 6 109 
11 111 5 116 
12 99 8 107 
High School Total  437 26 463 
  Advanced Community 
Experience Program 
5 0 5 
All Schools Total  1577 26 1603 
===PAGE 103===
103 
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING  
During our annual mechanical rooms inspections conducted through our insurance company. It was determined the three 
(3) school building’s mechanical rooms were lacking carbon monoxide detection. Those will be remedied FY-2023. 
 
CAPITAL PROGRAM 
A new replacement 1 Ton Dump truck with a plow was approved and has been ordered. A new replacement campus 
commercial grade lawn mower was approved and has been ordered. 
 
ATHLETIC GRASS FIELDS  
The department continued to focus on maintaining a high level of care on the three grass athletic fields at the LMHS 
complex.  After a rainy summer in 2021, our resources shifted to develop a treatment plan for drought conditions over 
the 2022 summer.  Technical support was sought to keep playing surfaces at a respectable and safe level for our 
students.   
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Stephen Pusateri 
Director of Buildings and Grounds 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools Information Technology Department 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools Information Technology (IT) Department maintained a critical role in the expansion of 
the technology in our classrooms.  The Department worked with staff and students to redefine what classroom 
instruction looks and feels like for our students. 
 
The school year began with all students reporting back in session after the COVID restraints with each student having 
access to a device for daily instruction.  Here is a summary of the district device model: 
 
 Lunenburg Primary School – the building have enough iPads to assist with instruction and testing at the K-2 level 
 Turkey Hill Elementary School – each classroom is equipped with Chromebook carts 
 Lunenburg Middle High School – each student has access to a personal Chromebook, which they can bring home for 
their individual studies 
 
In addition, Turkey Hill Elementary School purchased a Touchview interactive screen for every classroom.   This 
equipment assists with the collaboration between teachers and students and has improved student participation.   
 
Reliance on computers in the classroom and in the households was prevalent when students were burdening the network 
system.  With the assistance from E-rate funding, the district purchased new equipment for the building server rooms, 
including routers, switches, wireless access points and licenses.  
 
Besides expanding educational needs, the IT Department maintained the typical response to maintain the district’s core 
technology services.  Our team continues to learn and grow each year as we improve our infrastructure and explore 
innovations in education technology.  The district is still working with a consultant to audit current practices, 
applications and models to measure any areas for growth, improvement and capacity. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Michael Cassidy 
Business Manager/HR Director 
===PAGE 104===
104 
Special Services Department 
(data taken from 2021-2022 school year) 
 
From the March 1, 2022 report (SIMS Report 5-Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), there are 211 students with 
disabilities receiving special education or related  services in Lunenburg (last year there were 251).  This represents 
13.2% of our total student population of 1,593 students (it was 15.9% last year).  The state average from the 2021-22 
Selected Populations Report (https://profiles.doe.mass.edu/statereport/selectedpopulations.aspx) is 19.4%.  From the 
March 1, 2022 report (SIMS Report 7-SPED Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), the total number of students 
receiving services outside the district was 8 (last year was 12).  Of the 8 students, 4 are placed in Collaborative 
Placements, 2 are in Day Placements and 2 are in Residential Placements.  Our Advanced Community Experience 
Program (ACE), which serves students ages 18-22 years old, had 3 students enrolled last year.  Additionally, from the 
March 1, 2022 report, 130 students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg 
(last year was 146). 
 
For the 2022 school year, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, most districts and schools (including Lunenburg) did 
not receive an accountability determination in 2022.  Participation rates in MCAS this year were as follows:  High Needs 
= 99%, Low Income = 99%, EL and Former EL = 100%, and Students w/disabilities = 99%. This data can be found at 
the DESE website:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5& 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole Special Services 
Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each year.  For our Indicators, the 
following information is available below and also can be found at: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?
orgcode=01620000& 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2020 -2021 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was 76.33% (was 
73.4% last year). Lunenburg ’s rate was 55.6% (was 86.7% last year) and the overall state rate was 80.4% (was 74.7% 
last year) for Students with IEPs.   
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2020 -2021 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was 13.97% (was 
1.7% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was 0.0% (it was “Suppresed*” last year) and the overall state 
rate was 10.4% (was 2.7% last year).  *Special Education data are suppressed for enrollment counts fewer than 6.  
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS. 2020 -21 was a benchmark year so there is no state 
target for the Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS in English/Language Arts and in Mathematics. 
The 2021 district-level data on the performance of all students with IEPs on MCAS, including Next -Generation MCAS, 
Legacy MCAS and the MCAS-Alt, is available at: 
 http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/subgroups2.aspx?linkid=25&orgcode=01620000&fycode=2021&orgtypecode=5  
 
 http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/achievement_alt_level.aspx?linkid=116&orgcode=01620000&fycode=2021&orgtypecode=5  
 
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, our rate was 0.0% (last 
year it was 0.4%).  The state rate was .4%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant discrepancies with the 
Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2021, Lunenburg was not found to have any significant 
discrepancies due to these factors.  
Indicator 5  - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2020 -2021, the state ’s rates are as 
follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 66.2%, Partial Inclusion = 13.7%, Substantially Separate Placements = 13.5%, 
and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 6.5%.  In Lunenburg, our percentages are as 
follows:  Full Inclusion = 70.0%, Partial = 9.2%, Substantially Separate = 14.6% and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 
6.3%.  
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3-5 with IEPs.  The 2020-2021 state rates showed the percent 
of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full Inclusion early childhood 
program was 5 2.3%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was 1 6.1%, a Substantially Separate Placement (special education 
class, separate school, or residential facility) was 1 9.4%, and students not attending an early childhood program but 
receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was 1 2.0%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate 
was 20.8%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 20.8%, Substantially Separate rate was 37.5%, and Related Services was 
20.8%. 
===PAGE 105===
105 
Indicator 7 – Early Childhood Outcomes.  Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as part of a 4 year cycle in 
which they report exit data on children for whom they have collected entry level data; exit may occur at any time during 
the subsequent three year period as the children leave the preschool program.  Lunenburg’s 2020-2021 cohort reporting 
year results are  suppressed for districts reporting 10 or fewer students. 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special education who 
report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results for students with IEPs.  
For 2020-2021 the state target was 89%.  Lunenburg’s rate was 57.1% and the state’s rate was 60.1% (from information 
collected in the Spring of 2019).  
Indicator 9 & 10  - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special Education 
Categories.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in either case.  
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   This indicator measures the % of children with parental consent to evaluate, 
who were evaluated within the State established timeline (2017-2018). Data is reported for all initial evaluations initiated 
in October, November, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 90% in compliance and the state 
average for this Indicator was 100%.  
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, found eligible 
for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third birthdays. The state target 
for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppressed” (last school year reviewed was 2017 -18). Data is 
suppressed if the number of students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is fewer than 
10. 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 100%.  This indicator 
measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that includes appropriate measurable postsecondary 
goals that are annually updated and based upon an age appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including 
courses of study, that will reasonably enable the student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related 
to the student's transition services needs.  Lunenburg was last reviewed in this area in 2017-2018 and was 83.3% in 
compliance.  
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students with IEPs who 
exited high school during the 201 9-2020 school year and self -reported post -school engagement in education or 
employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through three measurements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training program; or 
competitively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high school.  
 
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post -secondary 
activity one year after leaving high school. For the 20 20-2021 school year, state targets for the three measurements of 
Post-School Outcomes are Measurement A: 40.0%; Measurement B: 7 3.0%; and Measurement C: 79.0%.  Lunenburg 
rates are as follows (from reporting year 20 20-2021):  Measurement A = 50%, Measurement B = 75%, and 
Measurement C = 75%.   
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support group for parents, 
teachers and administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, which currently consists of 
parents of students receiving Title I services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are currently being held 
quarterly, 6pm, via Zoom.  The executive board is made up of a Chairperson: Nichole Camelo.   
For more information, go to: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-directory/special-
services/pacsal?authuser=0  In addition to the district PACSAL, Lunenburg also participates in a Regional SEPAC 
group.  Information from this group is on Facebook at “Regional SEPAC – Central MA”  
The Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to meet the varying needs of our 
students in the least restrictive environment. We have an experienced, hard working staff that works together with 
parents to provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to develop challenging and 
focused educational programs for children.  We remain committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools mission, “The 
mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-long 
learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.” This 
mission, we feel, was even able to be upheld during, and following, the pandemic.  Special education services were still 
able to be delivered to students and all DESE recommendations and protocols were put into place and followed in order 
to meet the needs of IEPs as best as possible.   
===PAGE 106===
106 
 
In addition, the Special Services Office also created a specific parent centered page called “Information for Families” 
that works to help keep parents as updated as possible on all the current pandemic concerns related to students with 
disabilities: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-directory/special-services/covid-19-information?
authuser=0    
We are proud of our staff, students, and families and their resiliency during this time and how they continue to work 
together under very stressful times.      
For additional information, please visit our website at: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-
directory/special-services, or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 
Massachusetts Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 5223. 
 
Respectfully Submitted,    Julianna Hanscom  
Director of Special Services 
 
 
Teaching & Learning Models and PD Update 
Lunenburg Public Schools returned to a full learning model for the 2021-2022 school year.  Students are invested in 
learning, and teachers are working diligently to evaluate student progress, identify learning gaps, make adjustments to 
practice, and provide scaffolds accordingly.  We have implemented structured common planning time for teachers in 
grade level content areas so that teachers may unpack and plan for units of study, align to standards, and look at data and 
student work.  Our district literacy specialist and our math instructional specialist meet with teachers during common 
planning time to support curriculum development and help foster student growth.  High school department heads 
structure department meeting time to facilitate the necessary curriculum work needed to move each department forward 
and improve learning for students. 
 
Students in grades K-8 completed the fall and winter iReady diagnostic assessment in both reading and math, and 
teachers are participating in data cycles to analyze data, plan for targeted support, and adjust instruction. Personalized 
learning platforms through iReady provide differentiated instruction, systematic practice, and scaffolded feedback in 
both reading and math. 
The Lunenburg Public School District is participating in the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) Literacy 
Academy and Social Emotional Learning Academy through the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
(DESE).  The Literacy Academy provides coaching sessions and technical assistance in specific grade levels for literacy, 
including a focus on understanding the science of reading and standards-based lesson planning.  Both Academies assist 
our district with creating multi-tiered systems of support with a focus on tier I, II, and III in academics and social 
emotional learning and behavioral health. 
A K-5 math council including grade level teachers, special services teachers, EL teachers, and administrators, has been 
working with DESE’s Evaluating and Selecting High-Quality Materials Network to review and select a core math 
curriculum.  We are planning to begin a field test and pilot of several programs beginning in February and make a final 
decision regarding purchase this spring.   
Math teachers in grades K-5 have been working with a math consultant and have garnered new strategies for 
mathematical discourse routines.  Twenty staff members from throughout the district, including guidance counselors, 
social workers, and teachers were trained and have been implementing the Trails to Wellness curriculum, which is an 
evidence based social emotional wellness program rooted in cognitive behavioral ideology. 
Our Professional Development Committee continues to check-in with the district to evaluate needs and prepare for 
upcoming professional learning including future book studies and workshops.  Our administrative team and our 
curriculum leaders are working with a consultant on workshops pertaining to diversity, equity, and inclusion and plan to 
proceed with this work to include the entire district staff.  The team is also participating in a book study based on the 
book Caste, by Isabel Wilkerson, which takes a close look at social constructs in the United States.   Our team is 
studying these constructs in connection with our school system and identifying ways we can improve student inclusion 
and experiences in Lunenburg. 
We are pleased to have introduced a new After School Program at the Lunenburg Primary School, Turkey Hill 
Elementary School, Lunenburg Middle School and Lunenburg High School.  The program for grades 1-5 provides 
targeted support in literacy and math in addition to a Friday enrichment day.  The program for grades 6-12 provides 
academic support for students’ current classes in addition to support with executive functioning skills.  Our first session 
will be running for seven weeks followed by a second session for an additional ten weeks.   
===PAGE 107===
107 
 
We look forward to a year of continued learning, growing, and belonging in our district! 
 
Respectfully, Annica Scott    
Director of Teaching & Learning 
 
 
Lunenburg School Food Service 
 
Food Service Director                                                                  
Nadine Lorenzen 
 
Cook/Managers 
John Terho 
Elin Forgues 
Marlene Aubuchon-Hoaglund 
 
General workers 
Eleni Tsiakalos     Krystal Morini 
Vanessa Cole         Danielle Leblanc 
Jessica McCarthy     Jennifer Cotoni 
John Sharp           Jewel Healy 
Allison Clark 
 
The Massachusetts legislature has provided funding to make meals available at no cost to all students during school year 
2022-2023, regardless of household income, ensuring all students have access to the nutrition they need during the 
school day. Unfortunately, the waiver allowing school food service programs to serve non-congregate meals ended 
forcing districts to provide seat time for served meals. As a result, Lunenburg school food service had to stop serving 
grab and go lunches on early release days. In an effort to ensure students continue to benefit from school meals on 
early release days, we will enhance our breakfast options on these days. Our program like many others in United States 
continues to struggle with the supply chain breakdown and price increases.  
 
Lunenburg School Lunch Program is participating in Harvest of the Month again this year. Massachusetts Harvest of 
the Month program promotes a different Massachusetts-produced food each month in cafeterias and meal sites across 
the state. Harvest of the Month has provided our program the opportunity to celebrate local foods, experiment with 
new recipes and lead the way in making farm-fresh foods available to students and staff all while supporting local 
farmers.  
 
We welcome some new employees to our team; John Sharp, Jewel Healy and Allison Clark.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Nadine Lorenzen 
Food Service Director 
===PAGE 108===
108 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL 
The Lunenburg Primary School is a student focused, early childhood, learning community serving students enrolled in 
preschool through grade 2. Student ages range from three to eight years of age. Our community is composed of 
students, families, instructional and support staff. Our focus is on the academic, social emotional growth, and 
development of the whole child. 
The October 1, 2023 student enrollment reported to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education was 387 
students. With 44 preschool students, 106 kindergarten students, 125 first grade students and 112 second grade 
students. Class sizes range in 5 kindergarten classes from 19-23 students, from 18-22 students in six grade one classes, 
and from 20-23 in  five grade two classes.  
Our professional development has centered on implementing two new evidenced based curriculums in math and 
literacy from HMH. Into Reading and Into Math. Common Planning Time continues to be a priority for our building 
schedule and the re-allocation of existing support staff to address student needs based on student performance data.  
We have been able to access consultants as well district curriculum coordinators so that teachers have an 
opportunity as a whole grade level to develop and provide evidence based instruction, common learning 
experiences, student data analysis and share effective teaching strategies to support student academic 
growth. 
Our staff works to maintain a school culture, which is positive, inclusive, and supportive. We continue to implement 
the Responsive Classroom model in all of our classrooms.  Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS) is 
an evidence-based three-tiered framework for improving and integrating all of the data, systems, and practices 
affecting student outcomes every day.  We continue to use Trails to Wellness, which is a whole-school/district-wide 
approach to teaching social emotional learning. It is designed to help students recognize, understand, 
describe, communicate and regulate their emotions and provide them with the tools they need to create and 
maintain positive social interaction with their peers.  
The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to ensure that all 
students have the services they need to be successful.  Common assessments are completed in the fall, winter, and 
spring for all children in grades K -2 in the areas of reading, writing, and math. These common assessments serve to 
monitor the effectiveness of teacher instruction and the progress of students. Struggling students are identified based 
on assessment data for access to our current Multi -Tiered Support System (MTSS) in Reading, Math, Speech, 
Occupational and Physical Therapy. The MTSS model is also used to provide social emotional support for students 
that are referred to our building Behavioral Health Support Team. 
The Primary School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns.  Serving as an advisory group to 
the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and developing the school 
improvement plan.   
Members of the Council for the 2022-2023 school year are: 
Principal:                Chad Adams 
Assistant Principal:              Gina Kutarnia 
Teachers:                          Kirsten Snape, Kara Slattery, Serene Pease, Melanie Roy, Tara Bastien 
Parents:        Meaghan Arnold, Shaunna Baril, Ashley Steele 
School Committee Rep:     Laura Kelly 
We are truly grateful for the opportunity to work with our highly dedicated district wide colleagues and a caring 
community in order to provide the best possible educational opportunities for our youngest students.  
For more information about the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our website:  https://
sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/ 
Respectfully submitted, 
Chad Adams, Principal 
  
===PAGE 109===
109 
 Central Office  Second Grade Teachers 
  Chad Adams - Principal    2A - Serene Pease - Teacher 
  Gina Kutarnia - Asst. Principal    2B - Julie Hudson - Teacher 
  Krissy Carbone - Admin Secretary    2C - Sara Kenney - Teacher 
  Chelsea Drake - Nurse    2D - Patti Kilcommins - Teacher 
  Stephanie Miller- Counselor / LICSW    2F - Brittany Gibbons -Teacher 
  Ennis Ward - Counselor    Kaitlin Clement - Para 
  Sarah Woods - LICSW    Mari Braithwaite - Para 
  Julie DeWalt - Psychologist      
  Karen Tata - Office Clerk      
     Special Education 
Pre-School    Laura Refrigeri 
  Sherrie Flynn - Teacher    Julie Drake - Sped Para 
  Patti McColl - Para    Michelle Withers 
  Mary DeConinck - Para    Carolyn Bradley - Sped Para 
  Jill Lundstrom - Achieve Teacher    Kristen Anthony 
  Shannon Loughlin - Para    Karen Vlasek - Sped Para 
  Sarah Call - Para      
  Kristine Hall - Para  Physical Education/Health 
       Yanina Burns 
Achieve  Art 
  Brittany Pepoli - ACH Teacher    Heidi Quinlivan 
  Maia Wentrup - Para  Music 
  Julia Glover - Para    Debra DiFruscia 
  Alexis Wasiuk - TLC Teacher  STEM 
  Maureen Dupuis - Para     Tara Bastien 
     Library / Media 
Kindergarten    Erin Mack 
  K1 - Kirsten Snape - Teacher      
  K2 - Carly Surette - Teacher  Reading Specialist 
  K3 - Sheila Bilotta - Teacher    Nancy Murray 
  K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher    Juan Rojas - Tutor 
  K6 - Amy Raffaele - Teacher    Nicole Vautour - Tutor 
  Sophia Holman - Para      
  Cailey Powell - Para  Specialists 
  Taylor Munroe - Para    Mary Sieling - Speech 
       Sue Richards - Phys. Therap 
First Grade Teachers    Jayne Dusek - COTA 
  1A - Michael Courtemanche    Maggie Porpora - Occup Therap. 
  1B - Nicole Bienvenu    Kristi Schkuta - BCBA 
  1C - Kara Slattery    Elena Oksanish - Speech 
  1D - Christa Palma      
  1E - Jackie Favreau    Cafeteria 
  1F - Melissa Orlowski    Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager 
  Juliana Gentilucci - Para    Jewel Healy  / Jessica McCarthy 
         
         
  ELL Teachers    Custodians 
  Meredith Weiss    Jose Marcial Allende 
  Christina Kim    Sean Sproul / Leesa Glenny 
===PAGE 110===
110 
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
 
It has been a remarkable year of recovery and growth for our school community.  A full two years after the COVID 
epidemic so profoundly affected all of our personal and professional lives; we finally had the luxury to implement 
“normal” protocols again in our classrooms.  The masks became voluntary, social distancing officially ended, Plexiglas 
shields were stored away, and children were allowed to work and play with their peers without restrictions.  In March, 
we unrolled our classroom carpets, grouped desks together for collaborative learning, and many other restrictions were 
eliminated.  We invited parents back into our building with both a Memorial Day celebration in May and moving up 
ceremony for fifth graders in June.  All students enjoyed exciting new experiences on field trips:  3rd graders to the 
Ecotarium, 4th graders to Leominster State Forest, and 5th graders to Polar Park in Worcester for a WooSox game. It was 
wonderful to operate as a fully functioning, fully present elementary school again. 
In the fall of 2022 Turkey Hill Elementary School had 358 enrolled students. There are five sections of grade 3 and 
grade 5, with a total of 111 students and 105 students respectively.  There are six sections of grades 4 with 142 students. 
We employ 27 teachers, 100% of whom are licensed in their assignment area. Our special areas include physical 
education, art, music, library, STEM, and social emotional learning. We are also served by a full time assistant principal, 
two full time nurses, a psychologist, BCBA, a full time adjustment counselor/social worker and a guidance counselor. 
Other support personnel who work across the district include a literacy specialist/Title 1 coordinator, a math specialist, 
the Director of Teaching and Learning, two EL teachers, a speech and language pathologist, OT, and PT. We continue to 
benefit from the services of an interventionist and two supporting tutors. They work under the direction of our literacy 
specialist and provide targeted support for small groups of students.  Our talented front office administrative assistant, 
Ms. McAllister, effectively keeps all of us organized, ensuring that students’ after school and dismissal plans are 
conveyed to teachers, welcoming new families and helping them through registration, and keeping administrators on 
track each day.  
Staff rededicated themselves to our mission of providing all students with the skills, confidence and passion for lifelong 
learning, and students focused to develop their skills in literacy and math, social studies and science, as well as the 
special area subjects. Beyond that, our school enjoyed several enriching events.   
In January, May and September, all students participated in the iReady reading and math benchmark assessments, and 
we celebrated students’ academic growth and effort.  We continue to address the negative impact of remote learning, 
and data provided by these assessments helps refine our focus for interventions.   
In March and April, THES and Primary School staff collaborated under the guidance of curriculum director Annica 
Scott and literacy coach/Title 1 coordinator Deidre Mclean to review, trial and finally select research based, standards 
aligned curriculum for both math and science.  
They chose Houghton Mifflin Harcourt’s Into Reading and Into Math, and over the summer many teachers started to 
familiarize themselves with the expansive elements of the programs. 
Our annual spelling bee was held in February, and Miss Chloe McKenna withstood the challenges of unfamiliar words 
and several fierce competitors to prevail as our school spelling champion.  
In March, 4th grade parents and students were introduced to a new iteration of Nature’s Classroom by Mrs. Rhonda 
Connery, in preparation for a fall week at Grotonwood.  Every 5th student except a few away on vacation participated in 
the Nature’s Classroom during the last week of September, with the additional option of attending only the day program 
or staying overnight.  There were some tears shed on the Monday bus ride to Groton waving good-bye to parents and a 
few more tears fell on the Friday bus ride home, departing from their camp counselors, as new bonds of friendship were 
formed.  It was a successful week with good weather, community building, and the creation of fond memories of a 
unique time together, thanks to the combined efforts of our entire fifth grade staff. 
We held a fully in-person open house in early September (the first in three years). It was a well-attended event and for 
many parents their first opportunity to be physically present in our building.  It was accompanied by a book fair 
facilitated by our new librarian, Mrs. Mack. Parent conferences in October offered both in person and virtual options and 
appointments were fully booked within a few days.  
Other highlights from the fall season included the Girls on The Run program, a research based program designed to help 
girls understand themselves better, value their relationships and teamwork, and recognize how they can shape the world 
to be a better place! Over 30 girls participated, with the assistance of many parent and high school volunteers, headed by 
Coach Nichole Camelo.  
 
===PAGE 111===
111 
 
We held our annual Penny Wars fundraiser to help purchase exciting new technology for our classrooms. As always, our 
PTO parents and volunteers assisted in the weeklong collection, headed by parent Alex Lind; we could not be successful 
without their efforts .  
All sixteen homerooms as well as our five special education rooms were outfitted with TouchView Panels. These 65 
inch interactive displays allow teachers to create and demonstrate any content to the class from their computers 
Text is easier to read. Students can manipulate the on-screen content as a team and problem solve.  These have become 
essential tools for the classrooms displaying the new literacy and math curricula digital content.  
We were able to bring back a fifth grade band and chorus program under the direction of our new music teacher, Mrs. 
Alice Daugherty.  The chorus delighted our veteran guests at the Veteran’s Day ceremony with their performance of an 
Armed Forces medley of the United States. There were 39 veteran guests, relatives of our students, who honored us with 
their presence on November 10th.  
Our assistant principal, Mr. John Palumbo, has led the staff in the effective implementation of both PBIS and restorative 
justice at Turkey Hill.  Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS) involves using evidence-based prevention and 
intervention practices to support academic, social, emotional and behavioral competence of all students.  THES has 
teamed with the Primary School to provide similar protocols and language about behavior expectations across all school 
areas, which are modeled and agreed upon with visual reminders throughout the school. 
Restorative justice focuses on mediation and agreement rather than punishment. It’s about accepting responsibility for 
harm and making restitution. Our focus has shifted from a penalty to “how can we make it right?”  Students have been 
remarkably engaged in offering apologies, cleaning up, and making appropriate amends. Staff also use incentive 
programs for struggling students to help manage challenging behaviors and develop their self-confidence and self-
esteem. 
From September to December, 2021 there were 83 discipline referrals and 7 suspensions.  From September to December, 
2022 there were 53 discipline referrals and 4 suspensions.  We attribute this impressive 36% decrease in referrals to the 
efforts of the staff to implement PBIS over the last two years. We have also noticed fewer repeat offenders as restorative 
justice is teaching students about accepting responsibility for their behavior.  
Our school’s success relies upon the combined and collaborative efforts of our wonderful staff, parents, and community 
members.  We continue to seek out opportunities to engage and effectively communicate with our families.  Turkey Hill 
may be a well-worn building, constructed in 1969, but it is also a well-loved and cared for community of students 
supported by parents, staff, and Lunenburg residents.  I am honored to serve as principal. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Heidi Champagne, Principal 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 112===
112 
 

===PAGE 113===
113 
Lunenburg Middle School 
 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support students’ 
social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated, creative, lifelong learner 
in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest communication.   The dedicated and 
accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the philosophy of educating the whole child 
academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by which all students become positive community 
members that possess the skills to be successful in high school and beyond. 
 Lunenburg Middle School is in its sixth year as a co-located middle - high school serving grades six through eight. 
Effective, student centered middle schools embrace interdisciplinary teams of teachers that enable teachers to work with 
smaller groups of students. Smaller groups of students allow teachers to learn and engage students in their preferred 
learning style, making them more confident and successful.  
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of different 
interests and talents through special areas and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities. One of our goals is for 
students to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue exploring as they move through high 
school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for students that foster critical thinking and problem 
solving skills that prepare them for high school and beyond or where their passion may lead them.  
August 2022 
With the return to a sense of normalcy at the beginning of the school year, we are fortunate to not have any mandated 
health or safety protocols associated with the global pandemic. We have identified that a large number of students 
suffered some type of “learning loss” during the course of the pandemic. This means students may not be functioning at 
grade level in the areas of ELA and Math.  
In order to combat this learning loss, LMS is utilizing the iReady  learning platform to provide an additional learning 
component in addition to classroom instruction.  iReady is being implemented during our intervention blocks and 
provides teachers with individualized learning paths based upon the students individual learning needs.  Parents will be 
provided fall, winter and spring benchmark assessments created by iReady so they too can monitor student progress.          
Lunenburg Middle School has benefited from a top-notch guidance support team that we have had in place since 2021. 
Two guidance counselors, a school social worker coupled with our shared school psychologist has been able to provide a 
level of social emotional support to our students and their families that we have not been accustomed to. Data supports 
the need for these positions as during the pandemic, the number of student’s experiencing anxiety and depression has 
significantly increased nationwide and in our own community. Our guidance team has been able to meet the needs of our 
students while preparing them to be available for academic learning. 
Our grade eight team of teachers continue to implement a schedule that mirrors the high school schedule. Our 
philosophy is to ease the difficult transition from middle school to the first year of high school by developing student’s 
independent skills they will require to be successful in high school. Grade eight teachers function as one inclusive team 
where students take classes with a variety of different teachers as they would in a high school setting. This differs from 
our two interdisciplinary team of teachers that have been a successful model in grades six and seven.    
Spring MCAS Score 
      % Meeting or Exceeding            % State Expectations                                 
Grade 6 ELA                            42                                              41                              
Grade 6 Math                         53                                              42 
Grade 7 ELA                            49                                              41 
Grade 7 Math                         43                                              37 
Grade 8 ELA                            40                                              42 
Grade 8 Math                         46                                              39 
Grade 8 Sci/Tech/Eng           64                                              42 
===PAGE 114===
114 
2022 Spring MCAS testing at LMS show the percentage of students who scored in the “ meeting or Exceeding” 
category and then the column next to it shows our scores in comparison with the state scores in schools who service 
similar grade levels. As you can see, even with the effects of the pandemic, LMS scores are above the state percentage 
in six out of the seven areas tested. In grade 8 Science Technology and Engineering our scores are over 20 points 
higher than the state average, an impressive number. We look forward to what 2023 scores will indicate after the 
specific interventions we have put in place for students to be successful. 
Athletics and clubs 
LMS successfully participated in middle school Field Hockey and Boys and Girls Cross Country and this winter we 
will continue with middle school basketball after many years of it being eliminated. The opportunities middle school 
sports provides to students to participate, learn and become part of an effective team atmosphere is immeasurable. 
Science Olympiad, Drama Club, Yearbook Club and middle school Student Government return as favorite activities 
for students to engage in. Student Government continues to provide opportunities for students to engage in age 
appropriate extracurricular activities like dances, spirit weeks and movie nights.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that ensure student 
success and promote a passion for lifelong learning. The key components to our success continue to be our talented 
faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community who support our teaching and 
learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learning. Together we continue to 
make the difference in the lives of students.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Tim Santry, Principal 
===PAGE 115===
115 
 
Lunenburg High School 
 
Lunenburg High School and its faculty continue to focus on rigorous curriculum, high standards and opportunities for 
students, both academic and extracurricular, so that every student feels supported and included in our community. LHS 
faculty strives to reflect on their teaching practices, to learn and to change in order to best serve all of our students.  
2022-2023 School year 
In August of 2022, Lunenburg High School was able to return to school without health and safety protocols due to the 
pandemic for the first time in two and a half years. Our entire school community did an outstanding job of educating 
students through the pandemic, our efforts now focus on identifying students who were struggling and providing 
educational services that would help them succeed in their high school careers and beyond.  
One of the components of that support was the addition of a LHS Intervention Teacher. This teaching position was 
created in order to provide direct instruction to students who were identified by their teachers as to needing additional 
support to be successful in the classroom. Students report to the Interventionist during their study skills block and 
receive assistance to the specific class or classes they are struggling in. The initial data collected as to the effectiveness 
of this position and the direct impact on students classroom grades and learning are remarkable.  
LHS also adopted an additional Algebra Essentials II class that was developed to ensure specific students were able to 
access the curriculum and state standards. Creating this additional class benefited all students, as it was able to reduce 
class sizes in Algebra II and allow teachers to provide more personalized, individualized instruction while working with 
smaller groups of students in a traditionally academically demanding course. 
The addition to the faculty and courses at Lunenburg High School have allowed students a more varied options for 
course selection, provided individualized and programmatic support and structure for students to be successful. LHS 
looks forward to reporting out on the difference in student learning these positions have made.  
MCAS RESULTS 
Lunenburg High School - Spring 2022 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
 
The results indicate the LHS percentage scores for meeting and exceeding expectations are high, over 10 percentage 
points higher than the state average when compared to schools who serve students in similar grade levels.  
We were also very pleased to learn that 29 students at Lunenburg High School received the state ’s John and Abigail 
Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose MCAS performance puts them at the top 25 
percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one exam and Proficient on the other, or 
Advanced on both the English and Math exams.     
 
 HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
Homecoming weekend was a wonderful event with beautiful weather and well attended by students, families and alumni. 
The parade was a huge success with the collection of candy the biggest hit with the children in town. Many community 
members noticed the care and time that were placed into the floats at each grade level.  The Blue Knights played well 
and were victorious in the football game and we always enjoy watching the LMS Marching Band perform.    
 
Lunenburg High School Athletic Accomplishments 
LHS had a fantastic fall athletic season.  Each one of our varsity teams made the MIAA state tournament. What was even 
more impressive than our team's records was the overall growth that was witnessed in each player and team respectively. 
 
Subject Test Exceeding Expectations / Meeting 
Expectations 
State Average (EE/ME) 
ELA 68% 58% 
Math 63% 50% 
      
===PAGE 116===
116 
 
Lunenburg Middle High School athletic department offers 11 teams that compete in the fall athletic season.  48% of high 
school students participated in at least one of those 11 offerings.  Our two middle school specific programs held roster 
sizes of 30 and 34, which was also great to see as we build those programs back for students. 
 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Girls Cross Country:  State 3B Champions; Mid Wach D champions; Qualified for Meet of Champions 
Boys Cross Country:  Qualified for Meet of Champions 
Football:  Mid Wach D Co-Champions; MIAA state playoffs round of 16; Dylan Adamson, T&G Superteam selection 
Girls Soccer:  MIAA state playoffs round of 16 
Boys Soccer:  MIAA state playoffs round of 32 
Field Hockey:  MIAA state playoffs round of 8; Mid Wach C league champions; Bethie Boone- League MVP and T&G 
superteam member. 
CURRICULUM 
Teachers and administrators continue to refine, revise and create curriculum that is aligned to the state frameworks and is 
rigorous and challenging. This year ’s focus is to work in vertical content area teams to ensure a smooth transition for 
students as they advance grade by grade. This process also ensures that students will have and build upon the educational 
skills that they will need to be successful in future grades. Scope and sequence maps have been created in order to assist 
in this grade level curriculum mapping.  
 
Lunenburg High School continues to provide a high quality education that ensures student success and promotes a 
passion for lifelong learning.  The key components to our success continue to be our talented faculty, our parents and our 
community members who support our teaching and learning. Most of all, our students who inspire us through their 
commitment to learning. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
Tim Santry, Principal 
===PAGE 117===
117 
2022 - 2023 LMHS Staff Roster 
 
 
     
Administration:   High School English: 
Santry, Tim - LMHS Principal   Callahan, Julia    DH 
McGrath, Rob - LMS Assistant Principal   Harmon, Paul 
Tousignant, Karma LHS Assistant Principal   Foyle, Mary 
Micu, Dave- LHS Assistant Principal   Burroughs. Erinanne 
Cooney, Tina - Admin. Secretary   Macuga, Tim 
Aro, Deb - HS Secretary   Estabrook, Mike 
Bowen, Mona - MS Secretary     
Fuller, Cortney - LMHS Office Clerk   High School World Language: 
    Jessica Beardmore DH 
Behaviorist:   Peggy Proctor 
Young, Mary   Yourk, Tammy 
    Radford, Lynn 
Health Office:   Heidi Hewitt 
Lavery, Lisa   High School     
Deborah Hansen (Middle & High LPN)     
Elizabeth Schatia - Middle School   High School History: 
    Stevenson, Warren    DH 
    Attorri, Hailee 
    Normandin, Tim 
Guidance:High School   Hausler, Bradford 
Thomann, Megan - Adjustment Counselor 9-
12     
Stolpinski, Erica - Counselor  9-12 (H-N)   High School Math: 
Berry, Katie - Guid. Sec. & LMHS Registrar   Miller, Jen             DH 
Dionne, Jeff - Counselor DH   9-12 (A-G)   Short, Eric 
Vigliatura, Olivia (Speech)   Cantatore, Andrew 
Shea, Lori (Psychologist)   Sabatini, Sarah 
    Lanpher, Jacob 
Social Workers & Interventionist:   Flaherty, Meaghan 
Canfield, Stacy (LHS Social Worker)     
Fletcher, Jen (LMS Social Worker)   High School Science: 
Arnold, Meghan (Interventionist)   Gearin, Dawn     DH 
    Bendler, Elizabeth 
Achieve:High School   Friedman, Mitch 
Collyer, Samantha   Pingsterhaus, Craig 
Malloy, John   Biery, Jen 
===PAGE 118===
118 
 
Special Ed. High School:   Hill, Bob 
Koziol, Josh    DH     
Foster, Todd (TLC) Theraputic Learning 
Center   Unified Arts:High School 
Walker, Jessica   Pukaite, Alexis 
Speck, Bryan   Guimond, Derek (PE) 
    Boone, Steve  (PE) 
   Barry, Scott (Art) 
Library:   Giuliani, Karyn (Art) 
Vallee, Pam   Wardwell, Caryn (Music) DH 
     
Brad McNamara & Hank (Therapy Dog)     
      
Athletic Director:     
Bigelow, Kevin - AD     
Steele, Darlene - AD Secretary     
      
Guidance: Middle School     
Ciullo, Jonathan     - All 7th & L-Z 8th   Specialists: Middle School 
Antaya, Katherine   - All 6th & A-K 8th   Therrien, Nicole (PE) 
Vigliatura, Olivia (Speech)   Matthew Marrazzo (PE) 
Shea, Lori (Psychologist)   Sheldon, Geoffrey (Music) MS 
Fletcher, Jen (LMS Social Worker)   Belair, Dana (Tech) MS 
Young, Mary (Behaviorist)   Warren, Robin (Art) MS 
    Vallee, Pam (Library) 
Health Office:     
Schatia, Elizabeth (nurse)     
Hansen, Deborah (LPN)     
    Special Ed. Middle School: 
Achieve: Middle School   Lizek, Maura  6th            DH 
Moore, Jamie   Klingler, Terry (para) 
Catalina, Christine (para)   Barone, Judy (para) 
Lind, Kirsten (para)   Miller, Khelsi (para) 
Sicard, Tricia (para)   Mobley, Melanie  7th 
    Sheehy, Sandra (para) 
Conklin, Christina   Caron, Darlene (para) 
Goode, Lauriana (para)   Strickland, Amy (para) 
Smith, Jenn (para)   Rolfe, Brenda 8th 
Miller, Tony (para)   Ulf, Maribeth (para) 
Taylor (Caggiano), Bryn (para)   Ross, Nick (para) 
      
===PAGE 119===
119 
 
6th Grade:   Technology IT: 
Arsenault, Beth            DH   Buiwit, Heather 
Clarke, Emily   LeBlanc, Chris 
Reardon, Susan     
Pouliot, Melanie   Cafeteria: 
Bassett, Kristine   John Terho 
    Jen Contoni 
7th Grade:   John Sharp 
Bertoni, Meagan   Eleni Tsiakalos 
Sheasgreen, Tim   Vanessa Cole 
Diamantopoulas, Krista        DH   Allison Clark 
Grebinar, Dawn     
Gardner, Andrea   Custodian: 
Rios, Jen   Sampson, Jeri 
    Rich Krafve 
8th Grade:   Tanner Cote 
Rooney, Nicole   Jeff Bigelow 
Cormier, Meredith   Paul Reddin 
Whitaker, Mary   Renee LaFontaine 
Sullivan, Martha                   DH     
Leblanc, Lisa     
Guerra, Will     
      
===PAGE 120===
120 
 

===PAGE 121===
121 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2021-2022 school year was my eighth year serving as School Principal at Monty Tech, 
and I am honored that it concluded with my appointment to a new role – that of 
Superintendent-Director.  Having been part of this remarkable educational community, 
developing a deep understanding of initiatives – both large and small – that are an integral 
part of our educational programs, and working with and learning from our outstanding 
faculty, staff and administrative team, has allowed for a successful transition into this new 
position.  I could not be more grateful for the encouraging and kind remarks I continue to 
receive from students and parents, faculty and staff, and the regional business community, 
whose support means so much to the Monty Tech family.  
 
With the effects of the pandemic still being felt, students and staff were encouraged to 
maintain health and safety standards learned in the previous year, but to also return to a new 
“normal.”  Daily in-person instruction, off -campus construction projects, and Skills competitions returned.  While the 
pandemic certainly brought questions, fears, and insecurities to the surface for many, it also provided instructional staff 
with opportunities to collaborate and develop new skills in infusing technology into daily lessons.  Monty Tech 
instructors worked tirelessly, with a new appreciation for instructional technology, to embed some of “what worked” into 
their daily, class instruction.  Collecting assignments via Google Classrooms, conducting quick learning assessments via 
apps like Quizizz or Kahoot, and assigning group learning projects using Google Slides and Docs, teachers resulted in a 
heightened level of student engagement. 
 
The regional workforce also seemed to find its footing in FY22, welcoming approximately 200 students into local shops 
and businesses to work and learn alongside industry professionals, through the school ’s long-standing co-op program.  
Another remarkable example of school -to-business collaboration was demonstrated when eight businesses submitted 
letters of support to Commonwealth Corporation on the school’s behalf.  Attesting to their belief in Monty Tech training 
programs, agreeing to interview program completers, and even highlighting Monty Tech graduates currently on staff, 
these letters were instrumental in the acquisition of a $600,000 grant award, which would provide no -cost training for 
young adults throughout our area.  Monty Tech understands the value of a vocation, and through the Career Technical 
Initiative, we have been able to extend training opportunities beyond the school day, helping a wide range of adults train 
for those high wage, high skills jobs that remained unfilled when the pandemic subsided. 
 
As the value of a vocational education becomes more evident, we have seen applications to attend Monty Tech on the 
rise.  While we understand that frustration that can come with not being admitted to a school of your choosing, we are 
challenging ourselves to work with local school leaders to establish practices and programs that will ensure as many 
students as possible are admitted from each sending community, and that all students who are interested in the school 
have an opportunity to visit and tour our campus.  Undoubtedly, a highlight of the 2021 -2022 school year was seeing all 
eighth grade students from Fitchburg Public Schools join our tour day event.   I look forward to further discussions and 
collaborations with area school leaders, so that we may establish innovative training programs that will serve those who 
want a vocational experience, but have not yet attended Monty Tech.   
 
I remain humbled and honored to lead such an outstanding organization, and thank you for your continued support.   
Respectfully submitted,  
 
 
 
Thomas R. Browne , Superintendent -Director 

===PAGE 122===
122 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is a four -year career and technical high school serving the member 
towns of: 
Barre   
Athol                     Fitchburg        Gardner                  
Harvard                 Holden            Hubbardston 
Lunenburg            Petersham        Phillipston             
Princeton              Royalston         Sterling 
Templeton            Westminster     Winchendon 
 

===PAGE 123===
123 
 
 
 
 
In an effort to develop a cost -effective budget for the fiscal year 2021 -2022, a great deal of effort was put forth by the 
School Committee, administration, and staff.   The final fiscal year 2021 -2022 Educational Plan totaled $28,605,425 
which represents a 0.73% decrease over the 2020 -2021 Educational Plan.  The District’s FY22 budget only exceeds the 
minimum spending required by Massachusetts General Law Chapter 70 by $203,320 or 0.78%. 
 To supplement the local budget, school officials pursue grant funding to provide valuable educational and social 
services to the diverse student population.  For fiscal year 2022, state and federal grant sources provided the school with 
$2,927,860.  Programs funded by these grants include: Elementary and Secondary Schools Emergency Relief Funds, 
Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services and Program Improvement, Title I Support, Perkins 
Occupational Education, Vocational Capital Equipment Initiatives, Life Sciences, Student Support and Academic 
Enrichment and Marine Corp Junior Reserve Officer Training. 
The District is participating in an annual financial audit, conducted by the accounting firm of Melanson, Heath and Co. 
from Greenfield, Massachusetts.  School officials anticipate a good report. 
Expenses for the 2021-2022 school year include: 
 
 

===PAGE 124===
124 
 
 
 
 
As vocational schools across the Commonwealth grow in popularity, and the value of vocational training becomes more 
evident, we have seen a steady increase in the 
number of students applying for admission to 
Monty Tech. 
With seats available limited only by our 
building capacity, and a deep understanding 
of the increasing demand, school leaders 
continue to work with area school and 
business leaders to develop and expand 
programs to address this concern.  Whether 
these new programs are offered in the 
evening through the School of Continuing 
Education, or even during the traditional 
school day, our goal is to expand access so 
that students who hope to enter the workforce 
may do so with a set of valuable skills and 
industry-recognized credentials that will 
make them more employable, and better equipped to grow and learn in the occupation of their choosing. 
While Monty Tech continues to ensure that students are job ready immediately after graduation, not all students who 
graduate from Monty Tech choose to enter the workforce upon completion.  In fact, several of the school ’s vocational 
training programs prepare students for advanced education and training in high -wage, high-skill careers in engineering, 
allied health, business, education and computer sciences that demand a bachelor ’s and even master’s degree.  As such, it 
is imperative that the school also prepare those students for college level coursework.   
Students who attend Monty Tech must successfully complete all of the same academic requirements that students in 
comprehensive high schools complete, but at Monty Tech, students are only in academic classes every other week.  
Many students may find adjusting to this week on – week off schedule challenging, but it is this same schedule that 
provides Monty Tech students with time to explore and learn in a chosen vocational program at a deeper level.  Whether 
running the school ’s on -site, full -service restaurant, operating the School Store, building a home for Habitat for 
Humanity, or performing community services across our sending communities, Monty Tech students are developing 
technical skills, while also learning critical time management and study skills.  We are confident that whether our 
graduates choose to pursue college or career pathways, they are prepared for what lies ahead. 
 
 

===PAGE 125===
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the spring of 2022, 10th grade students took the Next Generation MCAS examination in English Language Arts, 
Mathematics, and Biology.  In addition, select 9th graders also sat for the Next Generation MCAS Biology exam.  
Students performed well across all subject areas, with a passing rate of 100% in English Language Arts,  97% in 
Mathematics, and 97% in Biology. 
While Monty Tech is certainly known for its strong vocational training programs, its academic programs continue to 
evolve to prepare graduates for diverse and challenging college and career pathways, and are widely known to 
effectively prepare students at all levels to reach their goals.  A focus in recent years has been the incorporation of new 
and updated materials and coursework to expand STEM opportunities for students.  In FY22, Monty Tech applied for a 
Massachusetts Life Science Center grant, developed in collaboration with our post -secondary partners at Fitchburg State 
University.  Using the $110,000 award, Monty Tech instructors will work collaboratively to align course expectations 
with FSU’s Anatomy & Physiology class, laying a foundation for a first-ever articulation agreement with FSU.   
Instructors look forward to participating in curriculum development activities at the University, and will attend related, 
immersive professional development programs to build capacity and collect/share valuable expertise from colleagues.  
Additionally, when the proposed agreement (Dual Enrollment or Articulation) is finalized, students who successfully 
complete the course will earn 4 college credits, saving them time and as much as $1,900 as they consider pursuing 
STEM college pathways. 
Monty Tech students also benefitted from the establishment of another new science course in FY22, Microbiology.  
Instructors developed the new curriculum and travelled to Texas to participate in the National Science Teaching 
Association Annual Conference, while school officials renovated a science lab to replicate a biomedical facility.  All new 
course materials, equipment and technology was purchased and the addition of a valuable STEM opportunity has been a 
welcome addition to an already rigorous science program. 
In May of 2022, 120 students participated in AP Exams. Those 120 students took 162 AP Exams collectively. An 
impressive 82 of the 120 students were eligible to receive college credit for qualifying scores of 3+. That is a 68.33% 
pass rate, which is higher than the global average and a significant increase from the previous school year. 
Additionally, to support the expansion of AP course offerings, three instructors completed the training to teach AP 
Seminar during the summer of 2022. AP Seminar is now offered as a co -taught elective course for juniors. As an 
extension of AP Seminar, instructors will be trained to teach AP Research during the summer of 2023. Together, AP 
Seminar and AP Capstone will allow MT students to qualify for the AP Capstone designation upon graduation. Students 
who earn the AP Capstone designation are highly qualifi ed for college success, and thus, more likely to gain admission 
into competitive colleges and universities.  
 
 
  2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 
Total AP Students 95 113 106 142 120 
Number of Exams 134 148 146 189 162 
AP Students with Scores 3+ 46 69 75 61 82 
% of Total AP Students with Scores 3+ 48.42% 61.06% 70.75% 42.96% 68.33% 
===PAGE 126===
126 
 
 
 
 
While students and staff at Monty Tech have always known the value of a vocational education, it may have taken a 
pandemic and the return to in -person learning in 2022 to be reminded of the significance and benefit of hands -on 
learning.   
Students and staff across the twenty -one different vocational -technical education programs gladly returned to the 
important work of building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service vehicles, making walkways 
more accessible, and performing countless community services.  The school restaurant reopened, and cosmetology 
students once again demonstrated their talents on live clientele.  The 2021 -2022 school year was a busy one for our 
vocational educators, as each trade aimed to provide practical, hands -on learning experiences for our students, while 
helping to improve each of the eighteen member communities. 
Advanced Manufacturing :  Advanced Manufacturing aligns the revised frameworks with local workforce needs, job 
titles and qualifications, and assists in a better job placement for qualified 
students and program graduates. Six Junior students completed the NC3 PMI 6 
Certification, and now have 6 stackable credentials in Precision Measuring 
Instruments.  All 16 sophomores passed MACWIC level 1, while all Freshman 
students successfully completed safety training, earning an OSHA 10 -hour 
general industry certification.  Students and instructors completed many projects 
for the community which includes the New England Mountain Bike Association, 
and the Town of Barre. Six Seniors and five Juniors earned co -op placements, 
working and learning in area machine shops.  (Total student enrollment: 51) 
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology :  Monty Tech Auto Body students 
earned valuable industry credentials in the 2021 -2022 School year. Students 
earned the OSHA 10 -hour general industry card, EPA 6H spray certification, I -
Car Pro Level One in Refinishing, and I -Car Pro Level One in Non -Structural 
Repair.  Three Seniors and three Juniors earned co -op placements, and were 
reported to be valuable contributors in local repairs shops in the area.  Two 
Seniors won medals at SkillsUSA, a bronze medal and a gold medal for 
refinishing, with the gold medal winner advancing to the state competition.  Students enjoyed a variety of community 
service projects, to include repairing and painting a SUV for the Gardner Police Department, and painting a sign bracket 
for the Town of Petersham Cemetery.   (Total student enrollment: 62) 
Automotive Technology: Sixteen Automotive Technology students earned their NC3/Snap On 525F Digital Multimeter 
certification. These industry-recognized credentials will enhance the students' level of competency within the automotive 
industry for years to come.  Four students qualified for the SkillsUSA district competition, where they earned 1st, 2nd, 4th 
and 7th place distinctions.  Eight Seniors & four Junior students earned co -op placements, while those who remained at 
the campus continued to perform a variety of repairs that included transmission replacements, intake manifolds, brake 
work, and various other technical repairs, demonstrating technical skills that are required for any service technician in 
our area.  (Total student enrollment: 65) 
Business Technology:  Throughout the 2021-2022 school year, students in Monty Tech ’s Business Technology program 
benefitted from a collaboration with Workers Credit Union and participation in the institution ’s financial literacy 
program. The opportunity to participate in these workshops has been met with great enthusiasm from students, who 
completed nine modules and earned a financial literacy certificate.   Instructors  continue to work closely with post -
secondary colleagues to refine and develop new articulation agreements. A recently renewed agreement with Mount 
Wachusett Community College provides qualified students with 21 college credits at no cost to the student.  A total of 
seven students placed at the SkillsUSA district level competitions, earning distinctions in the Computer Office 
Applications and Customer Service competitions.  Additionally, six Seniors and three Juniors earned co -op placements 
during the 2021 -2022 school year, working and learning in a variety of businesses across the region.  (Total student 
enrollment: 52) 
Cabinetmaking:  Monty Tech Cabinetmaking students are called upon for a number of projects small and large, across 
the campus and beyond.   During the 2021 -2022 school year, students completed projects that included: a kitchen 
remodel for the Summer Street Fitchburg Fire Department, building four red oak bookcases for the children's section of 
the Phillip's Free Public Library, constructing baseball racks for the Sterling Little  League program,  and using the 
program’s state-of-the-art CNC machine to cut ten custom signs for the Petersham Cemetery.   

===PAGE 127===
127 
Students also worked to design, manufacture and assemble 450 gifts for the return to the Superintendent's dinner.  Items 
such as cutting boards, cherry benches, sets of corn hole boards, candle displays and custom lazy Susans were 
handcrafted by talented students, and sold to raise funds for the student scholarship program.  Ten Seniors & eight 
Juniors earned co-op placements, representing the program so well. Sophomores completed OSHA Construction 10 hour 
course, while Freshmen completed the OSHA Careersafe 10 hour online course. (Total student enrollment: 63) 
CAD/Drafting & Design :  In 2021 -2022, four Monty Tech CAD/Drafting & Design Senior students and two Juniors 
earned coveted co -op placements.  CAD students at all levels earned a number of valuable industry -recognized 
certifications including AutoCAD, Inventor, Revit, and Solidworks, while Freshmen students completed the 10 hour 
OSHA CareerSafe Online course.  The shop completed a variety of customer requests, including signs, banners, and 
posters for school personnel and local non -profit organizations.  Two Junior students participated in SkillsUSA, and 
competed in the area of Laser Engraving.  They performed quite well, earning a gold medal for their detailed work.  
(Total student enrollment: 63) 
Cosmetology:  The Monty Tech Cosmetology program is a rigorous, state -
approved program, that provides students with countless opportunities to refine 
their cosmetology skills on clientele who understand and appreciate the learning 
environment.  During the 2021 -2022, clients were allowed to come back to the 
Salon.  The Senior class completed eighteen trade specific certifications taught by 
distinguished artists from across the globe through BehindtheChair.com.   Program 
instructors continue to work with post -secondary colleagues, to develop new and 
maintain existing articulation agreements that will grant qualified students with 
college credits, should they choose to pursue additional education when they leave 
Monty Tech.   Seventeen of the program ’s Seniors earned their cosmetology 
licenses, and two Seniors enjoyed working in local salons through the school ’s co-
op program, which proved to be extremely beneficial to their training and skill 
development.  (Total student enrollment: 85) 
Culinary Arts:  Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and instructors operate a full -service restaurant and bakery, serving 
approximately 100 patrons daily.  2021-2022 proved to be a busy year for Culinary Arts students, who were called upon 
to bake cookies for the highly anticipated sale of Holiday Cookie Kits.  Students baked and packaged more than  2,500 
cookies and 600 bags of colored icing to support this fundraising endeavor.  All 
proceeds benefited the Monty Tech student scholarship fund.  Instructors continue 
to instill the importance of community service, working with students to cater a 
special event for the Ryan Patrick Jones Foundation, held at nearby Westminster 
Senior Center. The program also donated leftover baked goods to Our Father's 
House in Fitchburg throughout the school year. While building technical skill 
proficiency and customer service skills, students also had an opportunity to earn 
ServSafe Certifications and OSHA 10 hour Culinary certifications. (Total student 
enrollment: 67) 
Dental Assisting:   Monty Tech Dental Assisting instructors continue to emphasize 
the need for students to earn valuable industry-recognized credentials, as a means to 
demonstrate technical skill and proficiency.   As a result, all students work and 
prepare for Dental Assisting National Board (DANB) certification exams.  In 2021-
2022, 93% of students passed the DANB Infection Control exam, and 100% passed 
the DANB Radiology exam.   These outstanding pass rates are a true testament to 
the high quality instruction in the Monty Tech Dental Assisting program, and something the school continues to be so 
proud of.  A total of nine Seniors earned co -op placements, while the remaining Juniors and Seniors earned experience 
through affiliation/externship opportunities in area dental clinics and offices. All Seniors & Sophomores received the 
American Red Cross  for Basic Life Support CPR/AED certification. Through the Community Health Connections 
Caring for Kids Program, Monty Tech students qualified to receive free dental cleaning, radiographs, and sealants, and 
Dental Assisting students were invited to assist in selected procedures.  This chairside experience, working with area 
practitioners, continues to be a highlight for students enrolled in the rigorous program.  (Total student enrollment: 57) 
Early Childhood Education:  Students enrolled in the Monty Tech Early Childhood Education program benefit from an 
on-site daycare facility that allows them to work with trained professionals and young children throughout the day.  
Working with and caring for young children requires students to demonstrate caring and compassion, as well as a 
working knowledge of child development theory and practice.  To that end, instructors have designed a curriculum that 
is infused with opportunities to earn meaningful credentials that include:  Department of Early Education & Care Strong 
Start Training, American Red Cross First Aid and CPR training and certification, and the National Child Development 
Associate Teacher Certification.  Nine Seniors and one Junior earned co-op placements, gaining valuable experience 

