===PAGE 128===
128 
working with young children in local child care centers, while two additional Seniors and twelve Juniors gained 
experience at local affiliation sites. (Total student enrollment: 48) 
Electrical: Throughout 2021 -2022, students and instructors in the Monty Tech Electrical program wired numerous 
machines, equipment, computers, and lights throughout the school. Twelve Seniors & eight Juniors earned co -op 
placements, which allowed them to gain important on -the-job skills and additional 
training in the industry. With guidance from program instructors, students wired the 
Habitat for Humanity house in Hubbardston, wired an air conditioning system for 
the Leominster State Police  barracks, and also added emergency lighting wall 
units for the Mason’s Lodge in Barre, MA.  A testament to the quality instruction 
and popularity of the program, the Freshman class filled with 24 first choice 
students, and all successfully completed the 10 -hour OSHA training and 
certification.  (Total student enrollment: 93) 
Engineering Technology:  The Engineering Technology program at Monty Tech is a 
rigorous program, infused with a nationally certified curriculum provided by Project 
Lead the Way, and countless hands -on learning opportunities that provide students 
with opportunities to demonstrate creativity, make connections with prior learning, 
and earn college credits.  The shop layout has changed to allow for more bench work 
and hands-on activities, and a designated automation and 3 -d printing lab area has 
been created.  Students were recently introduced to the Amatrol software curriculum, which supports all areas of the 
Massachusetts Chapter 74 Engineering Technology Frameworks. Seven students were employed by area businesses, and 
all Freshmen completed the OSHA 10 -hour general industry training and certification program.   (Total student 
enrollment: 62) 
 Graphic Communications: Throughout the 2021 -2022 school year, students in the Graphic Communications program 
produced numerous projects for district cities and towns, and a variety of non -profit organizations within the 
district.  Five Seniors and one Junior earned co -op placements, which allowed them to continue their on -the-job training 
in a real-world work setting.  Graphics students consistently perform well at SkillsUSA competitions, and the 2021-2022 
school year was no exception.   Two students traveled to the National SkillsUSA competition, having won the state gold 
medal in State Pin Design and Graphics Sublimation.   The Printing Industries of New England also recognized Monty 
Tech talent, awarding more than 40 students with awards and scholarship funds, making post -secondary aspirations a 
reality for several of our most talented students.  (Total student enrollment: 84) 
Health Occupations: The Health Occupations program continues to be one of the more competitive programs at Monty 
Tech, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and 
practice, balanced by hands -on learning opportunities in the on -site Sim Lab and 
through the use of state -of-the-art Anatomage technology.  Phlebotomy lessons and 
hands-on applications were introduced to students in their Senior year of study, only 
adding to an already impressive array of skills and knowledge.  Fifteen Seniors were 
partnered with area clinics, through the school ’s co -op program, where they 
continued to learn and flourish in their chosen field, while back on campus, 
underclassmen focused on achieving important industry -recognized credentials.  
Twenty-four students passed their Clinical Medical Assistant exam, and became 
nationally certified medical assistants. Twenty-two students passed their Nurse Aide 
Exam, and another thirteen students passed the Home Health Aide certification 
exam.  One talented student earned a gold medal in Basic Health at the SkillsUSA 
state competition, and qualified to participate in the national competition.  (Total 
student enrollment: 108) 
House Carpentry:  The Monty Tech House Carpentry program completed a number 
of projects, large and small during this 2021 -2022 school year.  Sophomores completed a trail map kiosk for 
conservation land in Barre, and ten island flower boxes for the Fitchburg East Rotary Club.  Juniors and Seniors worked 
with instructors to complete the annual building project – a single family residence for Habitat for Humanity in Athol, 
where students completed interior trim and flooring materials, installed the kitchen and bathroom cabinets and exterior 
porch details. Students and instructors also completed the work for the Hubbardston Habitat for Humanity single   family 
residence that was started but not finished in the previous school year.  Local charitable organizations often request 
donations from the House Carpentry department, and students gladly construct and finish countless Adirondack chairs to 
support the various fundraising efforts.  Three Seniors and one Junior  participated in the co -op program, and enjoyed 
their time working and learning from industry professionals.  All Sophomores successfully completed training and 
received OSHA 10 hour Construction certifications. (Total student enrollment: 59) 
  

===PAGE 129===
129 
HVAC & Property Maintenance :  In 2021-2022, Monty Tech HVAC & Property Maintenance  students and instructors 
were called upon to do some work at the Leominster State Police Barracks, where they installed a Variable Refrigerant 
Flow heat pump, making the facility much more comfortable for officers and staff.  Additional requests for support were 
honored, to include building a new shed at Quabbin Regional High School in Barre, and remodeling a shed located at the 
Barre Transfer Station.   Ten Seniors and one Junior earned co -op placements in area businesses, where they 
demonstrated the broad spectrum of skills they have acquired in this comprehensive training program.  All Seniors 
received Mega Press Certificates, while all Juniors and Seniors successfully earned the EPA 608 Refrigerant 
Certification and Hot Works Certification.  All Freshmen completed the OSHA 10 hour General Industry certification, 
while Sophomore students also completed the OSHA 10 hour Construction certification.  These industry -recognized 
credentials are a testimony to the students’ skills and understanding of safety practices, and may aid in their employment 
efforts upon graduation.  (Total student enrollment: 57) 
Information Technology:  The Information Technology program continues to offer 
students opportunities to earn a wide range of industry -recognized certifications 
that affirm the technical skill proficiency needed for entry -level careers in 
networking and information technology.   In 2021-2022, all Freshmen completed 
the OSHA 10-hour General Industry training. Sophomore students passed the Test
-out PC Pro Certificate exam, the Cisco IT Essential course for computer repair 
and maintenance, and the Introduction to Networking course. All Juniors 
completed the CIW Web Curriculum, and Seniors completed the Cisco Python 
Programming curriculum.   Four seniors qualified for the AP Computer Science 
Principles exam; three sat for the examination, and one earned a score of 3, 
earning college credits for his performance.  Juniors in the program participated 
and did quite well in the Cyberpatriot and CyberStart America cybersecurity 
competitions.  One team achieved 1st place and advanced to the National 
semifinals. Two Seniors and two Juniors were on co -op placements during the 
year, applying their technical skills in area businesses.  In total, approximately 100 
hours of technical support were completed at the program ’s Help Desk, where students worked on hardware and 
software troubleshooting on desktops, laptops, printers, and mobile devices. (Total student enrollment: 41) 
Masonry:  The talents of Monty Tech Masonry students are on display throughout 
district communities, as numerous projects that were completed during the 2021 -
2022 school year, including constructing scaffolding at the Habitat for Humanity 
house in Hubbardston, and constructing a block and brick boundary wall with 
decorative iron panels at the Fay Club in Fitchburg. Students and instructors 
worked to improve the school ’s 50 year old campus, patching and repairing 
sidewalks and stairs to ensure a safe environment for students, staff and guests.  
Sophomores received their 10 hour OSHA Construction certification, and 
Freshmen completed the 10 hour General Industry certification.  Four Seniors 
earned co -op placements, and continued to refine their skills working with 
industry experts.  The school ’s co-op program is an important example of school -
to-business partnerships that help build a stronger workforce in our region, and the 
Monty Tech Masonry instructors remain grateful for their industry supporters.  
(Total student enrollment: 47) 
Plumbing:  During the 2021-2022 school year, Students and instructors completed 
the single family house building project, working with Habitat for Humanity in Athol.  Students and instructors also 
began rough plumbing for the Habitat for Humanity single family home in Hubbardston.  Juniors successfully completed 
their Hot Works safety training and earned that important credential.   Freshmen also completed the 10 -hour OSHA 
General Industry safety training, while Sophomore students completed the 10 -hour OSHA Construction safety training 
and certification.  Nine Seniors and three Juniors earned co -op placements, which allowed them to continue to grow in 
the trade, working with plumbing professionals in the area.   Sophomores and Seniors were trained in Viega PEX/copper 
press, earning another valuable certification.   One Senior earned the Plumbing All Star Award given by the Plumbing, 
Heating, and Cooling Contractors Association of Massachusetts; he was also awarded a scholarship for his continuing 
education.  Another talented Senior was awarded the Central Mass Plumbing & Gas Inspectors Association Scholarship 
to assist his continued education, as well.  (Total student enrollment: 69)  
Veterinary Science:  The 2021-2022 school year marked important progress for the school ’s on-site Veterinary Clinic.  
The clinic was open 5 days/week, every week for the first time since opening in 2019.  There was a 3-4 week waitlist for 
appointments and a 2 -3 month waitlist for surgeries.   A number of fourth year Tufts veterinary students completed an 
elective rotation at the school ’s clinic, providing additional support and opportunities for our students to engage with 
young adults pursuing a degree and career in the veterinary sciences.  

===PAGE 130===
130 
Twenty-two Seniors earned the Certified Veterinary Assistant certification, and all 
Juniors and Seniors achieved Fear Free Level 1 and Animal CPR Basic Life 
Support Certification.  Seven Seniors and five Juniors were working and learning in 
area clinics, through the school’s co-op program.  Three Juniors earned gold medals 
at the SkillsUSA district competitions, and advanced to the state level to represent 
the school and program in the Open Job Skills and Extemporaneous Speaking 
competitions.  All Freshmen completed the OSHA 10 hour Healthcare training and 
certification.   At the year’s end, students and staff recorded 700 patient visits, and 
135 new clients seeking services – a strong testament to the value this clinic has 
brought to the community.    (Total student enrollment: 85) 
 
Welding/Metal Fabrication:   The Welding/Metal Fabrication Department 
completed several individual projects for residents of our Monty Tech Community 
and has also performed numerous projects around the school.  Multiple fire pits were fabricated and donated to various 
organizations in our community, such as the Monty Tech Foundation, Nashoba 
Valley Chamber of Commerce, and SkillsUSA, supporting their fundraising 
efforts.  The students designed, fabricated, and welded eight rod iron sign 
brackets for the Petersham Cemetery Committee and modified seventeen railings 
to accommodate the retaining wall at the Fay Club in Fitchburg.  The finished 
product is something students and staff remain quite proud of.  Six Seniors  and 
five Juniors participated in the school ’s co-op program, earning entry level jobs 
in area welding and fabrication shops.  Freshmen completed the OSHA 10 -hour 
General Industry certification program, while Juniors completed the Hot Works 
training and certification, and all students completed the OSHA 10 -hour 
Construction certification. Six Seniors participated in the Notch Mechanical 
Constructor Pipe Welding Challenge and performed exceptionally well.  
Instructors proudly report that Seniors qualified for the AWS D1.1 Structural 
Welding Code Qualification Test. (Total student enrollment: 59)  
 
 
 
 
 
The Monty Tech Cooperative Education Program is an extension  of the student ’s technical education that combines 
classroom instruction  with on-the-job-training.  The popular Co-op Program provides students with an opportunity to 
further develop academic, technical and employability skills in an industry -related work environment. All students are 
eligible to participate in  the Co-op Program, provided they satisfy state and school  grade, attendance and performance 
requirements, and all Co-op students have completed the OSHA recognized  Career Safe online health and safety  course 
prior to being placed in a work environment. 
 
The Cooperative Education Program is beneficial for both student  and employer.  For the student, it is a chance to gain 
on-the-job training that improves both their technical proficiency and employability skills, and making industry 
connections enhances post-graduate employment opportunities.  The Co -op Program also allows students to earn while 
they learn, which has allowed many students to learn valuable life skills, financial literacy skills, and gain a deeper 
understanding of the importance of career advancement and self-advocacy. 
 
Employer benefits include addressing workforce needs in an efficient manner. Co-op students provide a pool of trained talent, 
ready to assume temporary, part-time or even full-time opportunities, thus reducing employer training costs.   Co-op work hours may 
also be tailored to suit the needs of partnering employers. 
 
In 2021-2022, the school saw a return to the workplace, and significant increases in the number of students placed in this 
valuable training program.  With approximately 100 area employers participating in Cooperative Education, providing 
valuable experience to almost 200 students by the end of the 2021 -2022 school year, school officials remain grateful for 
their continued support, and look forward to future collaborations.     
 

===PAGE 131===
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given the exciting news that schools could return to ‘normal’ during the 2021 -2022 school year, the Department of 
Student Support Services focused its efforts on students ’ social and emotional wellness. Defining a new normal and 
providing structured supports to students as they acclimated to the demands, pace and rigor of academics, vocational 
programming and extracurricular activities was a top priority.   Staff reflected on student data, strengthened community 
partnerships, implemented new initiatives and expanded on the level of tiered supports offered to our student population.  
The department continued its important mission to break the stigma of mental health, knowing that everyone adjusts 
differently and handles stress in various ways. This unified approach, support, and collaboration helped our student body 
display resilience, grow individually, and meet success.       
At Monty Tech, we understand that everyone will require help at some point; that as individuals we all have strengths 
and weaknesses, and as a result, we strive to implement thoughtful tiered services that promote a feeling of comfort for 
students when accessing this support.  In addition to the department ’s current school-based counseling services, Monty 
Tech and LUK, Inc. collaborated throughout 2021 -2022 with the Department of Public Health to provide services to at -
risk students and their families.   The district also partnered with LUK to create a direct pipeline for telehealth referrals 
and increased access to counseling supports.   Programs such as the HOPE Squad; a peer to peer suicide prevention 
program, Project AMP; a program to address prevention of substance use among youth ages 13-17, and Students Taking 
A New Direction (STAND); a program to support students displaying at-risk behaviors have all been implemented.   
The Department of Student Support Services has taken the necessary measures to ensure Social Emotional Learning 
(SEL) is in the forefront of conversations when supporting students as they acclimate to returning to school full time 
after lengthy periods of time away.  Courses and activities designed to promote mindfulness, understanding, and social 
emotional wellness are part of the many course offerings.   Yoga and Meditative Art, Visual Arts, Directed Studies with 
Social Emotional Learning lessons are all part of the efforts being implemented to ensure we address the needs of all 
students and support their individual growth and development in a post pandemic world.      
During the 2021 -2022 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District provided specialized 
services to approximately three hundred students – measuring progress of over two hundred students on Individual 
Education Plans (IEPs) and approximately one hundred students adhering to individualized Section 504 plans.  While the 
Student Support Services Department encompasses special education, the department provides support and is available 
to all Monty Tech students. 

===PAGE 132===
132 
The Student Support Services department includes a full -time nursing staff that continues to respond to COVID 
concerns, administers medications, performs state -mandated health screening exams, and provides, when necessary, 
health information to the special education team for a student ’s IEP meetings.  The department benefits from a full-time 
school social worker that participates in departmental meetings and assists students who have needs concerning finances, 
family issues, homelessness, maternity, health issues, proper food and clothing, and military status deployments.  The 
school is also fortunate to have on staff a full -time psychologist, who evaluates all students referred for an initial 
evaluation or who may require a three -year re-evaluation.  In addition, we have a full -time speech language pathologist, 
available to assist students with disabilities, assess these students and consult with teachers.   Finally, our students also 
have access to the services of a full -time adjustment counselor and part -time school psychologist.   All of these 
individuals are available for scheduled counseling sessions, mental health emergency treatment, medical/mental health re
-entry and transition support services, as well as crisis intervention. 
The school’s Director of Student Support Services oversees the District’s Special Education Program, which is reviewed 
annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements.   The comprehensive review and evaluation are done in 
collaboration with the Special Education Parent Advisory Council (SEPAC), and the results are used to improve the 
special education procedures and programs in place at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School.  The district 
will be working with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) during the 2022 -2023 to review 
all special education services, timelines, and programs.   
 
 
 
The 2021-2022 school year was a welcome return to normalcy at Monty Tech, relieving the Technology Department of 
the challenges presented by hybrid and remote instruction and learning that was necessary in previous years.  That also 
meant the department could focus its attention on vetting, selecting and beginning the migration to a new Student 
Information System.  Technology specialists led this complex effort, moving away from Aspen X2 and into 
Powerschool, which is expected to be a more user -friendly platform, serving 
students, parents and teachers more efficiently.  In addition, the school implemented 
Performance Matters, a software program that will track and analyze student 
outcomes.  By targeting student achievement and areas of concerns, teachers will be 
able to immediately address challenges students are facing and offer remediation.   
Across the school, students were provided with updated technology to improve 
vocational training.  The Business Technology program received new computers 
with updated software for their students ’ use.  Students and instructors in the 
school’s CAD/Drafting Technology program also received robust new computers 
and associated software, and the school ’s busy Graphic Communications 
department received long -awaited, high capacity copiers, so that their older 
machines could be redistributed for teacher use throughout the campus. 
Finally, the school invested in a Dell EMC Virtual  server solution.  This advanced 
technology can handle the work of twenty -one physical servers, placing them into 
four much more efficient nodes. These new nodes can handle up to seventy -five servers, so there is room for expansion 
as the school’s technology needs grow in future years.   
Monty Tech students continue to benefit from a 1:1 Chromebook initiative, as the school is in its 6 th year of providing 
every student with their own device.  While the effects of the pandemic may have declined, lessons learned remain.  
Instructors who found that communicating with students through Google Classroom or Schoology continue to post 
lessons, collect assignments, and even offer assessments via this tool.  Throughout the 2021 -2022 school year, the 
Technology Department continued to support the additional use of this technology, spending countless hours during the 
school year upgrading the network and increasing the bandwidth coming into the school to sustain video and audio 
conferencing, and increased network traffic.   
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 133===
133 
 
 
 
 
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) remains 
one of the school ’s most worthwhile and engaging programs available to its students.  This 
outstanding leadership program, based on the foundations of instilling a value of citizenship, 
service to the United States, personal responsibility, and a sense of accomplishment, provides 
students with countless opportunities to serve as ambassadors in their communities, through the 
routine demonstration of student leadership development, volunteerism, perseverance, and 
dedication. 
During the 2021 - 2022 school year, MCJROTC Cadets participated in more than 2000 hours of community service and 
volunteerism.  Cadets assisted the Salvation Army by collecting more than $25,000 in donations, which provided aid to 
countless families in need during the holiday season.   
The Monty Tech MCJROTC cadets were actively involved in the Royalston Police Fair, providing assistance to local 
vendors, the police department and community residents with the setup and 
breakdown of this popular event.  This annual event raised more than $4,500 to 
support the Police Reform Act.   
Our cadets also enjoyed service at the Wachusett Brewery -Rock & Roll 5K in 
Westminster, MA, where they helped raise funds for the NEADS Organization.  
NEADS trains service dogs for individuals with mental and physical disabilities, 
many of whom are veterans.  To ensure this program was a success, cadets 
assisted with parking and traffic control for the runners, and assisted vendors with 
setup and tear down. 
Another community event that was a highlight for our students was the Annual 
Blacksmith Festival in Fitchburg MA. Monty Tech cadets assisted competitors 
and vendors, and while doing so, learned a great deal about community 
volunteerism and the craft of blacksmithing as a fine art. 
Each year, we ask our school community to consider families who may not have a 
bountiful, healthy meal to look forward to during the holidays.  In 2021, we were 
humbled by an outpouring of donations, which allowed our cadets to assemble 
more than 100 Thanksgiving and Christmas baskets to be distributed to deserving families in the Monty Tech 
Community. 
While service to others and supporting community events are an essential part of our program, the Monty Tech cadets 
report a special feeling of pride when assisting with local color guards and participating in community parades.  In 2021-
2022, these special events were numerous, with as many as nine color guards local civic and veteran ceremonies, which 
are always a highlight for students and instructors alike. 
As our students learn the importance of giving back today, it is also important that they learn our history.  To that end, 
150 cadets travelled to Boston to walk the freedom trail, visit Faneuil Hall and learn more about our American history.  
Finally, during the summer of 2022, 60 cadets participated in team building skills, leadership development and physical 
fitness at Prince William Forest in Triangle, VA.  They learned about the history of the Marine Corps as well as 
American flight history by visiting the Marine Corps Museum, and the Dulles Air and Space Museum.  Cadets also 
travelled to the Marine Corps Base Quantico, where they received a class on Marine Corps and Foreign weapons from 
the Marine Corps Weapons Training Battalion Staff.  It wasn ’t all work, though.  Our outstanding cadets enjoy ed the 
experience of water rafting, zip lining and a celebratory banquet to wrap the memorable week. 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 134===
134 
 
 
 
 
The Monty Tech School of Continuing Education had an exciting FY22, receiving more than $600,000 in training 
grants.  School leaders applied for and received a generous Career Technical Initiative Grant, which provided the 
funding needed to rollout new training programs, offered to qualified unemployed or underemployed participants at no 
charge.  
New training programs in Welding and HVAC were developed and saw their first cohort enroll.  Students completed 250 
hours of training, both in person and virtual, and left with  industry-recognized credentials that include Hot Work 
Certification, OSHA 10 Hour Certification, and an American Welding Society (AWS) Endorsement. Upon completion, 
students were assisted, in partnership with MassHire North Central Career Center, in job placement. 
As we continue to monitor workforce needs and skills gaps, the School of Continuing Education works closely with the 
MassHire North Central Career Center to determine specific training programs that are most in -demand.  Our 
overarching goal to support the North Central Massachusetts workforce readiness pipeline with an increase in career and 
licensure courses is evident in new programs that are developed, existing programs that are refined and in traditional 
journeyman/apprenticeship programs that remain a hallmark of our institution.  
Many other career-track students were eager to return in-person instruction. The popular Cosmetology program was able 
to reopen their nighttime salon, providing services to clientele during the 
evening hours, while electrical and plumbing programs were able to resume, 
and students were back in the classroom, learning from experienced and 
licensed professionals.  
A large medical professional shortage arose in the workforce, due to the 
pandemic.  As a result, graduates from our evening medical programs continue 
to be in high demand.  Valuable training programs like Certified Phlebotomy 
Technician, Certified Clinical Medical Assistant, Certified EKG Technician, 
Certified Nurse Aide  and Certified Home Health Aide, are able to help close 
noted workforce shortages. With state recognized and nationally recognized 
credentials, Monty Tech students are prepared and ready to join the regional 
workforce.  
 
Serving more than 1,000 community members annually, the Monty Tech 
School of Continuing Education strives to provide an accessible and supportive 
learning environment to an adult population seeking workforce training that 
will lead to high-wage, high-skill jobs.    
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program is designed to prepare graduates to practice safely and ethically in a caring 
manner for patients who are experiencing common variations in health status in diverse health care settings. 
On June 23, 2022 a graduating class of 16 students completed the Practical Nursing Program and entered the nursing 
profession. The class has thus far achieved a pass rate of 95% on the NCLEX -PN exam (National Council Licensure 
Examination for Practical Nurses).   Program graduates are currently employed in the health care profession throughout 
Massachusetts, working in various health care settings, such as long -term care, sub-acute care, mental health/substance 
abuse facilities, physicians’ offices and correctional medicine. 
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program continues to strengthen the “LPN to BSN (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) 
Bridge” relationship with Fitchburg State University (FSU).  Former graduates have successfully transferred into seats in 
the LPN to BSN Bridge program at FSU and will continue their education to a Bachelor ’s of Science in Nursing.  Many 
class applicants cited their attraction to Monty Tech as the opportunity to complete a ten-month accelerated program and 
then bridge to Fitchburg State University. In the seven -year history of the Bridge Program, all of Monty Tech’s Practical 
Nursing graduates reaching graduation at FSU have passed their NCLEX -RN exam.  These former graduates have gone 
on to work in hospital settings including Heywood Hospital, Beth Israel, and Baystate Medical Center, while others have 
pursued advanced degrees as Critical Care Nurse Practitioners, Nurse Educators, and Family Practice Nurse 
Practitioners.  
 
  

===PAGE 135===
135 
In 2021 -2022, Monty Tech Practical Nursing students were asked to complete 
patient scenarios in the Sim Labs in Terms 2 and 3. The Faculty Sim team has 
implemented National League of Nursing (NLN) patient scenarios and authored 
several others consistent with the National Council of State Board of Nursing 
Detailed Test Plan.   Instructors have also utilized the Sim lab setting to instruct 
students in developing nursing skills that they may not be experiencing in the 
clinical setting.  
 By successfully developing and implementing a vast library of scenarios 
reflecting International Association for Clinical Simulation and Learning 
standards, we hope to prepare our students for any experience they may 
encounter as a newly licensed Practice Nurse.  In Maternity Sim Lab Boot Camp, 
for example, students utilize the simulation models to imitate the birthing 
process, from obstetric office visits through labor and common postpartum 
complications. Well newborn care is also taught. Student feedback has been 
positive regarding these maternity scenarios, stating it better prepares them for an unexpected outcome during a delivery. 
This expanded content also better prepares students for Nursing Acceleration Challenge Exam success at Fitchburg State 
University. 
Substance abuse and the mental health setting job opportunities have increased with more funding being provided to 
combat the opiate crisis.   In addition to having specialty clinical rotations, students participate in simulation scenarios 
involving substance abuse and mental health clients, to help to  prepare our graduates to work in a substance abuse 
clinical setting. 
 
The 2022 -2023 school year may bring new leadership to Monty Tech, but the 
vision for improving programs and creative means to accomplish our collective 
goals will remain intact.  In any given year, school districts may make 
improvements to facilities, upgrade instructional materials, or even implement 
new and meaningful programs, but at Monty Tech, such evolution is expected.  It 
is imperative that each of our twenty -one vocational training programs stays 
current, and that our training facilities are safe and reflect current industry 
standards.  Local budgets do not always allow for such improvements and 
innovation, and so school officials continue to seek funding streams and 
collaborative partnerships that allow the school to grow and expand to effectively 
serve students in grades 9 -12 and beyond.  A few of the more notable initiatives 
that we expect to have a positive impact on our school and students in the coming 
years include: 
Farm-to-table instruction and increased access to healthy foods :  With a first -ever grant award from the Massachusetts 
Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, Monty Tech looks forward to the establishment of an on -site 
farm, housed in a shipping container.  The “Freight Farm” is expected to address negative economic impacts caused by 
the recent COVID crisis, still felt by our students and their families today.  With the capability of growing as many as 
1,450 heads of lettuce every three weeks, this on -site farm will allow school officials to expand the school ’s already 
generous meal program, saving the school as much as $38,000 in produce costs annually.  School officials look forward 
to using this incredible technology to infuse farm-to-table lessons into the Culinary Arts program, establish a Free Pantry 
at the School for any student in need, and grant free produce to students and families in need. 
Grant funding to improve and expand training programs :  Monty Tech has applied for and received eight Skills Capital 
Grants, totaling more than $2.5M.  School officials anticipate a FY23 application may be forthcoming, and as a result, 
have met to determine which program is in need of a shop renovation, updated equipment, and/or new technology that 
reflects current industry standards.  The school ’s Culinary Arts program, which operates a busy, full -service restaurant, 
preparing students for both “front of the house” and “back of the house” careers may be the next vocational program to 
benefit from Skills Capital grant funding, should an application be approved. School officials envision improvements to 
the expansive training kitchen and restaurant area, to accommodate new and updated training equipment and industry  

===PAGE 136===
136 
trends.  In addition, because Monty Tech recently awarded a Round 5 Career Technical  Initiative Grant, school officials 
look forward to expanding the already successful evening training programs to include Electrical, Culinary Arts, 
Welding, Property Maintenance, and CNC Operator programs in FY23.   
New partnerships to increase access to vocational programs :  Since 2019, Monty Tech school officials have been in 
conversations with area school leaders, to determine if there is an interest in developing programs that would expand 
access to vocational training opportunities for students who may be enrolled in sending school districts, but who are 
looking for training that will support their post -graduate goals.  By modifying the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education’s “After Dark” guidelines, Monty Tech school officials are confident that a unique collaboration 
could provide just what these students seek.  In FY23, school officials expect to resume conversations, outlining plans to 
bring new training programs to area students.  Monty Tech will identify grant opportunities to fund the needed 
equipment, supplies and materials, while partnering districts will work to develop student schedules and outline a 
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) that outline ’s their financial commitment to this endeavor.  While Monty Tech 
officials look forward to this work in 2022 -2023, the highly anticipated training programs are not expected to open until 
Fall 2024, giving Monty Tech students and instructors ample time to locate a facility, and renovate it to create a safe, 
state-of-the-art training facility that replicates those already in operation on our main campus. 
————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
With a responsibility to serve more than 1,400 students in grade 9 -12 daily, as many as 1,000 adult learners in our 
evening programs, and now an additional 80 -100 students in grades 11 -12 from area high schools, Monty Tech leaders 
understand that this work cannot be accomplished alone.  Partnerships with area school and business leaders, promises to 
interview and hire our graduates, and opportunities for instructors to participate in meaningful professional development 
will continue to help us reach our common goal – to effectively train the next generation’s workforce in high-wage, high 
–skill jobs for a better future. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 137===
137 
 
 
Eric Commodore, Gardner 
Chair 
John Columbus, Templeton 
Vice Chair 
Julie Marynok 
Secretary 
Jeffrey Gallant 
District Treasurer 
 
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham 
Peter Capone, Ashby 
Jeffrey Raymond, Athol 
Whitney Marshall, Barre 
Robert Campbell, Fitchburg 
Michael Hurley, Fitchburg  
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg 
Melanie Weeks, Fitchburg 
James S. Boone, Gardner 
Jeanne Bartlett, Harvard 
Donna Lafayette, Hubbardston 
Barbara Reynolds, Lunenburg 
Eric Olson, Phillipston 
John P. Mollica, Princeton 
Jessica Schanz, Royalston 
William Brassard, Sterling 
John Columbus, Templeton 
Ross Barber, Westminster 
Tamarah Estes, Winchendon 
 
Respectfully Submitted By: 
 
                                                               Thomas R. Browne, Superintendent-Director                                   January 31, 2023 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School 1050 Westminster Street Fitchburg, MA 01420 
(978) 345-9200              www.montytech.net 
In addition, the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee is comprised of twenty -two 
dedicated individuals, whose expertise proves invaluable in advising the district ’s operations, policies, and 
procedures. Our students continue to benefit from the broad scope of their experiences and varying perspectives, and 
we are thankful to the following members of the 2022-2023 School Committee for their outstanding service. 
===PAGE 138===
138 
===PAGE 139===
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN CLERK 
===PAGE 140===
140 
 
TOWN CLERK  
VITALS REPORT: 
 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND US DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF TOWN, NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS HAVE 
BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURENCES OF EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE AND 
DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR. 
DURING 2022 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTH –104  DEATHS –88  MARRIAGES –44 
 
2022 TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS
 
 
Annual Town Meeting May 7, 2022 
At 9:02 a.m. the Moderator called the meeting to order, announced that the warrant was properly 
served, wished all Moms a happy Mothers ’ Day, then led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance. The 
Moderator went over the ground rules of the meeting and announced that we will be retiring our pastel 
cards in favor of electronic voting devices.  Al l voters in attendance was given a clicker at check -in, we 
voted on a test question and voting went smoothly, thanks to Peter Babel for sitting in on our first 
meeting using the devices.  Peter Beardmore was recognized and asked that we join him in thanking 
David Passios for his years of service to the Town on the Finance Committee and other elected and 
appointed positions over the years.  Rob Bowen was appointed Deputy Moderator and the Moderator 
explained the Consent Calendar.  And Articles 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20 were Voted 
Unanimously.   
 
ARTICLE 1.  To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town 
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE No Direct Financial Impact, SELECT BOARD  Recommend Approval VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT (to Pass Over as written reports have been accepted). 
 
ARTICLE 2 .  To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, 
committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2022 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town ’s General By-
laws; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD:  Recommend Approval VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT to re -authorize the revolving funds for certain town departments, boards, committees, 
agencies or officers for spending limits as printed in the Annual Town Meeting warrant (as listed 
below):   
 
 
 
 
Revolving Fund FY23 Spending  
Limit 
Ambulance Billing $100,000 
Timber Rights $10,000 
School Custodial Special Details $13,000 
Green Thumb $5,000 
Library Revolving $12,000 
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $45,000 
Stormwater Task Force $5,000 
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector Revolving $46,000 
Technology Revolving  $30,000 
 
===PAGE 141===
141 
ARTICLE 3.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD:  Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT to transfer $500.00 from Free Cash for payment of prior year expenses. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary 
to amend the amounts voted for the Town ’s FY 2022 Budget, under Article 6 of the May 1, 2021 Annual 
Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action 
relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD:  
Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-123, No-1) to transfer from line #4/Liability Insurance the sum of 
$28,275.60; transfer from #5/Workers Compensation the sum of $5,340.00; transfer from line #6/Group 
Health Insurance the sum of $116,826.72; transfer from line #13/Reserve Fund the sum of $20,000.00; 
transfer from line #14/Unemployment Compensation the sum of $10,000.00; transfer to line #13A/Salary 
Reserve the sum of $8,798.69; and transfer to line #70/Snow Removal the sum of $171,643.63; to amend 
the amounts voted under Article 6 of the May 1, 2021 Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the 
November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 2022 and FY 2023 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 
1, 2021 – June 30, 2023 with AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal Employees Union; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD:  
Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-120, N0 -6) to transfer from Article 6 of the 5/1/21 Annual Town 
Meeting and Article 1 of the 11/16/21 Special Town Meeting, line #13A/Salary Reserve the sum of 
$15,303.51 to fund the first year of the FY22 -FY23 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2021 
– June 30, 2023 with AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal Employees Union. 
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available 
funds a sum of money for the FY 2023 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Report; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT 
BOARD recommend Approval.  
VOTED (Yes-122,No-45) to raise and appropriate the sum of $967,725.00; transfer from Free Cash the 
sum of $983,034.39; transfer from Article 28 of the 5/7/16 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $20,582.40; 
transfer from Article 6 of the 5/5/18 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $1,168.29; transfer from Article 6 
of the 5/4/19 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $11,859.28; transfer from Article 6 of the 6/13/20 Annual 
Town Meeting the sum of $28,171.51; transfer from Article 2 of the 11/17/20 Special Town Meeting the 
sum of $76,708.13; transfer from Article 5 of the 5/1/21 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $7,100.00; and 
transfer from Article 21 of the 5/1/21 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $66,500.00; for a total 
appropriation of $2,162,849.00 to fund the FY23 Capital Plan, as appearing in the May 7, 2022 Annual 
Town Meeting Warrant Booklet. 
  
===PAGE 142===
142 
Below is the FY 2023 Capital Plan being recommended for approval at the Annual Town Meeting: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 7.   To see if the Town will vote to approve a reorganization of the Public Works Department in 
accordance with a reorganization plan entitled “Administrative Organization Plan, ” dated April 5, 2022, and 
accompanying message of the Town Manager, both on file at the office of the Town Clerk and Select Board 
and posted on the town website, under the authority provided for in Article 5, Section 1(b) of the Town 
Charter; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes -136, No -28) to 
approve the Administrative Organization Plan as presented by the Town Manager and as provided for 
in Article 5, Section 1 (b) of the Town Charter: 
 
It has been a mutually agreed upon goal of the Town Manager and Select Board since November 2020 to look at 
the feasibility of creating an independent facilities department and improve the long term maintenance and 
repair plan for town facilities. Currently the Town Manager delegates the responsibility of town facilities, 
excluding School and Conservation properties, to the DPW Director. This Administrative Reorganization Plan 
proposes to create a new Facilities Director position that will be responsible for all town facilities and grounds 
maintenance.  
The Town Manager, per the Town Charter Section 4 -4 on the Town Manager ’s “Powers and Duties” Paragraph 
(i), is “to have full jurisdiction over the rental and use of all town facilities and property except property under 
the control of the school committee and the conservation commission; and shall be responsible for the 
maintenance and repair of all town buildings and facilities placed under his control by this charter, by -law, vote 
of the town or otherwise ”. This has been delegated to the DPW Director per the Town Charter Section 4 -3 
“Delegation of Power ” that states: “The town manager may authorize any subordinate officer or employee to 
exercise any power or perform any function or duty which is assigned to the office of town manager; provided, 
however,  that all acts performed under such delegation shall at all times be deemed to be the acts of the Town 
Manager.” 
 

===PAGE 143===
143 
 
Currently the DPW Department encompasses Highway, Sewer, Cemetery, Parks, Facilities and oversight of the 
Trash & Recycling Program. After reviewing the organizational structure of the Department of Public Works 
and the limited staff within this department with a wide range and breadth of responsibilities , it is my 
recommendation to create a new Facilities and Grounds Department headed by this new position.  
 
Charter Process 
The Administrative Plan process is outlined in the Town Charter, Article 5, as follows: 
1. The Select Board shall hold one or more public hearings on the proposal giving notice by publication in a 
local newspaper, which notice shall describe the scope of the proposal and the time and place at which the 
hearing will be held, not less than 7 nor more than 14 days following said publication; 
2. An organization or reorganization plan shall become effective at the expiration of 60 days following the date 
the proposal is submitted to the town meeting unless the town meeting shall, by a majority vote, within such 
period, vote to disapprove the plan. The town meeting may vote only to approve or to disapprove the plan and 
may not vote to amend or to alter it.  
3. The Town Manager, through the  administrative plan, and subject only to express prohibitions in a general 
law or this charter, may reorganize, consolidate or abolish any town agency, in whole or in part; establish 
such new town agencies as are deemed necessary and to the same extent as provided in section 5 -1(a) for by-
laws; and for such purpose may transfer the duties and powers and, so far as is consistent with the use for 
which the funds were voted by the town, transfer the appropriation of one town agency to another; provided, 
however, that no function assigned by this charter to a particular town agency may be discontinued or 
assigned to any other town agency unless specifically authorized by this charter. 
4. Every reorganization plan submitted by the town manager pursuant to this section shall contain a proposed 
by-law which contains, in detail, such amendments, revisions, repeals or otherwise of existing ordinances as 
may be necessary to accomplish the desired reorganization.  
5. Such reorganization plan and proposed ordinance shall be accompanied by a message from town manager 
which explains the benefits expected to ensue. 
Adherence to Charter Process 
1. A notice was published in the April 1, 2022 Lunenburg Ledger that a public hearing will be held at the April 
12, 2022 Select Board meeting to review the Administrative Organizational Plan presented by the Town 
Manager, in accordance with Section 5 -1 (b) of the Town Charter, regarding the impending creation of the 
position of Facilities Director. 
2. Relative to #3 above, there are no express prohibitions in the town bylaws or in the Town Charter that would 
not allow for the transfer of facilities and grounds duties from the DPW Director to a newly created Facilities 
Director position. The Charter does not assign the duties of facilities and grounds, exclusive of school and 
conservation, to another agency in town, nor are there any bylaws that relate to the oversight of facilities and 
grounds. The reorganization being sought is defined under Section 4 -2, Powers and Duties of the Town 
Manager and is permissible under Section 4-3, Delegation of Authority, as outlined earlier. 
3. The Town Manager, through the  administrative plan, and subject only to express prohibitions in a general 
law or this charter, may reorganize, consolidate or abolish any town agency, in whole or in part; establish 
such new town agencies as are deemed necessary and to the same extent as provided in section 5 -1(a) for by-
laws; and for such purpose may transfer the duties and powers and, so far as is consistent with the use for 
which the funds were voted by the town, transfer the appropriation of one town agency to another; provided, 
however, that no function assigned by this charter to a particular town agency may be discontinued or 
assigned to any other town agency unless specifically authorized by this charter. 
===PAGE 144===
144 
Message on the Benefits of Creating Director of Facilities and Grounds Position 
The purpose of this reorganization plan is to create a Director of Facilities and Grounds position that would 
oversee, supervise, and facilitate the comprehensive management of all town facilities and grounds. The reason 
this is being recommended to town meeting, is that it will improve the long and short term management of our 
facilities and grounds with an individual whose background and skills relate to property management, capital 
planning, building construction, and grounds maintenance. This position will help the town strategize, prioritize 
and coordinate maintenance, repairs, safety, and efficiencies of municipal properties, as well as play a key role in 
future use and reuse of properties.  
The key benefits of creating a Director of Facilities and Grounds Position: 
1. Hiring a professional level position with a background in facilities management. Facilities management 
experience is not typical for Department of Public Works Directors.  An individual with this skill set will enhance 
and improve the town’s current and future facilities management plan. 
2. A management level position whose sole focus is long term and short term planning and maintenance of town 
facilities and grounds. Since the DPW Director is responsible for multiple different divisions, town facilities 
receive only a portion of that position’s focus. 
3. More preventative maintenance and less reactionary maintenance of our facilities and grounds. 
4. Collaborate with the School ’s counterpart position on the overall maintenance plan for facilities and grounds 
and work together with the Town Manager and Finance Director on capital planning and financing alternatives. 
5. Directed effort towards the health and safety of all staff and users of town facilities. 
6. 6. Create and maintain a property condition assessment of all town facilities and grounds utilizing Facilities 
Management software. 
This position will be appointed by the Town Manager, in accordance with Sections 4 -2 (d) of the Town Charter, 
with ratification of the appointment to be made by the Select Board. 
The Director of Facilities and Grounds will have direct supervision for the following existing positions: Facilities 
Superintendent, Facilities Custodian, and Recreation Director. Those positions that are currently in the Laborers 
International Union of North America, Public Employees, Local 39 will continue to assist with snow and ice 
removal operations, mostly related to town facilities and grounds.  
Essential functions of this position: 
1. Responsible for the planning, organizing, directing and control of all aspects of Town facilities and grounds. 
This will include facility planning, renovation, construction, energy conservation measures and efficiencies, 
preventative and regular maintenance, and repair of all town-owned buildings and grounds 
2. Responsible for a comprehensive approach to building maintenance and repair coordination, oversight, 
inspection, oversight of maintenance logs, resolving any warranty issues, establishing facility management 
schedules, and building security. 
3. Formulates procedures related to Facilities and Grounds operations, develops and oversees employee 
schedules, and reviews and advises on daily maintenance issues. 
4. Ensures all facilities staff attend routine training development for essential functions and the proper handling 
and application of all department equipment and tools; ensures staff obtain required licenses and safety 
trainings. 
5. Focuses on the optimal facility use by staff, residents, and those who seek to conduct business with or in the 
town to ensure an effective user-experience.  
6. Works with relevant town departments and elected Park Commission to advise and recommend long term 
plan for all town facilities and grounds. Updates the ten -year capital plan for all facilities and grounds 
projects that meet the Town ’s definition of a capital project and are not funded in the operating budget. 
Presents and answers all related questions for said plan and updates the Town Manager on the status of 
approved capital projects as they progress. 
7. Collaborates with the School Facilities Director to ensure a town-wide approach to facilities management and 
sustainability for all properties. Work with the Town Manager and Finance Director to examine how large 
building projects fit into the town’s overall debt schedule. 
===PAGE 145===
145 
8. Acts as contract administrator for any town building or grounds project including the town facilities cleaning 
contract and landscaping contracts. 
9. Serves as the representative for any building or grounds project that requires permitting approval at a board/
committee/commission meeting (i.e. APDC, Historical, Planning Board, etc.). 
10. Establishes and manages effective preventive maintenance schedules, building control system optimization 
and analytics, and energy efficiency measures including warranty management of new and existing equipment 
and appliances.  
11. Ensures that all town building systems are serviceable, including ventilation, air conditioning, heating, 
mechanical, electrical, refrigeration, monitoring and alarm systems.    
12. Oversees the performance of various construction or repair work with contractors, vendors, suppliers and 
Town employees; evaluates construction documents and plans associated with the maintenance and repair of 
Town-owned buildings to ensure that projects are completed in accordance with specifications and within 
established budgets. 
13. Ensures that the procurement of price quotations and supplies related to the Facilities and Grounds 
Department operations are in accordance with the State Procurement Law. 
14. Responsible for coordinating with DPW director to ensure snow removal and winter safety procedures during 
and after storms provide timely access to town facilities. 
15. Provides information and/or advice related to any building construction, repair, reuse, or disposal of town 
property. 
16. Prepares and presents the operating budgets under this department; actively monitors utility and 
maintenance expenses to identify needed efficiencies and to advise the Town Manager of any changes in spending 
trends.  
17. Engages in regular trainings and participates in trade shows and industry-events to remain current on 
technological advancements and best practices. 
The minimum qualifications that will be sought for this position include a Bachelor’s Degree, preferably in 
Construction Administration/Management, Business Administration, or Project Management. A qualified 
candidate will possess at least 5 years of supervisory experience and 10 years of combined industry experience 
related to construction, business management/energy management, and building system management. Essential 
skills include superior verbal and written communications, policy formulation, preparing and providing public 
presentations, and technological fluency in Microsoft Office and computerized maintenance management 
systems. Successful candidates will have a working knowledge of automated temperature control systems, HVAC, 
carpentry, electrical, plumbing and general building systems, and Energy Management Systems (EMS) and 
controls; or any equivalent combination of education, training and experience which provides the required 
knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the essential functions of the job. Must be knowledgeable about the 
International Building Code and OSHA requirements. Previous municipal employment is not required. The FY 
2023 budgeted amount for this position is $85,000, plus benefits. 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2023 and to fix the salaries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town 
Manager; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:   Recommend Approval VOTED (Yes-164, 
No-9) to raise and appropriate $38,772,981.52, transfer $793,968.47 from the Sewer Enterprise Fund, 
transfer $59,959.00 from the Reserve for MSBA Debt, transfer $303.26 from the Reserve for Future 
Debt-Premium, transfer $42,134.74 from the Artificial Turf Revolving Fund, transfer $47,808.00 from 
the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund, and transfer $58,837.50 from Water Betterment 
Revenue to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2023 of $41,568,744.92, and to 
fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the 
budget of the Town Manager.  
===PAGE 146===
146 
 
FY 2023 Omnibus Budget   
   
Line No. Account VOTED FY 2023 
 
 
 
 Maturing Debt & Interest  
1 Principal-Loans  $         3,220,578.72  
2 Interest -Loans  $         1,272,700.60  
3 Interest-Temporary Loans  $               1,824.90             
3A Admin Fees-Loans  $               2,619.13  
3B Bond Issuance Costs  $                         -       
   
 Total Maturing Debt  $         4,497,723.35  
   
 Unclassified     
4 Liability Insurance  $            225,644.23 
5 Workers Compensation  $            154,173.60  
6 Group Health Insurance  $         2,455,674.99  
7 Group Life Insurance  $             15,000.00  
8 Physicals  $               3,500.00  
9 Print Town Reports  $             12,000.00  
10 Mont Reg Planning Assess  $               4,158.25  
11 Historical Commission  $               3,000.00  
12 Band Concerts  $               6,000.00  
12A Agricultural Commission  $                      -  
===PAGE 147===
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 Reserve Fund  $             75,000.00 
13A Salary Reserve Fund  $             94,000.00 
14 Unemployment Expense  $             10,000.00 
14A Unemployment Expense-Stab Fund  $                       - 
15 Medicare - Town's Share  $           320,560.00 
      
  Total Gen Govt. Unclassified  $        3,378,711.07 
      
  General Government   
16 Finance Committee Expense  $                 800.00 
17 Annual Town Audit  $             42,100.00 
18 Charter Review Committee  $                           - 
19 Selectmen's Administration  $            142,472.48 
20 Selectmen Salaries  $                      - 
21 Town Manager Salary  $           157,232.16 
22 Town Manager Expense  $              6,000.00 
23 Town Accountant  $           242,692.80 
24 Treasurer's Administration  $            93,126.34 
25 Banking Charges  $             1,000.00 
26 Tax Collector's Admin  $          108,853.30 
27 Assessor's Salaries  $                           - 
28 Assessor's Administration  $          192,247.20 
29 Information Technology  $          316,022.89 
30 Legal Expenses  $          110,000.00 
31 Town Clerk Salary  $            54,560.80 
32 Town Clerk's Administration  $            51,545.20 
33 Elections  $            16,353.00 
34 Registration & Census  $            24,450.00 
35 Planning Board  $          157,817.40 
36 Zoning Board of Appeals  $             3,900.00 
37 Conservation Commission  $           71,318.88 
      
  Total General Government  $       1,792,491.65 
  Central Purchasing   
38 Central Purchasing  $            77,800.00 
      
  Total Central Purchasing  $            77,800.00 
      
  Protection   
39 Police Department  $        2,088,349.27 
40 Police Lock Up  $             50,600.00 
41 Injury Leave  $               4,000.00 
===PAGE 148===
148 
 42 Police/Fire Medical Expenses  $               4,000.00 
      
  Subtotal Police  $        2,146,949.27 
      
43 Fire Department   $       1,513,021.65 
43A Capital - Fire Dept.   $            30,000.00 
44 Fire Hydrant Expense   $            15,194.00 
45 Radio Equipment Maint.   $            10,000.00 
      
  Subtotal Fire Dept.   $        1,568,215.65 
      
46 Radio Watch   $          309,785.27 
      
  Subtotal Radio Watch   $          309,785.27 
      
47 Emergency Management   $             7,000.00 
48 Sealer of Weights & Measures                  4,300.00 
49 Wiring Inspector   $                         - 
50 Building Inspector   $          158,104.80 
51 Municipal Hearings Officer   $                        - 
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector   $                        - 
53 Animal Control   $             45,000.00 
      
  Subtotal Other Protection   $           214,404.80 
      
  Total Protection   $         4,239,354.99 
      
  Health & Sanitation   
54 General Health Expense   $              44,651.80 
55 Nashoba Assoc. Board of Health   $              36,759.84 
56 Nashoba Nursing   $              16,848.26 
57 Mental Health   $                         - 
58 Animal Inspector Salary   $              1, 000.00 
      
  Total Health & Sanitation    $             99,259.60 
      
  Department of Public Works   
59 Highway Labor  $            556,920.62 
60 Highway OT   $             10,512.87 
61 General Highway Maintenance   $           745,500.00 
61A Capital - General Highway   $                      - 
62 Town Highway Garage   $             1,040.00 
63 Traffic Signs & Devices   $           28,253.00 
64 Vehicle Mtc. - Highway   $           73,480.00 
65 Vehicle Mtc - Police   $           67,000.00 
66 Vehicle Mtc - Fire   $           42,000.00 
67 Park Department   $           97,479.44 
68 Cemetery Department   $        100,115.88 
===PAGE 149===
149 
 
69 Tree Removal   $          29,142.96 
70 Snow Removal Expense   $        350,000.16 
      
  Total DPW   $     2,101,444.93 
      
  Facilities and Buildings   
71 Facilities & Grounds  $         649,012.93 
72 Public Buildings  $         235,553.10 
72A Additional Utilities, Library  $                      - 
  Total Facilities & Grounds  $         884,566.03 
      
  Solid Waste/RecyclingProgram   
73 Recycling Program  $         312,634.00 
  Total Solid Waste/Recycling  $         312,634.00 
      
74 Council on Aging  $        183,629.08 
  Subtotal C.O.A.  $        183,629.08 
      
75 Veterans’ Benefits  $          99,275.00 
76 Veteran's Administration  $          10,250.00 
77 Registrar of Vets' Graves  $              500.00 
78 Memorial Day  $              750.00 
      
  Subtotal Veterans  $        110,775.00 
      
  Total Assistance  $        294,404.08 
     
  Schools   
79 School Department  $   22,325,309.00 
79A Unemploy.School-Stab/Free Cash  $                         - 
79B Curriculum Update  $          17,686.00 
80 Monty Tech Assessment  $     1,054,376.00 
81 Vehicle Mtc - School  $                         - 
      
  Total Schools  $    23,397,371.00 
      
      
  Library   
82 Lunenburg Public Library  $        492,983.92 
  Total Library  $        492,983.92 
      
  Total Omnibus  $    41,568,744.92 
===PAGE 150===
150 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to the Stabilization Fund, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $100,000 to the Stabilization Fund.   
 
ARTICLE 10.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted 
by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD:  Recommend Approval VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT  to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $450,000 to the Special Purpose 
Stabilization Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 11.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take 
any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT 
BOARD: Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT  to transfer from Free Cash the sum 
of $266,696 and transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $656.00 to the OPEB 
Trust Fund established at the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2023; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Sewer Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend 
Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of 
$853,112.53; transfer from the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund the sum of $20,000.00; 
transfer from the Sewer Reserve Capacity Fund the sum of $20,962.00; and appropriate from Sewer 
Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $319,107.47; for a total appropriation of $1,213,182.00 to 
operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY23; and further that $793,968.47 be included in 
appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the Sewer Enterprise Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 13.  . To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $35,548.86 into the Sewer 
Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval. VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $35,548.86 
into the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund. 
  
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of 
money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2023; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: 
Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Solid Waste Disposal 
Enterprise Revenues the sum of $302,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program.  
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2023; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval. 
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues the sum of $25,000 
to operate the Water Department.  
 
ARTICLE 16.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the FY 2023 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating and 
capital budgets; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the PAC Committee) FINANCE 
COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT vote to 
appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related revenues the sum of $152,477.00; and appropriate 
from PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $11,090.00; for a total 
appropriation of $163,567.00 to fund the operating and capital budgets of the PEG Access and Cable 
Related Enterprise Fund for FY23; and further that $47,808.00 be included in appropriations from the 
general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund.  
 
===PAGE 151===
151 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery 
Lots account to be used for the care and improvement and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries; or take any 
other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE and 
SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate the sum of 
$10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery Lots account to be used for the care and improvement and 
embellishment of the Town Cemeteries. 
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to remove and dispose of solid waste materials and restore the work area to prior natural 
conditions at the property known as the Woodruff Property, known as and numbered 104 Fairview Road, as 
shown on Assessor ’s Map 080, Lot 021, including all costs related or incidental thereto, including but not 
limited to consultants ’ fees and expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-164, No-7) 
to transfer $100,000 from Free Cash to remove and dispose of solid waste materials and restore the 
work area to prior natural conditions at the property known as the Woodruff Property, known as and 
numbered 104 Fairview Road, as shown on Assessor ’s Map 080, Lot 021, including all costs related or 
incidental thereto, including but not limited to consultants’ fees and expenses.  
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to transfer $450,000 from Free Cash for the demolition of 
the building at the property known as the old Primary School, 30 School Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 
071, Lot 076, and for final engineering and design services to create a passive recreation/open space area at 
this property, including all costs related or incidental thereto; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Select Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE Recommends approval. SELECT BOARD: No 
Recommendation.  VOTED (Yes 145; No 18)  with amendment to appropriate from Free Cash 
$250,000 for the demolition of the building at the property known as the old Primary School, 30 
School  Street, shown on Assessor’s Map 071, Lot 076. 
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Section 70 -
8.A, entitled “Salary Administration Plan, ” Schedule A, as follows: the position of Council on Aging 
Assistant Meal Site Manager to be added and assigned to Grade 3; the position of Council on Aging Meal 
Site Manager to be changed from a Grade 3 to a Grade 6; the position of Firefighter/AEMT-Call to be added 
and assigned to Grade 10; and the position of Firefighter/Paramedic -Call to be added and assigned to Grade 
11; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee) FINANCE 
COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to 
amend Chapter 70 of the Town ’s General Bylaws, entitled “Salary Administration Plan, ” Schedule A, as 
follows: the position of Council on Aging Assistant Meal Site Manager to be added and assigned to Grade 
3; the position of Council on Aging Meal Site Manager to be changed from a Grade 3 to a Grade 6; the 
position of Firefighter/AEMT -Call to be added and assigned to Grade 10; and the position of Firefighter/
Paramedic –Call to be added and assigned to Grade 11.  
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of 
Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Section 70 -8.A, entitled “Salary Administration Plan, ” Schedule A, if and as 
amended by the preceding Article 20, with a FY 2023 Salary Schedule as recommended by the Personnel 
Committee, which authorizes wage increases for Fiscal Year 2023, for permanent employees not covered by 
a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Personnel Committee) FINANCE COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD: Recommend 
Approval. VOTED (Yes-142, N0-4) to replace the current Salary Schedule in Chapter 70, Section 70 -
8.A, the Salary Administration Plan of the General Bylaws, with a FY 2023 Salary Schedule as 
recommended by the Personnel Committee as printed in the Annual Town Meeting Warrant Booklet, 
which authorizes wage increases for Fiscal Year 2023, for permanent employees not covered by a 
collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract, and further to transfer $33,018.89 from 
the FY2023 Salary Reserve Fund to fund the wage increases for Salary Administration Plan 
employees. 
 
 
===PAGE 152===
152 
Article 21: Amendment to the Salary Schedule in Chapter 70, § 70-8.a, the Salary  
Administration Plan of the General Bylaws for FY 2023    
Employees hired between January 1st and June 30th are not eligible for a step increase until the following 
calendar year on July 1. Employees receive a step increase each year until they reach the 8th Step. 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled “Salary 
Administration Plan ” as shown on a document entitled “Amendments to the Salary Administration Plan 
Bylaw”, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which 
is on file at the offices of the Town Clerk and Select Board and posted on the town website; or take any other 
action relative thereto.  
(Submitted by the Personnel Committee) FINANCE COMMITTEE: RECOMMENDS APPROVAL. SELECT 
BOARD: NO RECOMMENDATION  VOTED (Yes-155, No-78) (with amendment to 70 -19, section C –  
italicized) to amend the General Bylaws, Chapter 70, entitled “Salary Administration Plan” as depicted 
in the handout entitled “5/7/22 ATM Article 22: Salary Administration Plan Bylaw Amendments ”, with 
additions underlined and deletions stricken-through.  
GRADE STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 STEP 6 STEP 7 STEP 8 
1 $14.25 $14.68 $15.12 $15.57 $16.04 $16.52 $17.02 $17.53 
2 $14.93 $15.37 $15.84 $16.31 $16.80 $17.30 $17.82 $18.36 
3 $15.64 $16.10 $16.59 $17.09 $17.60 $18.13 $18.67 $19.23 
4 $16.10 $16.59 $17.09 $17.60 $18.13 $18.67 $19.23 $19.81 
5 $16.59 $17.09 $17.60 $18.13 $18.67 $19.23 $19.81 $20.40 
6 $17.43 $17.96 $18.50 $19.05 $19.62 $20.21 $20.82 $21.44 
7 $19.40 $19.99 $20.59 $21.20 $21.84 $22.49 $23.17 $23.86 
8 $20.70 $21.33 $21.97 $22.62 $23.30 $24.00 $24.72 $25.46 
9 $22.57 $23.24 $23.94 $24.66 $25.40 $26.16 $26.95 $27.76 
10 $24.58 $25.31 $26.07 $26.86 $27.66 $28.49 $29.35 $30.23 
11 $26.84 $27.64 $28.47 $29.33 $30.21 $31.11 $32.04 $33.01 
12 $29.23 $30.10 $31.01 $31.94 $32.89 $33.88 $34.90 $35.94 
13 $31.86 $32.81 $33.80 $34.81 $35.85 $36.93 $38.04 $39.18 
14 $34.72 $35.76 $36.84 $37.94 $39.08 $40.25 $41.46 $42.70 
15 $37.85 $38.98 $40.15 $41.36 $42.60 $43.88 $45.19 $46.55 
16 $41.25 $42.49 $43.77 $45.08 $46.43 $47.83 $49.26 $50.74 
17 $44.97 $46.32 $47.71 $49.14 $50.61 $52.13 $53.69 $55.30 
18 $49.01 $50.48 $52.00 $53.56 $55.17 $56.82 $58.53 $60.28 
19 $53.43 $55.03 $56.68 $58.38 $60.13 $61.94 $63.79 $65.71 
20 $58.23 $59.98 $61.78 $63.63 $65.54 $67.51 $69.53 $71.62 
===PAGE 153===
153 
5/7/22 ATM Article 22: Salary Administration Plan Bylaw Amendments 
§ 70-1. PURPOSE AND SCOPE 
This by-law establishes a Salary Administration Plan, hereinafter called the “Plan”, which classifies several 
positions of town services into groups, establishes salary schedules, establishes so called “fringe” benefits, or 
“indirect pay” provisions, such as holidays and vacations with pay, sick leave, and the like, and establishes a 
Personnel Committee to administer the Plan, as hereinafter provided, and to represent the interest of both 
taxpayers and town employees. 
 
§ 70-2. PERSONNEL COMMITTEE 
A. There is hereby established a Personnel Committee consisting of five members, each residing in 
the Town of Lunenburg, to be appointed by the  SelectmenSelect Board, and each member shall 
serve for a term of three years; provided, however, that of the members originally appointed, one 
shall serve a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two for a term of three years, as 
designated by the  SelectmenSelect Board. However, nothing herein  shall be deemed to prohibit 
the chairman of the Personnel Committee from designating a member  of said committee to serve 
as a representative of said Committee on a study committee of the Town Meeting, nor shall such 
service affect the tenure of said member of the Personnel Committee. If any member of the 
Personnel Committee shall resign or otherwise vacate the office before the expiration of their 
term, the successor shall be appointed by the  SelectmenSelect Board, at their discretion, to serve 
for the balance of the unexpired term. 
B. A Town employee may have a staff assignment to serve as a subject matter expert and non -voting 
member of the Personnel Committee and may be called upon from time to time to provide 
information requested by the Personnel Committee so that the Personnel Committee can make 
well-informed decisions and proposals. 
C. Said Committee shall elect its own chair man and vice-chair by September July 15th of each yearat 
their first meeting after June 30 th of each year; and in  the absence or incapacity of the chair man, 
the vice - chair shall act as chair man. The Committee shall keep a record of its official 
proceedings and actions, may establish its own rule of procedure and may, subject to 
appropriation therefore, retain such clerical and other assistance, and make such other 
expenditures as may be necessary to the performance of its duties. Three members shall constitute 
a quorum for the transaction of the business of the committee, and the affirmative vote of three 
members shall be necessary to any official act of the Committee. 
D. The Personnel Committee is hereby authorized to administer the provisions of this by -law, except 
for such duties as may be specifically assigned by statute , Town Charter or by-law to other Town 
officers, boards or committees.  Appeals for decisions of the Personnel Committee may be taken 
to the Town at the next Annual or Special Town Meeting. 
E. The Personnel Committee may from time to time issue, amend, or revoke Administrative Orders 
for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this by -law, and for the purpose of giving 
effect to the provisions of such other by -laws and votes of the Town, pertaining to personnel 
administration, as said Committee may be responsible for administering and/or enforcing. Each 
such order shall be numbered in sequence, and said Committee shall maintain in the Town Office 
a file for all such orders issued, said file to be open to public inspection. 
F. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Committee shall have access to all facts, figures, records 
and other information relating to the personnel of Town departments, and the same shall be 
furnished forthwith by any such department whenever so requested by the Personnel Committee, 
in such a form  as said Committee may require. 
G. In the event that the Personnel Committee does not have enough members to conduct business, the 
Town Manager shall have the authority to administer the Salary Administration Plan. 
===PAGE 154===
154 
§ 70-3. CLASSIFICATION AND SALARY SCHEDULE 
The positions of all employees in the service of the Town, and not otherwise covered by a collective 
bargaining agreement or employees of the school, are hereby classified by titles in the groups listed in 
Schedule A, entitled “Classification and Salary Schedule”, as set forth in this by-law. 
 
§ 70-4. TITLE OF POSITIONS 
No person shall be appointed, employed or paid as an employee in any position subject to the provision of the 
Salary Administration Plan under any title other than those of the Classification and Salary Schedule, or under 
any title other than that of the job the duties of which are actually performed. The job title in the Classification 
and Salary Schedule of the Plan shall be the official title for all purposes having to do with the position and  
shall be used to designate the position in all payrolls, budget estimates and official reports, and in every other 
connection involving personnel and fiscal processes. 
 
§ 70-5. NEW OR CHANGED POSITIONS 
The Personnel Committee tentatively may add new job title and descriptions to this Plan, establishing grades 
with minimum and maximum wage or salary brackets for the same, and reclassifying existing jobs, revising 
the description and the minimum and maximum wage and salary brackets therefore, and such addition or 
reclassification to be effective only for the period from the date of such action by the Personnel Committee to 
the date of any vote with respect thereto adopted at a subsequent Town Meeting but in no case later than the 
next Annual Town Meeting unless such later date as may be specified by such vote. Any increase in wages or 
salaries under this section shall be effective only if funds are available for the purpose, and approved by the 
Finance Committee and Board of SelectmenSelect Board. 
 
§ 70-6. RECLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES 
No employee shall be reclassified to a job in another group, either higher or lower, until the Personnel 
Committee shall have determined that such a reclassification will be consistent with the provisions of the 
Salary Administration Plan. Eligibility for a step increase of a reclassified employee will be granted one year 
from the date of reclassification. 
 
§ 70-7. JOB DESCRIPTIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
A. The Personnel Committee shall maintain written job descriptions of the jobs or positions in the Plan, 
describing the essential functions, requirements and duties. The descriptions shall not be interpreted as either 
complete or restrictive and employees shall continue to perform any duties assigned by an employee ’s 
supervisor. 
 
B. Every three (3) years, the Personnel committee shall review the wage and salary schedules of all positions 
in the Plan, and be in a position to recommend to the  Board of Selectmen Select Board any action deemed 
desirable to maintain a fair and equitable pay level. 
 
 
§ 70-8. SALARY SCHEDULE 
A. The Classification and Salary Schedule of the Salary Administration Plan, set forth in Schedule A of this by
-law, shall consist of the maximum and minimum salaries and step -rate salaries for the groups and positions in 
the Classification and Salary Schedule. The salary range of a group shall be the salary range for all positions 
classified in such group. 
===PAGE 155===
155 
B. Irrespective of the period of time for which pay rates may be shown in the Salary Schedule, all 
employees shall continue to be paid on an hourly, weekly, monthly, or other basis, as at present, 
unless otherwise authorized by the Personnel Committee or by amendment of the Salary 
Administration Plan. 
§70-9. SALARY RATES ABOVE MAXIMUM 
Any salary rate whichrate that is above the maximum rate for a job, as established by Salary Administration 
Plan, shall be deemed to be a personal rate, and apply only to the incumbent. When such incumbent leaves the 
employ of the Town or is transferred to another job with a higher maximum rate than their personal rate or 
higher maximum rates are established, the personal rate shall disappear. No other  employee assigned to or  
hired for such job shall advance beyond the maximum of the job. 
§70-10. LAYOFF PROCEDURE; RECALL PROCEDURE 
 
A. Layoff Procedure – If the Town decides to layoff employees, it shall determine from which classification
(s) or job function(s) layoffs shall be made. Layoffs shall then be made based on seniority within the 
classification. 
 
     1) “Seniority” shall be the length of an employee ’s continuous service measured from the employee ’s most    
recent appointment date; provided an employee’s seniority may be reduced  for periods of unpaid leave, unless 
otherwise prohibited by law. 
     
    2) If two or more employees in the same classification have the same seniority, the employee who has the 
shorter term of continuous employment with the Town shall be laid off. If there are two or more employees in 
the same classification with the same seniority and the same term of continuous employment with the Town, a 
part-time employee shall be laid off before a full-time employee. If there are still two or more employees in the 
same classification, the Town  Manager shall determine which employee shall be laid off. 
 
   3)An employee that is scheduled to be laid off shall have the right to bump other employees in lower 
classifications with less seniority, provided that the Town Manager, in  his/hertheir sole discretion, but with 
consultation of the Department  Head, shall make a determination that the employee retained is qualified and 
able to perform the duties of the lower classification, subject to disability discrimination laws. 
    
   4) Employees who have been laid off from employment are responsible for keeping the Town advised of 
their current address for the purpose of potential recall from layoff. 
  
B. Recall Policy – If the town conducts a recall from layoff, recall shall be offered in reverse order of layoff by 
classification provided the laid off employee is qualified and able to perform the duties of the classification to 
which the employee is being offered recall, subject to disability discrimination laws. Employees shall only be 
eligible for recall from layoff under the terms of this policy for one (1) year from the date of the employee ’s 
layoff. 
      
1) Any employee who is recalled from layoff under the terms of this policy shall retain  his/hertheir seniority, 
less the period of layoff. 
 
2) The Town will notify an employee of a recall opportunity by certified letter (or other verifiable method of 
delivery) to the employee ’s last known address. An employee who has been offered an opportunity to be 
recalled from layoff must advise the Town of  his/hertheir intention to accept   recall within five (5) working  
days. 
===PAGE 156===
156 
§ 70-11. TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS 
 
A. When an employee is promoted to a job with a higher rate range, or rate of pay, he/she shall enter it at the 
minimum of the job rate range or at their own rate, whichever is the higher, but in no event at a rate in excess 
of the maximum for such job. Upon promotion, the employee will be placed on the pay grade for the new 
position at the lowest step at which the employee would receive a pay increase.  They may also receive  at the 
time one or more step rate increases, provided the maximum for the job is not exceeded, if the Department 
Head recommends that qualification and performance warrant it, and the Personnel Committee approves. If the 
Department Head should feel that there should be a trial period before recommending the promotional step rate 
increase or increases, on recommendation of the Department Head, the Personnel Committee may approve any 
such deferred promotional increase at the conclusion of the trial period. 
B. f an employee is transferred to a job with a lower rate range, or rate of pay, they shall enter it at  the pay 
rate closest to their current ratetheir own rate or at the maximum rate for the job, whichever is the  lower. 
 
§ 70-12. NEW PERSONNEL 
 
A. The hiring rate shall be the minimum of the rate range of the job for which the new employee  if is hired, 
unless otherwise authorized by the Personnel Committee.  the Town Manager recommends paying the 
employee at a higher step due to the employee ’s qualifications and experience or marketing conditions . The 
Personnel Committee must vote to approve any recommendation above step 1.  Department Heads shall notify 
the Town Manager of the hiring of all new personnel. This notification shall be done in writing via the New 
Hire Personnel Form. 
B. Effective July 1, 2015, for new regular full -time and new regular part -time personnel for whose position 
there is a rate range, eligibility for a step increase will depend on the employee ’s date of hire. If hired between 
January 1st and June 30th, the employee is not eligible for a step increase until July 1st of the following calendar 
year. If hired between July 1 st and December 31 st, the employee is eligible for their first step increase on the 
upcoming July 1st. 
C. Effective July 1, 2022, for new regular full -time and new regular part -time personnel, eligibility for a step 
increase will be on the anniversary date of employment. 
§ 70-13. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
A. Any employee who believes that they have  been received inequitable treatmentsubject to a violation of the 
Salary Administration Plan  is encouraged to discuss the  grievance initially with their supervisor within 10 
working days of the occurrence or knowledge of the event. If the employee is  not  comfortable discussing the 
matter with their direct supervisor, or if the matter is not settled, the employee should submit the said 
grievance to their Department Head. The Department Head shall meet with the employee and will respond in 
writing to the employee within 14 days of the meeting. 
B. If the grievance is not resolved by the decision of the Department Head, the employee may  escalate the 
grievance to the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director. If unsatisfied, the employee may  file an appeal in 
writing with the Town Manager within 10 days of receipt of the most recent decision. The Town Manager will 
meet with the employee within a reasonable time after receipt of the appeal and will respond in writing to the 
employee’s grievance within 30 days after meeting with the employee.  The Town Manager’s decision shall be 
final and binding. 
===PAGE 157===
157 
§ 70-14. DEPARTMENT BUDGETS 
 
Each Department Head shall include in the annual budget request, a pay adjustment section to provide funds 
for anticipated pay adjustments during the ensuing year, expenditures to be made therefrom only in accordance  
with the Salary Administration Plan with approval of the Personnel Committee. 
§ 70-15. SEVERABILITY 
In the event any provision of this by -law or application thereof , shall be  held to be invalid by the proper 
authorities, this shall not be construed to affect the validity of any other provision, or application thereof, of 
this by-law. 
§ 70-16. CIVIL SERVICE 
Nothing in this by -law of Salary Administration Plan shall be construed to conflict with Chapter 31 (Civil 
Service) of the General Laws. 
§ 70-17. HOURS OF WORK; OVERTIME; COMPENSATORY TIME 
A. Non-Exempt Employees: 
The schedule of hours to be worked shall be determined by the appropriate Department Head. 
1) For non-exempt positions entitled to  overtime pay at one and one -half (1 1/2) times the 
regular rate for work actually performed  in excess of forty (40) hours within a  work 
weekworkweek, . the The words “work actually performed” shall be construed to include 
all duly paid time off, including but not limited to holidays, sick leave, vacation, personal 
days and bereavement  leave, and such leave shall be included in the computation of forty 
(40) hours. 
2) Unauthorized leave or leave for which the employee is not entitled to compensation shall 
not be included in such computation, unless otherwise required by law. 
B. Hours by occupation. 
1. Industrial Trades and Service Occupations 
a..Work Week 40 hours in 5 days. 
b. One and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate will be paid for work actually performed in 
                 excess of forty (40) hours within a work week. 
2. Office Occupations 
a. Work Week - Forty (40) hours in five days and may be reduced administratively to 36 hours in 
                  four or five days. 
b. One and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate will be paid for work actually performed in 
                 excess of forty (40) hours within a work week. 
3. Public Safety Occupations 
Fire Department - The hours of the Fire Department shall be determined by the Chief with the 
  approval of the Personnel Committee provided, however, that all hours worked by any member 
  of the Fire Department will be paid for at the regular rate then in force. 
B. Exempt Employees: 
      Exempt Employees, Administrative and Professional Occupations, are not governed by hours of the 
positions under their supervision or control. Generally, such positions shall be for at least forty (40) 
hours per week when full-time and not entitled to overtime. 
===PAGE 158===
158 
IV. Administrative and Professional Occupations 
Persons employed in these positions are not governed by hours of the positions under their 
  supervision or control. Generally, such positions shall be for at least forty (40) hours per week 
  when full-time and not entitled to overtime. 
C. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing paragraphs, the appropriate department head  or his/
her designee  may, instead of  paying the overtime rate, provide that the employee take 
compensatory time off at a rate of 1 1/2 times the hours worked that qualify for overtime pay. 
Compensatory time must be taken within 60 days. 
§ 70-18. PAID VACATIONS 
A. All persons employed regularly by the Town full -time or part-time for a minimum of twenty 
(20) hours per week shall receive paid vacations according to the following schedule. Any 
persons working between 20 and 40 hours per week shall receive paid vacations, but it will be 
prorated accordingly. The  part-time compensation vacation and sick leave  formula shall be 
used to determine the prorated  part- time employee ’s vacation day (See  SECTION 28. 
DEFINITIONS Section 28). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Earned vacation time up to and 
including 80 hours must be used in the year granted. No unused portion of this allowance shall be 
carried forward into a subsequent vacation year, nor shall any monetary compensation be given 
for such unused portion. Earned vacation time in excess of 80 hours should be used in the year 
granted, and no portion of such excess shall be carried forward into a subsequent year. If 
departmental scheduling or other serious extenuating circumstances preclude the  use of all such 
excess in the year granted, the employee may request to receive compensation equivalent to such 
unused portion in a lump sum payable on the first payroll warrant in July, in addition to their 
regular salary, or may be allowed to carry over such excess as the Town may elect in its sole 
discretion. Any employee asserting a serious extenuating circumstance must submit a written 
request to  his/hertheir direct supervisor and such request must be approved by the direct 
supervisor and the Town Manager before the employee shall be compensated for, or allowed to 
carry over, such excess. 
C. Employment Termination. An employee whose employment ends , whether voluntary 
resignation, retirement or involuntary termination,  shall receive be paid for all accrued, but 
unused vacation 
After Completion of: Hours of Paid Vacation 
(Based on 40 hour week) 
Less than one complete year of continuous service 8 hours per each full 
calendar month up to 80 
hours 
After completion of 1 Year of continuous service 80 
After completion of 5 Years of continuous service 120 
After completion of 10 Years of continuous service 160 
After completion of 11 Years of continuous service 164 
After completion of 12 Years of continuous service 168 
After completion of 13 Years of continuous service 172 
After completion of 14 Years of continuous service 176 
After completion of 15 Years of continuous service 180 
After completion of 16 Years of continuous service 184 
After completion of 17 Years of continuous service 188 
After completion of 18 Years of continuous service 192 
After completion of 19 Years of continuous service 196 
After completion of  20+ Years of continuous service 200 
 
===PAGE 159===
159 
leave.compensation equivalent to earned vacation allowance, provided he/she has been in the  
continuous service of the Town for 10 months, as follows: 
1. All currently available, unused vacation allowance up to a maximum of 200 hours; and 
2. One twelfth (1/12) of the vacation allowance which would otherwise have been credited on the next 
succeeding July 1, for each full month worked since the preceding July 1. 
D. The vacation year shall begin July 1. In the first year of employment, employees shall accrue one 
(1) day of vacation leave (prorated based on number of hours worked each week) per month of service 
completed to a maximum of 80 hours to be available for use by the employee on the following July 1st. 
Vacation leave accrued each fiscal year will be available for use on the following July 1st. Any change in the 
rate of accrual shall occur on the employee’s anniversary date. When an employee’s anniversary date for the 
completion of the 5th, 10th-20th years occurs after July 1st, the employee shall receive vacation leave for the 
remainder of the year on a pro-rated basis. 
E.  The assignment of vVacation leave shall be arranged approved by the Department Head and/or his/hertheir 
designee for such time or times as best serve the public interest., provided, however, that each employee shall 
be entitled to use at least 40 hours of their vacation accrual during the period between June 1 and September 
15 if desired, based on seniority. 
F. No vacation time may be used in advance of the July 1 date on which it would normally be credited; except 
that where such advance servesd the needs both of the employee and of the Town, it may be requested granted, 
upon request of the employee,  by the Department Head , and authorized in writing subject to the written 
approval of the by the Town Manager. In no case shall any such advanced vacation exceed  the number of days 
for which the employee would be entitled to compensation, were they to terminate their services in good 
standing on the first day of such vacation. 
§ 70-19. PAID HOLIDAYS 
  
A. The Town of Lunenburg shall observe the following holidays:  
        New Year’s Day                                        Labor Day 
Martin Luther King Day Columbus Day 
Presidents Day Veterans’ Day 
Patriots Day Thanksgiving Day 
Memorial Day One Floating Holiday* 
Juneteenth Day Before Christmas 
Independence Day Christmas Day 
B. Employees who regularly work forty (40) hours per week, and/or five (5) days per week shall receive 
paid holiday leave on the day on the Town observes the holiday based on the base hourly rate of the 
employee for  the number of hours the employee is regularly scheduled to work on the day of the week 
on which the holiday is observed. 
B. C. Employees who regularly work less than forty (40) hours and/or five (5) days per week shall receive paid 
holiday leave on the day the  Town observes the holiday provided the employee is regularly scheduled to work 
on the day the Town observes the holiday, based on the hourly rate of the employee for the number of hours 
the employee is regularly scheduled to work on the day of the week on which the holiday is observed. 
C.  D. Holiday leave will be granted on the day the Town  observes the holiday, when possible. If the holiday 
falls on a Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, it will be 
observed on the following Monday. If an eligible employee is required to work on the day the Town observes 
the holiday, they will be entitled to a Floating Day , which has to be used within 30  days, by agreement of the 
supervisor and employee. Employees shall receive a floating holiday* for any holiday that falls on a day that 
they are not regularly scheduled to work. If the department head determines that holiday leave cannot 
be 
===PAGE 160===
160 
 
granted, the employee shall receive payment at one and one-half times the base hourly rate for all hours worked 
on the holiday, in addition to his or her holiday pay. Final determination is to be made by the Town Manager. 
 
B. E. To be eligible for paid holiday leave, an employee must work his or her full assigned shift on his or her 
regularly scheduled workday before a holiday, and the next regularly scheduled working day follow ing the 
holiday, unless the employee has been excused for a legitimate reason by the direct supervisor. 
 
* Floating Holiday time for employees who work less than 40 hours per week will be calculated in hours and 
determined by dividing the number of hours regularly worked per week, by the number of days they work in  one 
week. 
 
§ 70-20. SICK LEAVE 
 
A. All persons employed, full -time or part -time who have completed the six (6) months  probationary 
waiting period by July 1 of any year, shall be entitled to sick leave of ninety-six (96) hours, to be credited 
on July 1. The  part-time compensationVacation and Sick Leave formula shall be used to determine the 
employee’s prorated sick pay (See SECTION 28. DEFINITIONSSection 28). 
 
B. New employees having completed the six (6) months probationarywaiting period shall be credited as 
of the end of said six (6) months, with sick leave in the amount of eight (8) hours for each full month 
intervening between the six months anniversary date and the next July 1, up to the maximum o f ninety- 
six (96) hours. Use of such leave must be occasioned by sickness or injury of the employee or their 
immediate family member. 
 
C. Unused sick leave shall be cumulative up to a maximum of 1,200 hours, and shall be carried forward 
on July 1 of each yea r, to be added to the sick leave credited as of July 1.  The vacation and sick leave 
formula shall be used to determine the employee’s prorated maximum sick hours (See SECTION 28. 
DEFINITIONS). Sick leave may be donated to another employee who has exhausted  their accumulated 
sick leave at the discretion of the Town Manager. 
 
D. When an employee finds it necessary to be absent because of accident or illness, they shall report the 
fact to their immediate supervisor as soon as possible either in person or by agent. Sick leave will not  be 
granted unless such report is made. For the protection of the Town, the Department Head or supervisor 
may require the presentation of a doctor’s certificate in connection with a claim for sick  leave that 
exceeds, or is equal to 24 hours (or three missed days of work)., and may, if it is deemed advisable, send 
a doctor or nurse to investigate any absence alleged to be caused by illness . Any employee who refuses 
to submit to a doctor’s examination note shall not be entitled to sick leave. 
 
E. An employee who retires in good standing shall receive compensation based on a percentage of  
his/hertheir accumulated unused sick leave, up to a maximum of 480 hours, as follows: 5 years continuous 
service 10%; 15 years continuous service 50%; 25  years continuous service 75%. In the event of an 
employee’s death, the above benefit will be paid to  his/hertheir beneficiary. This retirement benefit will 
not be available to any employee hired after June 30, 2010. 
 
F. Sick Time can be used for any of the following reasons: 
 
1) Care for the employee’s own physical or mental illness, injury or medical condition that requires 
home care or rest, professional medical diagnosis or care, or preventative medical care; 
2) Care for the employee’s child, spouse, parent or parent of a spouse, who is suffering from a 
physical or mental illness, injury, or medical condition that requires home care, professional 
medical diagnosis or care, or preventive medical care; 
3) Attending the employee’s routine medical appointment or a routine medical appointment for  the 
employee’s child, spouse, parent, or parent of spouse. 
===PAGE 161===
161 
 
§ 70-21. PERSONAL LEAVE 
 
A. All persons employed, full time or part time who have completed six (6) months probationary waiting 
period by July 1 of any year, shall be entitled to personal leave of three (3) days twenty-four (24) hours, 
to become available on July 1 for use during the ensuing fiscal year. The part-time compensation formula 
shall be used to determine the employee’s prorated personal hours (See Section 26). 
 
B. New employees having completed the six (6) months probationarywaiting period shall be credited as 
of the end of said six (6) months, with eight one (81) personal hours day for use during the period between 
said six (6) months anniversary and the end of the then current fiscal year; provided, however, that the 
said six (6) months probationarywaiting period must have been completed by May 1 of that year. 
 
C. Employees who do not use any sick leave within a three month ( 3) month period (calculated 
quarterly), will be entitled to  eight one (81) additional personal  hours day for each such quarter; said 
personal hours days are to be used in the same fiscal year in which they are earned.  Personal leave  shall 
be scheduled with the approval of the Department Head and/or his/hertheir designee. Personal leave shall 
not be cumulative. 
 
§ 70-22. FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE 
 
A. The Town agrees to abide by the provisions of the 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). All eligible 
employees are entitled to up to twelve (12) weeks of unpaid leave for certain family and medical reasons in a one 
(1) year  period.  Employees are eligible for FMLA if they have worked for the Town for at least one (1) year and 
at least for one thousand two hundred and fifty (1,250) hours over the previous twelve (12) months. 
 
B. Unpaid FMLA leave must be granted for any of the following reasons: 
 
1. To care for the employee’s child after birth, or placement for adoption or foster care 
2. To care for the employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent, who has a serious health condition 
3. For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the employee’s job 
 
C. In accordance with the Town’s policy, the Town requires the use of paid leave time during the FMLA absence 
including accumulated Sick Leave, Vacation Leave, and Personal Leave. The Town requires all employees 
applying for an FMLA leave to notify their Department Head, in writing, thirty (30) days prior to the  leave, if 
possible.provides leave in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave  Act  (FMLA)  and  its FMLA Policy, 
as adopted by the Select Board and as it may be amended from time-to-time. A copy of the Town’s FMLA Policy 
is available on the Town’s website. 
 
 
§ 70-23. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE 
 
In the event of death in an employee’s family (wife, husband, mother (in-law), father (in-law), child, grandparents, 
brother, or sister) up to and including three days off duty may be granted, with pay, not to be charged against sick 
leave. (spouse, children, parents, in-laws, step-children, step-parents, significant other or someone who is under 
your direct care and living in your home, up to and including five (5) days off duty shall be granted, with pay. In 
the event of death of a grandparent, grandchild, sibling, sibling-in law, step-sibling, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, 
three (3) days off duty shall be granted, with pay. Two (2) additional days off, with pay, may be granted at the 
discretion of the Town Manager not to be charged against sick leave. Any time  above these days is to be charged 
against sick leave. 
===PAGE 162===
162 
 
§ 70-24. MILITARY LEAVE 
 
The Town provides military leave in accordance with state and federal law. 
A. Town employees with a minimum of six consecutive month’s employment with the Town who serve in the State 
or Federal military training forces under orders shall be allowed full pay for not more than one normal working week 
and shall be granted a military leave of absence for the period of their required service with said forces. 
 
B. Military leave of absence with pay shall be granted to employees of the Town on occasion of their  appearance 
before local draft boards or draft appeal boards, or for physical examinations ordered by said  boards; but no such leave 
shall be granted for a period of more than one day without the approval of the Personnel Committee. Such leave shall 
be deemed to be a military leave of absence. 
 
C. A military leave of absence without pay shall be granted to any Town Officer or employee called to active  duty 
with the State or Federal Armed Forces for purposes other than the routine annual tour of duty for training purposes. 
 
D. As used herein, the phrases “military training forces” or “armed forces” shall mean the United States Air Force, the 
United States Army, the United States Navy, the Unites States Marine Corps, the United States Coast Guard, the 
Massachusetts National Guard, the Massachusetts Air National Guard, the Massachusetts State Guard, and any and all 
components thereof. 
 
§ 70-25. JURY DUTY 
 
All persons permanently employed, whether full -time or part -time, for a minimum of twenty (20) hours per  week, 
called for jury duty shall be paid by the Town, an amount equal to the difference between the compensation paid for a 
normal working period and the amount paid by the court, excluding allowance for travel, and this will be certified by 
the Town Clerk or Treasurer upon presentation of the check for monies received for Jury Duty. Jury duty pay is for up 
to three days of pay. 
 
§ 70-26. LONGEVITY PAY 
 
After reaching ten (10) years of employment, and thereafter, each employee permanently employed, whether  full or 
part time, shall receive an annual bonus equal to 2% of their annual salary, and is payable in the first pay period after 
the employee’s anniversary date, at 15 years of continuous service – 2.5% of their annual salary,  and at 20 years of 
continuous service – 3% of their annual salary. 
 
§ 70-27. TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT 
 
Travel reimbursement shall be by signed voucher at a rate established by the IRS when using the employee’s own car, 
plus tolls and parking fees. 
 
§ 70-28. DISCIPLINE POLICY 
 
A. Items which constitute grounds for disciplinary action against an employee include: chronic absenteeism or 
tardiness, insubordination or refusal to work, infr action of work and safety rules, threat of physical violence against 
fellow employees, use of profane language to a supervisor or fellow employee, or offenses of comparable gravity or  
severity. 
 
B. Process. 
1) Upon determination by the Department Head that disci plinary action is warranted, the following guidelines 
shall be implemented for all employees that have successfully completed a six (6) month probationary waiting 
period: 
===PAGE 163===
163 
 
STEP 1. 1st Offense - Written warning. 
STEP 2. 2nd Offense - A formal written reprimand notifying the employee of a one -day suspension and 
that one further offense shall result in a three -day suspension without pay. 
STEP 3. 3rd Offense - Employee will receive an immediate three -day suspension without pay and a 
written notification that any further offense shall be grounds for dismissal. 
STEP 4. 4th Offense - Immediate dismissal of the employee. 
 
1) Depending on the particular circumstances, one or more of the above steps may be skipped. The offense 
for which disciplinary action is taken may be any combination of the items described above. For example, 
offense number one could be tardiness, offense number two could be absenteeism,  and offense number 
three could be refusal to work or insubordination. If an employee goes twenty-four 
(24) months without a further offense, the first offense beyond twenty -four (24) months shall be 
disciplined at the level of step one. 
 
2) The following infractions are grounds for the immediate dismissal of an employee for just cause by the 
Department Head. Just cause may include, but shall not be limited to, the following: 
 
1) Willful neglect or non-performance of one or more assigned duties; 
2) Demonstrated incompetence in the performance of one or more assigned duties; 
3) Behavior that seriously interferes with the normal operation of the municipality, the department, or any 
member of the workforce: 
4) Insubordination, which shall mean a refusal to carry out a direct order; 
5) Dishonesty in the performance of assigned duties: 
6) Chronic absenteeism or tardiness without reasonable excuse; 
7) Unauthorized possession or use of alcohol or an unprescribed controlled substance during any period of 
assigned work; 
8) Municipal theft. 
 
SECTION 28. DEFINITIONS 
 
The following terms used in the Salary Administration Plan shall be defined as set forth herein: 
 
Full-Time Employee shall mean any person employee who spends an amount of time between is regularly  
scheduled to work thirty-six (36) and forty (40) hours of permanently scheduled work per week in the service of 
the Townhours or more per week. 
 
Hourly Employee shall mean any employee of the Town who by virtue of their classified position is compensated 
at an hourly rate for services rendered. 
 
Intermittent Employee shall mean any person employee who works less than tweis regularly scheduled to work  
fewer than twenty (20) hours per week on a regular basis. Intermittent employees are not eligible for benefits (i.e. 
vacation, sick-time, holiday, longevity, insurance, unless required by law etc.) and work less than one thousand 
forty (1,040) hours per year in the service of the Town. 
 
Part Time Compensation Vacation and Sick Leave Formula shall be determined by dividing the compensation or 
time off by 40 and then multiplying by the number of hours the employee works per week.  For example, a  40 
hour per week employee is eligible for 120 hours of vacation. If another employee with the same tenure works 36 
hours, the formula is as follows: 120 / 40 = 3. Then multiply 3 x 36 hours = 108 hours. 
 
Part-Time Employee shall mean any person employee who spends is regularly scheduled to work at least twenty 
(20) hours and fewerless than thirty-six (36) hours but twenty (20) hours or more of permanently scheduled work 
per week in the service of the Town. 
 
ProbationaryWaiting Period shall mean the initial six (6) month period of employment with the Town. 
===PAGE 164===
164 
Seasonal Employee shall mean any employee, part or full -time who spends works no more than six (6) 
months180 days or one hundred eighty (180) days whichever is less per year., in the service of the Town. 
Seasonal employees are not eligible for  benefits (i.e. vacation, sick -time, holiday, longevity, insurance, 
etc.unless required by law). 
 
ARTICLE 23.  To see if the Town will vote to create a special committee composed of not more than 11 
members to act as a steering committee to plan for the observance of the 300 th Anniversary  of the Town of 
Lunenburg, which was incorporated August 1, 1728, said committee to be appointed by the Select Board, and 
to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money to cover initial expenses of said 
committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board) FINANCE 
COMMITTEE and SELECT BOARD:  Recommend Approval VOTED (Yes-161, No-3) to create a special 
committee composed of not more than 11 members to act as a steering committee to plan for the 
observance of the 300th Anniversary of the Town of Lunenburg, which was incorporated August 1, 1728, 
said committee to be appointed by the Select Board, and to raise and appropriate $5,000 to cover to the 
initial expenses of said committee. 
 
ARTICLE 24.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the General By -laws of the Town of Lunenburg as 
follows: 
(i) by deleting all references throughout to “Selectman,” “Selectmen” and “Board of Selectmen,” 
and substituting therefor the terms “Select Board member,” “Select Board” and “Select Board,” 
respectively; 
 
(ii) by adding to Chapter 12, entitled “Boards, Commissions and Committees,” to Article II, 
entitled “Building Committee,” to Section 12-3, entitled “Membership, appointment,” second 
sentence, the phrase “one member of the Select Board appointed by the Select Board” between 
the phrases “comprised of” and “one member from the Planning Board”; 
 
(iii) by deleting Article IV, entitled “Computer Advisory Committee,” from said Chapter 12, in its 
entirety, including Sections 12-7, entitled “Establishment and membership; vacancies,” and 12-
8, entitled “Powers and duties”; 
 
(iv) by deleting from Chapter 12, entitled “Boards, Commissions and Committees,” from Article V, 
entitled “Public Access Cable Committee,” from Section 12-9, entitled “Establishment and 
purpose,” second sentence, the phrase “Lunenburg TV Channels 8 and 9” and substituting the 
phrase “Lunenburg TV Channels 8, 9 and 99” therefor; 
 
(v) by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11, entitled 
“Membership,” within Subsection A, the phrase “or full-time students at Lunenburg High 
School”; 
 
(vi) by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11, entitled 
“Membership,” within Subsection C, the phrase “or any Lunenburg High School student”; 
 
(vii) by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11, entitled 
“Membership,” Subsection G in its entirety, and substituting the following therefor: 
 
            G.  Vacancies.  Vacancies shall be appointed by the Select Board to serve the balance of the 
unexpired term. 
 
(viii) by deleting from said Chapter 12, from Article VII, entitled “Americans with Disabilities 
Committee,” from Section 12-20.1, entitled “Meetings,” within Subsection E, the word 
“Robett’s” and substituting the word “Robert’s” therefor;  
 
===PAGE 165===
165 
 
(ix) by deleting from Chapter 81, entitled “Town Meetings,” from Article I, entitled “Town 
Meetings,” from Section 81-1, entitled “Warrants,” within Subsection A, Item G, the phrase 
“Centre Pizza & Variety” and substituting “JAXX Country Variety” therefor; and 
 
(x) by deleting from Chapter 168, entitled “Licensing,” from Article II, entitled “Denial or 
Revocation of Licenses for Failure to Pay Taxes,” Section 168-6, entitled “Exceptions,” in its 
entirety, substituting the following therefor: 
 
§ 168-6  Exceptions. 
 
This article shall not apply to the following licenses and permits: 
 
Statute   Contact  Subject Matter 
MGL c. 48, § 13  Fire Department Open burning 
MGL c, 101, § 33  Select Board  Sale of article for 
charitable  
     
 purposes 
MGL c. 149, § 69   School Department Children work 
permits 
MGL c. 140, § 21E  Select Board  Clubs, associations  
      
 dispensing food or  
      
 beverage licenses 
MGL c. 140, § 137  Animal Control Dog licenses 
MGL c. 207, § 28  Town Clerk  Marriage licenses 
MGL c. 140, § 181  Select Board  Theatrical events, 
public  
      
 exhibition permits 
 
(Submitted by the Bylaw Review Committee)  FINANCE COMMITTEE: NDFI, SELECT BOARD 
RECOMMENDATION: Approval.   ARTICLE 24 VOTED (Yes-171, No-4). 
 
ARTICLE 25.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Lunenburg Sewer Bylaw as follows: 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Sewer Commission) or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by Sewer Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE: No Direct Financial Impact;   SELECT 
BOARD Recommend Approval. VOTED  (Yes -147, No -33)  2/3rds Declared.( with Amendments to 
Section 10 “Waivers”) to amend the Lunenburg Sewer Bylaw as follows:  
 
by adding to Section 2.0, entitled “Sewer Service Area, ” at the end of the second paragraph, which 
presently reads: 
 
“The Sewer Service Area and Sewer Service Zones are delineated on the Sewer Service Area Map as approved 
by the Town Meeting.  The Sewer Service Area Map may be amended from time to time by vote of Town 
Meeting.” 
 
the following: 
 
“The inclusion of a property, or portion of a property, in the Sewer Service Area may establish eligibility to 
connect to the sanitary sewer but shall not create an entitlement thereto.  All sewer connections shall be subject 
to, and shall comply with, the provisions of this by -law, including but not limited to available capacity, 
capacity limitations and Sewer Commission approval (s), where required.  Neither the boundaries of the Sewer 
===PAGE 166===
166 
“Sewer connections shall be located entirely on the property they are to serve.  The connection must enter the 
property directly from the public way in which the sewer is located.  No connections shall be allowed via an 
easement.  A sewer line must remain within the parcel that it serves.” 
 
and substituting the following therefor: 
 
“Sewer connections shall be located entirely on the property they are to serve.  The connection must enter the 
property directly from the public way in which the sewer is located.  No connections shall be allowed via an 
easement.  A sewer line must remain within the parcel that it serves. 
 
Notwithstanding the above, sewer connections may be installed in easements across adjoining properties, at 
the discretion of the Commission, through the issuance of a waiver under Section 10.0 of this bylaw.” 
 
 and 
 
by deleting from Section 4.0, entitled “Sewer Extensions,” the fourth paragraph, in its entirety, which 
presently reads: 
 
“All development and construction shall be monitored in accordance with the ‘Monitoring and Inspection 
Procedures and Fee System of the Lunenburg Sewer Commission.’” 
 
 and 
by deleting Section 9.0, entitled “Regulation Changes,” in its entirety, which presently reads: 
 
“9.0      REGULATION CHANGES 
 
The Sewer Commission will establish a draft of proposed changes during regular, properly posted open 
meetings.  Once there is consensus on the proposed changes, a formal hearing will be scheduled and will take 
place over 2 regularly scheduled meetings.  Both hearings will be televised.  A notice of the hearing will be put 
in a local newspaper at least 5 business days prior to the hearing dates.  At the discretion of the Sewer 
Commission, the hearing may be continued to the next consecutive open, regularly scheduled meeting.  Once 
the hearing is closed, the final changes will be drafted and voted on.  The proposed and approved changes will 
be posted on the Commission’s Town website.” 
 
and substituting the following therefor: 
 
“9.0      REGULATORY AUTHORITY 
 
The Sewer Commission is expressly authorized to promulgate rules and regulations effectuating the purposes 
of this by-law; provided, however, that neither the Commission’s failure to promulgate a rule or regulation nor 
a legal declaration of the invalidity thereof shall act to suspend or invalidate the effect of the provisions hereof.  
Amendment(s) to the rules and regulations may be contemplated during regular, open meetings of the 
Commission.  Prior to the adoption of any amendment, a public hearing shall be conducted with notice of said 
hearing published in a local newspaper at least five (5) business days in advance.  At the discretion of the 
Commission, the hearing may be continued from time to time as necessary.  Following adoption, the 
amendment(s) shall be posted on the Commission’s Town website.” 
 
 and 
 
by adding a new Section 10.0, entitled “Waivers,” as follows: 
 
“10.0 WAIVERS 
Except as otherwise stated herein, the Sewer Commission reserves the right to waive, in its sole discretion, any 
provision(s) of this by -law and/or the rules and regulations adopted hereunder due to emergency 
circumstances: in situations that meet all of the following criteria;  
===PAGE 167===
167 
(1)  emergency circumstances threaten the safe and continued use of a property that a waiver may resolve; 
(2)  alternatives to the waiver present an undue hardship to any person or entity affected thereby; 
(3)  the Commission deems it to be in the best interest of the Town of Lunenburg and not otherwise 
inconsistent with the purpose and objectives hereof; 
 
Notwithstanding the above, no waiver shall be granted for a new commercial property. 
 
Each request for a waiver shall be made in writing to the Commission, shall require a public hearing to be 
conducted with notice of said hearing published in a local newspaper at least five (5) business days in advance 
and, shall require an affirmative vote of approval by a super -majority in number of the Commission.  In no 
event shall the Commission waive any requirement of the Massachusetts General Laws or any regulation 
adopted by the Commonwealth thereunder.  There shall be no entitlement to a waiver; and the grant of a 
waiver in one instance shall not require the Commission to grant a waiver in any other,” 
 
ARTICLE 26.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, a.k.a. the 
Protective Bylaw, Section 4.15, entitled “Non-medical marijuana establishments, ” Subsection K, entitled 
“Special permit procedure,” by deleting Item (1) therefrom in its entirety, which presently reads: 
Applicant shall submit proof of approval from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for the proposed 
Marijuana Establishment by submitting copies of all required registrations, licenses and permits 
issued to the applicant by the state and any of its agencies for the facility as well as Host 
Community Agreement (HCA) with the Town and approval hereunder shall be conditioned on final 
approval from the Commonwealth. 
 
and by substituting therefor the following: 
 
An applicant shall submit a copy of its Host Community Agreement (HCA) with the Town, authorizing 
its development of a Marijuana Establishment on the site subject to receipt of applicable permits; as 
well as copies of all registrations and licenses, if any, issued to the applicant by the Commonwealth 
or any of its agencies for operation of a Marijuana Establishment on the site.  Licensure by the 
Commonwealth is not a prerequisite to application submittal; provided, however, that 
commencement of use of or construction under a special permit is and shall be conditioned upon 
issuance of all requisite provisional licenses and approvals under applicable law.  Final licensure of 
the Marijuana Establishment shall be required before commencement of operations. 
 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE: No 
Direct Financial Impact;   SELECT BOARD Recommend Approval.  VOTED (Yes -159, No -7) 2/3rds 
Declared 
 
ARTICLE 27.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -4.9, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Water Supply Protection District, ” as shown on a document entitled 
“Section 250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District Updates 2022”, with additions to the Bylaw underlined and 
deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the offices of the Town Clerk and Land 
Use Director and posted on the town website; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the 
Planning Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE: No Direct Financial Impact SELECT BOARD Recommend 
Approval; PLANNING BOARD recommends disapproval. ARTICLE 27 was DEFEATED (Yes-11. No-160)  
 
ARTICLE 28.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -3.2, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Location of Districts,” by deleting “May 3, 2008” as the date of the 
map referenced therein and substituting “May 7, 2022” therefor, and by adopting said revised map, a copy of 
which is on file with the Town Clerk, as the Town ’s official zoning map; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)  FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct 
Financial Impact SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval  Article 28 was PASSED 
OVER. 
 
 
===PAGE 168===
168 
ARTICLE 29.    To see if the Town will vote to amend the sewer service area map by adding the 
remaining acreage for parcel known as 5 Chestnut Street to the Lunenburg sewer service area and sewer 
service zone (known as parcel id 059-0032-00); or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Citizen 
Petition) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:  No Direct Financial Impact, SELECT BOARD 
RECOMMENDATION: DEFFERED. Article 29 was PASSED OVER. 
 
ARTICLE 30.  To see if the Town will vote to adopt the following “Resolution in Support of Changing the 
State Flag & Seal of Massachusetts”: 
Whereas the history of Massachusetts is replete with instances of conflict between the European Colonists and 
the Native Nations of the region, who first extended the hand of friendship to the Colonists on their shores in 
1620, and helped them to survive starvation during the settlers first winters on their land; 
 
Whereas members of the Native Nation for who the State of Massachusetts is named were ambushed and 
killed by Myles Standish, first commander of the Plymouth Colony, in April of 1623, barely two years after 
the Pilgrims arrived on their shores; 
 
Whereas the Colonial broadsword brandished above the head of the Native man on the Massachusetts State 
Flag and Seal is modeled after Myles Standish ’s own broadsword, borrowed for that purpose from the Pilgrim 
Hall in Plymouth by the illustrator Edmund Garrett in 1884; 
 
Whereas the belt binding the Native ’s cloak on the Flag and Seal is modeled after a belt worn by Metacomet, 
known to the English as King Philip, who was among the Wampanoag leaders who resorted to a mutually 
destructive war in 1675-76 in defense of Native lands against Colonial encroachment;  
 
Whereas the proportions of the body of the Native man in the Flag and Seal were modeled from a Native 
skeleton kept in Winthrop, the bow modeled after a bow taken from a Native man shot and killed by a colonist 
in Sudbury in 1665, and his facial features taken from a photograph of an Ojibwe chief from Great Falls, 
Montana, considered by the illustrator to be a “fine specimen of an Indian,” though not from Massachusetts; 
 
Whereas the history of relations between Massachusetts since Colonial times and the Native Nations who 
continue to live within its borders includes the forced internment of thousands of so -called “praying Indians” 
on Deer Island, in Boston Harbor, where they died by the hundreds of exposure in 1675, their subsequent 
enslavement in Boston, Bermuda, and the Caribbean Islands, the offering of 40 pounds sterling as bounty for 
the scalps of Native men, women and children in Massachusetts beginning in 1686, increased to 100 pounds 
sterling for the scalps of Native adult males by 1722, half that amount for Native women and children; 
 
Whereas Native Americans were legally prohibited from even stepping foot into Boston from 1675 until 2004, 
when that law was finally repealed; 
 
Whereas the 400th anniversary of the landing of the colonists at Plymouth Plantation in the year 2020, afforded 
every citizen of the Commonwealth a chance to reflect upon this history and come to an awareness of the 
possibility of a better relationship between the descendants of the Colonial immigrants and the Native Nations 
of the Commonwealth; 
 
Whereas Native Americans have long suffered the many abuses of racism, the appropriation of their symbols 
for public schools and sports teams, the loss of their ancestral lands and the encroachment of their cultural 
lifeways;  
 
Whereas the area now known as the Town of Lunenburg shares a rich Native history with modern day tribal 
Nations, who inhabited this area long before the first colonial settlers arrived circa 1718, such as the Abenaki 
and the Nipmuc; Now, therefore, BE IT RESOLVED that the Town of Lunenburg hereby adopts this 
resolution in support of the work of the Special Commission Relative to the Seal and Motto of the 
Commonwealth, established by a Resolve of the General Court in 2020 and appointed by the Governor to  
===PAGE 169===
169 
recommend changes to the current flag and seal of Massachusetts; and in support of a new seal and motto for 
the Commonwealth that may better reflect our aspirations for harmonious and respectful relations between all 
people who now call Massachusetts home. The town clerk shall forward a copy of this resolution to Sen. Marc 
Pacheco and Rep. Antonio Cabral, co -chairs of the Joint Committee on State Administration, who serve as 
members of the Special Commission Relative to the Seal and Motto of the Commonwealth, and to Sen. John 
Cronin, Rep. Michael Kushmerek and Rep. Danillo Sena, with the request they support the work of the 
aforementioned Special Commission. (Submitted by Citizen Petition) FINANCE COMMITTEE 
RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact, SELECT BOARD recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-
48, No-20) to adopt “Resolution in Support of Changing the State Flag & Seal of Massachusetts”. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 3:20 PM 
 
Special Town Meeting  
 
Special Town Meeting November 15, 2022 
The Special Town Meeting was called to order at 7:05 P.M. in the Middle/High School Auditorium.  The 
Moderator declared that we had a quorum present and that the warrant was properly served. We then 
pledged allegiance to the Flag; we were reminded of committee vacancies and the need for volunteers 
and finally we tested the electronic devices to be used for voting – all but one in good working order.  
The Moderator explained the Consent Calendar and moved same:  that Town Meeting advance for 
consideration Articles 2, 6, 7, and 9 and that it take action on said Articles without debate: VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY on a voice vote.  
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, 
all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town ’s FY 2023 Budget, under Article 8 of 
the May 7, 2022 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
Finance Committee and Select Board recommend Approval. VOTED (Yes-136, No-5) (94 needed for 2/3rds 
Majority) to raise and appropriate the sum of $73,000 as follows: to line #22/Town Manager Expense, 
the sum of $10,000.00; to line#28/Assessors Administration, the sum of $45,000.00; to line #35/Planning 
Board, the sum of $5,000.00; to line#71/Facilities and Grounds, the sum of $13,000.00; for a total 
increase of $73,000.00 in the amount raised and appropriated under Article 8 of the May 7, 2022 Annual 
Town Meeting.  
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Finance 
Director) Finance Committee and Select Board recommend approval. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to 
raise and appropriate $1,804.54 for payment of prior year expenses. 
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to fund the first year of the FY 23, FY 24, and FY 25 Lunenburg Police Officers Collective Bargaining 
Agreement dated July 1, 2022 – June 30, 2025 with the New England Police Benevolent Association Local 
353; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Finance Committee and 
Select Board recommend approval. VOTED (Yes-127, No-11) to transfer from Article 8 of the May 7, 2022 
Annual Town Meeting, line #13A/Salary Reserve, the sum of $16,000.00 to fund the first year of the 
FY23-FY25 Lunenburg Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2022 – June 30, 
2025 with the New England Police Benevolent Association Local 353.   
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money for the property known as the Marshall Park, 100 Chestnut Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 
060, Lot 018, and for final engineering and design recreation/open space services area at this property, 
including all costs related or incidental thereto; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Parks Commission) Finance Committee and Select Board recommend approval.  VOTED (Yes-124, No-24) to 
raise and appropriate the sum of $184,000 for the property known  as the Marshall Park, 100 Chestnut 
Street, shown on Assessor ’s Map 060, Lot 018, and for final engineering and design recreation/open 
space services area at this property, including all costs related or incidental thereto.   
 
