===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SPECIAL SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
February 1, 2025 
      10:30 am Remote Meeting 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - present    
Carol Archambault, Secretary - present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:  
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Brian Lehtinen at 10:31 
 
2. Old Business 
Action 
a. Superintendent Screening Committee – membership appointment Carol and I met at a posted meeting of the 
screening committee to recommend 10 people to join the committee along with myself and Carol. I have drafted up 
a brief summary of the diversity of the group that we are recommending.  Mr. Lehtinen read out loud the summary.  
Ms. Archambault reports they went very carefully over everyone’s letters and thanks everyone w ho applied.  The 
people that are chosen represented many groups.  Mr. Lehtinen reads the list of applicants they are recommending 
for the screening committee.   Mr. Beardmore appreciates the amount of work that has been put into this and shares 
some of his concerns with the list of applicants.  Mr. Sculimbrene thinks the list is good, but agrees that it would be 
helpful to have a diversity of points of view.  There are people that regularly attend school committee meetings that 
often disagree with us on various things, and I think that disagreement makes for a better process.  Ms. Brzozoski 
also echo’s Mr. Beardmore and Mr. Sculimbrenes comment about diversity of views.  I think if we are going to have 
a buy-in from the community about the superintendent choice, I think that it needs to be a little more representative 
of the community.  This list feels a little “parent heavy” with three members being parents as opposed to the 
committee chosen for the search previously only had two.  This list only has one community member at-large 
compared to last time there were two, so I was hoping to see two.  The age representation of people tends to skew 
towards people who are parent aged and I was hoping have at least another person who was older than parent age. 
Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve the list as presented, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the list, all approve 
via roll call vote 
 
3. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 10:57, Mr. Beardmore  seconds the motion all approve via 
roll call vote 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
Courtney Fuller 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  
