===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SPECIAL SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Thursday, May 15, 2025 
      LHMS Collaborative Room #D132 
6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - Present 
Carol Archambault, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Mr. Lehtinen at 6:30 pm 
2. Public Comment   Mr. Lehtinen reads aloud a welcome letter to the new superintendent Dr. Jodi 
Fortuna. Dear Lunenburg family, staff, and community members we are excited to share 
that Lunenburg School Committee has voted to appoint Dr. Jodi Fortuna as the next 
superintendent of Lunenburg Public Schools beginning July 1 2025. Dr. Fortuna comes to 
us with over 20 years of experience in educational leadership and a deep commitment to 
student achievement, inclusive practices, and a strong school community. She currently 
serves as the Deputy Superintendent of Teaching and Learning in the Brookline Public 
Schools where she has led important district-wide instructional initiatives and worked 
closely with educators’ families and community partners. Her professional background also 
includes numerous leadership roles including Assistant Superintendent in Boston Public 
Schools, Principal Assistant Superintendent, and Superintendent of Hudson Public 
Schools, Principal at Narragansett Regional School, and Assistant Principal at Northridge 
Public Schools. She began her career as a Special Education Teacher in the Dudley -
Charlton Regional School District. She has continued to center her work on supporting all 
learners and empowering staff. Dr Fortuna holds a doctorate in educational leadership from 
Boston College and she brings a collaborative of out outcomes driven approach to school 
leadership. Throughout the search process Dr Fortuna impressed us with her thoughtful 
vision, her understanding of district systems, and her ability to bring people together. She is 
dedicated to listening, learning, and working in partnership with students’ educators, 
families, and the entire Luneburg community. This appointment follows a rigorous and 
inclusive search process that included public finalist interviews as well as a screening 
subcommittee made up of school staff, union representatives, town officials, parents, and 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
community members. We are deeply grateful to everyone who contributed time, insights 
and feedback throughout the process we look forward to welcoming Dr Fortuna to 
Lunenburg and beginning a new chapter together. She will be working closely with the 
school committee and current leadership to ensure a smooth transition in the months 
ahead. Thank you for your continued support and dedication to our schools 
 
 
3. Executive Session:  to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to enter executive session at 6:33 Mr. Beardmore 
seconds the motion, all approve via roll call.  Committee returns at 6:43 
 
4. New Business 
Action 
a. Superintendent Contract Mr. Sculimbrene and Ms. Archambault met with Dr. Fortuna on 
Tuesday.  The contract includes an annual salary of $174,000, we accepted the request to 
reimburse her for the membership fee of American Association of Superintendent which is 
$485 per year.  This is a 3 year contract with a 2 ½% raise each year.  Ms. Archambault 
makes a motion to accept the contract, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve 
via roll call vote. 
 
5. Old Business 
a. First Read 3601.1 Bus Fee Policy Ms. Brzozoski reads the policy out loud.  
 
6. Public Comment 
 
7. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 6:52, Mr. Beardmore seconds the 
motion, all approve via roll call vote 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 