===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 
       Town Hall 
 7:00 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present 
Emily Young Secretary - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Member - Present 
George Yapp, Member - Absent 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator, Christopher Stevens – Director of Facilities, Yanina Burns – Athletic 
Director 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:00 by  Mr. Sculimbrene 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to enter executive session out of order due to 
technical difficulties, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve  
 
4. Public Comment  None 
 
5. Chairs Report –  None 
 
6. Student Representative Report The winners of the Lunenburg Public library writing contest will be 
announced on October 3rd.  Tonight the Lunenburg Field Hockey team is having a game in support of 
Hattie, who has a rare and aggressive brain tumor and is a member of the Primary School. On Friday 
October 3rd is Smile day and students are supposed to wear clothes with smiley faces.  Turkey hill has 
had their Scholastic book fair and penny wars starts this week. Literacy night is October 22nd at the 
Primary School.  The high school fall sports have started and are going well. The middle school has a 
dance this Friday.  NHS is offering peer tutoring every Tuesday and AP exam registration is now open. 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
7. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session 8/6/25 & 9/3/25 Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept minutes, Ms. 
Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
 
8. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers  We have one transfer it is to move $20,000 from athletic insurance to 
athletic dues and fees, they were classified in the wrong object and org number  Ms. Brzozoski 
makes a motion to approve the transfer, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
b. Warrants 9/5/25 – 9/26/25 $464,149.66 
c. Donations – We adopted the third version of HMH, we have a surplus of HMH 2 supplies, and 
we would like to offer to donate to other districts that may be able to use these supplies.  Ms. 
Gilman makes a motion to accept the request to donate, Ms. Young seconds the motion all 
approve 
 
9. Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna shares district highlights and celebrations. The FY26 budget is 
current under review.  Staffing is being closely monitored and a recent retirement as created a savings 
that will allow us to hire a full time paraprofessional.  Updates from the food and services review that 
was discussed in December of 2024.  There are also updates on the IEP schedule processing goals.  Dr. 
Fortuna shares her community engagement and communication. 
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. Additional Primary Professional Position Principal Squire included a letter in your packet 
asking for the support of a paraprofessional. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to add two 
paraprofessional positions where needed, Ms Young seconds the motion, all approve 
b. Potential Hire for IT Dept this was a position that was cut to part time, and it is not working at 
the middle high school, this would allow us to have coverage for the full school day.  Ms. 
Gilman makes a motion to approve this request, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all 
approve 
c. Fall Athletics Report The committee has been provided a report of the fall athletics  Ms. 
Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the report, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
d. FY26 Quarterly Reports – Budget, Personnel, Keystone The committee has been provided a 
report on budget, personnel Ms, Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the quarterly budget 
report, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve.   Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to 
accept the grant funds and revolving account, with the caveat that we remove family names 
from circuit breaker , Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
e. Facility Fee Document Update we would like to make 1 hour of AV support mandatory to 
match what it is costing us.   Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the increase in fees, Ms. 
Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve 
f. Facilities and Grounds Report Mr Stevens gives an update on the Facility and Ground reports  
Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
g. Authorization for Warrant Article There are two warrant articles that have been proposed, the 
first one is to come up with a form of a stabilization account Ms. Gilman makes a motion to 
add this as a warrant item , Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve.   The second item 
discussed the school budget is based on an estimate of chapter 70 number, this year there is an 
additional $202,185, in order for the school to get this money it needs to be on the warrant for 
the Town meeting in November.  Mr. Sculimbrene reads his reasons as to why he does not 
support this request. After a full discussion, Ms. Gilman decides to withdraw her motion for this 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
to be added as a warrant.  Ms. Brzozoski discusses a potential for a forensic audit and best 
practices audit being added as a warrant article 
Discussion 
h. FY27 Budget Priorities Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to table this item until the budget 
priorities are declared, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion 
i. Superintendent Draft Goals Ms. Gilman makes a motion to table these items until a future 
meeting, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
j. School Committee Goals Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to move until a future meeting, 
Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
k. Payment for Soccer Uniforms Soccer uniforms were purchased without the knowledge of the 
previous or current superintendent, they are personalized and cannot be returned. These will be 
kept and will be held for the soccer team until the Fall of 2026 
 
11. Old Business 
Action 
a. FY 27 Draft Capital Plan Committee discusses the list of requests and they decide on their top 
choices Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to change the capital plan, it ends with a tie vote, in 
the event of a tie, the original plan will stay as is and be submitted. 
 
12. Public Comment TJ Loughlin 207 Rolling Acres Road In regards to the salary reserve line as it 
relates to paras, and how these hires show up in next year’s budget items.  If we assume the hires this 
year were increased for next year.  When we propose FY27 and compare to the FY26, if we look at 
increases, will it look like an increase, or will it show a zero change in the line because we had hired the 
person.  It is interesting using the salary reserve as a hiring mechanism, if we use that in full this year, 
how will it change next year?  Will it be used as an ongoing hiring option?   
Ms. Gilman The PTO is selling gear and the sale ends next week, we will also have a Great Wolf Lodge 
fundraiser  
Anna Lockwood In regards to the $200,000, I supported the FY25 budget and override, we never want 
to disclose that we rely on state money solely, the community has taken funds from other departments 
and project to give extra money to the schools already, that $200,000 really has already been used and 
allocated to the school.  As we are adding these positions into the budget, you are taking from the FY27 
bucket of budget money.   
Amy King 3 Gabes Place In understand the comments regarding not being able to hire people in time, 
but there have been many comments about the whiteboards for the Primary School, and every supply 
line has been cut, can th$200,00 be used to bolster those items.  I am disappointed to hear we have these 
soccer uniforms sitting in boxes, we have 14 seniors this year many that have been playing varsity since 
freshmen year, we have uniforms that are ripped and parents are sewing them. We also do have 
fundraisers, it may not be toll booths but we do fundraisers 
 
13.  Topics for Future Discussion 
 
14. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 10:25, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion 
all approve         
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                     