===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, February 4, 2026 
       Town Hall 
 7:00 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Absent   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Secretary – Present 
Emily Young, Member - Present 
TBD- Member 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator, Carla Squier – Primary School Principal, Tim Santry – LMHS Principal, 
Norman Yvon – THES Principal 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:05 by  Ms. Brzozoski 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Public Comment - None 
 
4. Chairs Report – None 
 
5. Student Representative Report None 
 
6. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session  
,  
7. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers  None 
b. Warrants 1/20/26 – 2/2/26 $180,039.36 
c. Donations – None 
 
8. Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna reports that we have received a grant from DESE for high impact 
tutoring to support 117 for our students at the Primary School.  We are partnering with a group called 
Ignite Reading.  We will begin implementing the program the week of March 9th.  The grant amendment 
presented at the last meeting has been approved, approximately $41,000 will cover fixed costs including 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
instructional support, stipends, summer prep and materials, the remaining $17,000 will be dedicated to 
contracted professional development.  This week our legislators have approved one-time earmarked 
funds, $36,000 is going toward touch view screens at the Primary School, $7,000 will fund IXL for our 
middle school students, and $10,000 is going toward safety improvements across all three campuses, 
specifically for a sander attachment and harness.  The remaining funds will cover smaller but vital 
projects.  We originally allocated $42,700 toward IReady diagnostic assessments’, however given how 
late in the year the approval came through, we will be looking to better utilize these funds, and will be 
bringing an amendment proposal to you in the future.  Dr. Fortuna gives an update on the status of the 
budget cuts last year as we currently have students on our radar that may require out of district 
placement and we have also had students move into the district that require out of district placements. 
 
9. New Business 
Action 
a. LHS Program of Studies Mr. Santry presents the LHS 2026/2027 Program of Studies, this is a 
list of all courses that can be offered, however, does not mean all courses that will be run, it also 
gives information on graduation requirements, GPA grading scales, and prerequisites etc. Ms. 
Gilman makes a motion to approve LHS Program of Studies, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion, all approve. 
b. School Choice The committee discusses options of class sizes and funding.  We are looking to 
only add school choice options to the high school.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the 
school choice proposal, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve. 
c. Temporary Proposal to move School Committee meetings to LMHS Town Hall is not very 
accessible if someone is not able to walk we would like to move our meetings to LMHS for the 
foreseeable future.  Ms. Gilman to move meetings to LHS for the foreseeable future, Ms. 
Young seconds the motion, all approve. 
d. Superintendent permission to discuss earmark funding with Representative Scarsdale Dr. 
Fortuna would like to reach out to Representative Scarsdale to discuss the possibility of changing 
the earmarked $195,000 to be used for a different purpose, originally it was for 2 passenger vans 
and at this time, it is not fiscally responsible to purchase two vans.  Ms Young makes a motion 
to approve a discussion with Representative Scarsdale, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, 
Ms. Gilman abstains, and the motion is approved. 
 
Discussion 
e. FY27 Budget Q & A Level service budget stands at $28.2 million, with the additions discussed 
with the tri-board, this would add $980,000, and this also includes the 14.4% increase in health 
insurance.  This year budget is $26.2 million, we have a $2 million increase for FY 27.  All the 
principals are carefully examining their budgets to determine if there are any possible areas to 
reduce any budget lines. 
f. Coordinated Family & Community and Parent/Child Grant Program The committee has a 
memo which is a recommendation for Lunenburg Public Schools to not pursue the renewal of the 
coordinated family and community engagement and parent child plus grants for the 26/27 school 
year with the reasons for this proposal. 
g. Override Format & Amount The committee has discussed the override amount of $2.9 million, 
it’s still undecided if it will be one town override, if it will be one amount for an override or a 
tiered approach 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
10. Old Business 
Action 
a. Facilities and Grounds Report The committee has been provided the report.  The playground 
study is no longer one of the capital planning recommendations.  The driveway study is still on 
the list.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the report, Ms. Young seconds the motion all 
approve. 
 
Discussion 
b. Update on School Improvement Plan Each principal gives a presentation for updates on their 
School Improvement plans.  The committee and principals have an open discussion regarding 
changes and effects they are seeing in the schools. 
 
11. Public Comments for issues discussed tonight None 
 
12. Reports from Sub-Committees Ms. Young reports the PACSAL committee met at Coffee 
Connections, there was a small group, we discussed upcoming event ideas and plans for the next few 
meetings.  We are working on ways we can spread the word and grow the group.  Tomorrow there is a 
meeting focused on behavioral concerns and management for parents that need it, it will be held on 
zoom and at the middle school.  On March 5th there will be an interactive session with the Story School 
Camp at the library starting at 6 pm for parents to explore how the camps work.  Ms. Brzozoski reports 
the Building Reuse met on Monday and discussed next steps in space usage, looks like the town is 
planning to use Ritter as town hall, with adjustments.  There was also a wellness subcommittee meeting 
and the survey was discussed.  Ms. Gilman reports the PTO still has tickets for the Special Someone 
dance, it’s a great event, and we have a lot of teenagers from the LMHS that are volunteering. 
 
13. Public Comment  
 
14.  Topics for Future Discussion Turkey Hill bathroom, override, budget reports, personnel report 
 
15. Adjournment Ms. Gilman makes a motion to adjourn at 9:23, Ms. Young seconds the motion all 
approve 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                         