===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
July 10, 2025 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray,  
  Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp,   
  Committee Member Jay Simeone, Committee Member Tanya Dall 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from the Town Manager or the Finance Director.  
6. New Business 
  a. Tri Board Topics for Finance Committee Deliberations 
   i. Tri-Board Ground Rules Adoption 
   ii. Discussions on consolidations, efficiencies, and timeline 
   iii. Discussions on Departmental Growth 
   iv. Specific Requests from Tri-Board 
   v. Financial Management / Best Practices 
   The first Tri-Board meeting was held on July 8, 2025, and concluded  
   after roughly 2 and a half hours. The meeting is available to view via  
   Zoom. 
b. Budget Request Forms and Dept Briefing expectations 
   This topic was discussed briefly at the Tri-Board meeting on Tuesday.  
The Town Manager stated the Town will soon be using ClearGov. 
Ana Lockwood suggests creating a template customized for every 
department’s unique set of data. This could also be utilized for the school 
department as they have similar departments.   
===PAGE 2===
Tanya Dall suggests the program/portal implemented should allow the 
Committee to set the data they are looking to review. 
c. Town Finance Policies 
   The Committee is going to review the 90-page policy that was put together 
  with a grant by the Division of Local Services.  After review and a vote by the 
   Finance Committee it will then be submitted to the Select Board to vote.  
Ana Lockwood suggests discussing the policy document in portions 
throughout upcoming meetings. Chris Menard suggests having a general 
discussion about the first 42 pages at the next meeting.  
7. Old Business 
  a. Analysis of historical school budget data 
   Ana Lockwood thanked Tony Sculumbrine for putting her in touch with the  
  previous superintendent. Ana Lockwood had a meeting and requested all  
  historical data. Additionally, Ana Lockwood did receive a response from the  
  new superintendent, and they intend to have a meeting. 
Tanya Dall is concerned that the schools don’t have a finance manager and 
inquires if the town finance director could step in until someone is hired. Ana 
Lockwood states a consultant was hired for the schools for several months 
after their finance director left. 
8. Minutes 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes from May 8, 2025, and June 12, 2025, by 
 Ana Lockwood, seconded by T om Gray. The vote was 6-0-1. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Tom Gray states that the Municipal Building Design Committee met and had a joint 
 meeting with the Select Board. There was discussion about the next steps for the 
 Ritter building and the Town Hall renovation as they did not pass.   
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  The Committee members are going to read the first 42 pages of the town finance 
 policy document in preparation for the next meeting. 
Upcoming actions for future meetings include discussing the budget season 
 schedule and reorganization of Committee assignments. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings - August 26, Sept 30, Oct14, Nov 12, Dec 9, Jan 13 
  b. Finance Committee – July 24 
===PAGE 3===
12. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by T anya Dall, seconded by Ana Lockwood.  
The meeting closed at 7:42 PM. 