===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
March 13, 2025 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Committee Member 
Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member 
Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member:  Clerk Tom Gray 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  Rhonda Liscio, 181 Reservoir Road, inquires if there is a direct impact on the town’s 
  bond rating if the town does not contribute to OPEB. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from the Town Manager or the Finance Director.  
6. Scheduled Meetings 
  a. Municipal Building Design Committee 
    Michael Ray JeƯreys, 1170 Mass Ave., provided the Municipal Building Design 
   Committee presentation. 
The biggest problem the Committee is facing is the TC Passios building. TC 
Passios school was transferred from the school dept to the Select Board. 
This triggered TC Passios Design Committee to see if that building could be 
repurposed to be used as a municipal building. The building is roughly 55,000 
square feet. An architectural ﬁrm conducted analysis of the building and met 
with a variety of community stakeholders. The cost estimation was 23 million 
then the pandemic hit and supplies skyrocketed. Before the meeting in May 
the price rose to 29 million. It could cost 14 to 15 million just to get the 
building up to the current code. At the town meeting it was decided not to 
move forward for a vote.  
The Committee then changed back to being a Municipal Building Design 
Committee in order to look at all municipal buildings and not just at TC 
Passios. They determined that Town Hall and the Ritter building needs to be 
modernized and ADA accessible.  
===PAGE 2===
ARPA funding was used to bring in an architectural ﬁrm, structural engineers, 
mechanical engineers to create a plan. The trade cost of each building is 
below: 
  Meeting House and renovation: $2,624,843 
  Ritter Memorial renovation: $2,068,279 
  Town Hall: $6,937,520 
  Sitework: $1,657,520 
   Subtotal trade costs $13,288,086 
   Subtotal with contingencies and escalation: $15,281,299 
Total construction cost with GC OH&P: $17,840,917 
There are 2 options for payment. A 30-year bond would be an average cost 
per household of $300 for a 30-year bond or $400 per household for a 20-year 
bond. 
Mike Rupp inquires what the cost would be to take care of the buildings. 
Michael Ray JeƯreys is unsure and would be diƯicult to estimate. 
Ana Lockwood questions how much of the new space will be meeting space 
versus oƯice space Michael Ray JeƯreys states there would be 6,500 square 
feet that can be used for meeting space. 
 
  b. Parks Commission 
   Anita Scheipers, Chair of the Parks Commission, and Karin Menard, Clerk of  
  the Parks Commission, provided the presentation. 
There has been a new updated design for Marshall Park. The project has been 
scaled back and will only be built on already developed areas. The dog park, 
wetland trails, and other improvements are no longer included in the new 
design. The new design consists of 3 phases. 
  Phase 1: Construction of the driveway including parking spaces, 
 playground, sports courts, and walking trail. A total of 120 parking 
 spaces will be added. 
  Phase 2: Construction of the men’s baseball ﬁeld, ladies’ softball 
 ﬁeld, and parking oƯ of Chestnut Street. 
  Phase 3: Constructions of buildings including large pavilion with 
 restroom facilities, concession stand, and picnic area. 
The timeline is as follows: 
   -Design package and permitting will start in May and conclude in  
  September. 
  -Bid process preparation will start in October and be awarded in  
===PAGE 3===
  December.  
  -Sitework construction will start March of 2026 and conclude by May  
  of 2027. 
The Commission intends to re-apply for the previously awarded grants. 
Regarding future park maintenance, the Facilities Director is in the process of 
getting maintenance scheduled for the various park components. 
Mike Rupp questioned if the ﬁelds are ever rented, and Anita Scheipers 
conﬁrms that is an option and the fees are used to pay for expenses. 
Tanya Dall asks if there are any plans to implement any summer school 
programs at that location. Karin Menard hopes that the town will get behind 
the mission of having the recreation director become full-time and she would 
be able to run programming. This would be a prime location for outdoor 
activities.  
Jay Simeone shares his concern regarding maintenance and operational 
 costs. 
Rhonda Lizio, 181 Reservoir Road, questions how much money has already 
been spent on the project. Karin Menard conﬁrms that $50,000 from capital 
plan has been approved. At the special town meeting $184,000 was 
allocated. Lastly, $250,000 of ARPA funds have been used. 
c. Other Monied Articles 
   The Town Manager conﬁrmed that other monied articles would be all free 
   cash transfers and those are up in the air until Tuesday. 
 
  d. Administrative, Unclassiﬁed and Debt 
    There is $393,881.14 in the reduced debt services this year.  $284,412 of that 
   total is being used to oƯset the capital program. The remaining $109,469 will 
  be used to balance the budget. 
7. Public Hearing 
  There was a motion to open public meeting by Jay Simeone, seconded by Ana 
 Lockwood. 
John Bowen,162 Highland Street, states that the Committee is tasked with making a 
budget as an advisory committee for the citizens and shouldn’t be by what everyone 
department wants.  
Glenn Mcleod, 436 Reservoir Road, disagrees with the building plan proposal. There 
has been a lot of talk about aƯordable housing and the housing crisis. The real 
conversation should be aƯordable living. It is becoming very unaƯordable to live in 
===PAGE 4===
Massachusetts. There are so many demands on individual budgets as it is. His 
primary concern is to make the municipal employees feel appreciated and that they 
receive fair pay.  
Dave Passios, a former Lunenburg resident, former member of the ﬁnance 
committee, presently located in JeƯerson, New Hampshire, questioned if there is 
another public hearing date scheduled. Chris Menard conﬁrms there will be another 
public hearing scheduled for March 27th or April 3rd. 
There was a motion to close public hearing by Jay Simeone, seconded by Ana 
 Lockwood. 
8. New Business 
  a. Outline Finance Committee Annual Report 
   Chris Menard conﬁrms there needs to be a decision about prop 2½, levy  
  limits, excluded debt and policies. If any Committee member has ideas,  
  they should email them to Chris Menard. 
9. Old Business 
  a. FY26 Budget Discussions* 
  b. FY26 Warrant Articles 
  c. Budget Task Force Recommendations 
10. Minutes 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes from February 20, 2025, by Jay Simeone, 
 seconded by Jean Russell.  
11. Committee Reports 
  Chris Menard suggest that the Committee watch the joint meeting with the School 
 Committee and the Select Board. 
12. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  The school department will be returning on March 20, 2025. There was a vote last 
 night and the ﬁnal decision about the allocation of money will be presented to the 
 Committee. 
13. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Thursday 3/20/2025 
  b. Thursday 3/27/2025 
14. Public Comment 
  Karin Menard, 672 Page Street, encourages departments to apply for grants. The 
 mass oƯice on disability oƯers an ADA improvement grant that can be applied to  
 planning and projects. In FY 2024, $3,932,321 were allocated to communities. For 
 FY 2025 the ADA improvement grant totaled $4,910,668. This consisted of 59 grants, 
===PAGE 5===
 25 for planning and 34 for projects. Karin Menard agrees with Michael Ray JeƯreys 
 that all town buildings need to be accessible to residents. Additionally, she would 
 like to see more space for meetings. 
Jay Simeone references the availability for grant writing services. That money was to 
be used to contact consulting companies that write grants with the expertise to 
make it easier to get the grants.  
15. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tanya Dall. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 10:34 PM. 
 
 