===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Tri-Board Meeting 
Chris Menard, Chair 
Jean Russell, Vice-Chair 
Tom Gray, Clerk 
Jay Simeone 
Tanya Dall 
Ana Lockwood 
Mike Rupp 
 Monday, January 12, 2026  
7:00 PM 
Lunenburg Middle / High School 
Town of Lunenburg 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
978.582.4148 
 
Agenda 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the 
Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-
Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised that the Town of 
Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI 
Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated 
immediately upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting 
and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meeting. 
Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be 
suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with 
particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: 
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free 
number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174- 0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail 
address.  Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. V otes may be taken as a 
result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent 
permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
1. Tri-Board Call to Order 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. New Business 
a. Preliminary Budget Presentation Under the Following Categories: 
General Government, Unclassified, Debt Service, Intergovernmental 
b. Preliminary Revenue Projections 
c. Preliminary FY27 Budget Plan Discussions 
4. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
a. Tri-Board Meetings – January 26, 2026 
b. Finance Committee – February 5, 2026 
5. Adjourn 
Note:  
a) References to the Tri-Board and Tri-Chair in the context of this meeting refer to Finance Committee, School Committee and Select Board 
b) Material discussed in the Tri-Board Meetings may be further deliberated in future, individual Committee meetings 
c) The agenda has a lot of material so Public Comment periods have not been included.  Please feel free to reach out with comments to 
members of Finance Committee or make Public Comments at future Finance Committee Meetings.  Email addresses for Finance 
Committee members may be found at the following link:  https://lunenburgma.gov/252/Finance-Committee 
