===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
February 5, 2026 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, 
Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp, Committee 
Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Committee Member Tanya Dall 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 6:59 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Chris Menard requested Monty Tech come before the Committee and provide their 
 presentation earlier than usual. 
 The Stormwater Task Force will be presenting a warrant article to establish a 
 stormwater utility. They will also provide a presentation in front of the Finance 
 Committee.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Karen Barrett was introduced as the town’s new Finance Director/Town Accountant. 
 She will be providing a quarterly report to the Finance Committee beginning with FY 
 26 Q3. Additionally, the school Business Manager, Christopher McNamara, will be 
 presenting quarterly reports to the Committee.  
Town Manager conﬁrms that interviews are ongoing to ﬁll the Payroll and Beneﬁts 
 Coordinator position. 
  The schools have oƯicially taken control of and will process their payroll starting in 
 January.  
 Jennifer Warren Dyment spoke to the Division of Local Services regarding 
 Schedule A reports. They were due to be submitted by February 13, but the town 
 did receive an extension until February 28. 
The Town Manager discussed free cash and the ongoing process to get it certiﬁed. 
 Karen Brochu has reconciled the due to and due from accounts. There were several 
===PAGE 2===
 errors that were encountered in this process. Next steps include reconciling free 
 cash and receivables. Karen Brochu did note that this process has not been 
 completed since the close out of FY24. The last step is to verify incumbrances and 
 show activity on the funds for the current ﬁscal year.  
The FY 27 budget cycle including health insurance, retirement assessment and 
school transportation have exceeded the revenue growth. 
Town Manager and the ﬁnance department are continuing to work on establishing a 
baseline and conﬁrmed a level service budget. 
Department heads have contacted the Town Manager to request guidance regarding 
 the Committee’s expectations for their departmental presentations. Chris Menard 
 previously requested a summary of key services, functions, and duties of the  
 department, and organizational charts for each department. Chris Menard 
 additionally suggested a report on grants and line-item transfers. The Committee 
 also suggests obtaining the status of previous capital projects.   
Chris Menard shared his frustration with the organizational deﬁciencies in the town. 
 Jennifer Warren-Dyment believes that once the Zoom issue is ﬁxed then this 
 problem will be resolved. 
6. Current Business 
  a. Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School Budgets 
   Superintendent Tom Brown and Business Manager Tammy Crockett provided  
  their budget. Additionally, the Lunenburg representative Stephanie Quinn  
  was also present. 
In FY26 there was a total of 1403 students that attended Monty Tech and 97 
of those are Lunenburg residents.  A total of 18 communities contribute 
towards their budget. The required minimum Lunenburg is expected to 
contribute is $1,378,183.  The FY 27 foundation budget for Lunenburg is 
$2,251,179. 
There are many factors that contribute to the projected numbers including, 
 DESE funds, special education district rates, total number of English 
 learners, and low income. 
Tammy Crockett states that DESE determines how much local communities 
contribute using their calculations and formula. The calculation includes half 
the income for town residents and half of the value of the property value in 
the town.  
===PAGE 3===
Ana Lockwood questioned why the transportation assessment raised so 
much. Tammy Crockett conﬁrms it is higher because of the above net 
speeding component. This is due to the athletic complex renovation.  
Ana Lockwood inquired about the lottery.  Tom Brown states students need 
to ﬁll out an application that is added to the lottery. The school also factors in 
the attendance of students. Chris Menard questions how many Lunenburg 
students were turned away. Tammy Crockett is unsure of the exact number. 
Chris Menard inquires about the district agreement whether it’s indeﬁnite or 
if it can be renegotiated. Tom Brown believes the agreement is ongoing. He is 
also aware of some amendments, but they are very rare. 
Chris Menard questions what if anything can be done to reduce the 
contribution that Lunenburg needs to pay. Tom Brown states there is 
potential to change but that requires a change to the formula. Tom Brown 
believes there needs to be more pressure on the representative for there to 
be a change.  
b. Stormwater Task Force (Potential Joint Meeting) 
   The presentation was provided by Tim Willsmer, Jenny Pewtherer, John Beale  
  and DPW Director Bill Bernard. 
Stormwater utilities would operate as a dedicated enterprise fund and is 
supported by property assessments based on contribution of storm water to 
each of those properties that go into the municipal system. A stormwater 
utility can be used as a stable source of revenue that can be used to create 
the enterprise fund.   
 Stormwater is run oƯ that comes from all properties after rain or melting 
snow. This run oƯ picks up litter, bacteria, chemicals, sand and other debris. 
It then ﬂows over land into the drainage system and into the bodies of water. 
The 3 major recreational lakes in town are Hickory Hills Lake, Shirley Lake 
and Lake Whalom. 
Majority of funds will be used to remain in compliance with the MS4 permit. 
There are 6 minimum control measures that need to be implemented.   
 1. Public education and outreach 
  2. Public involvement and participation 
  3. Elicit discharge and elimination 
  4. Stormwater run-oƯ controls 
  5. Post construction stormwater management 
===PAGE 4===
  6. Pollution prevention and good housekeeping for municipal 
 operations 
Additional requirements include catch basin cleaning, roadway sweeping, 
future requirements, stream restoration, new stormwater bmps, develop 
pesticide, herbicide and fertilizer program. 
Currently, these requirements are being funded through the DPW operation 
budget. The total cost for this line item is $110,000. This only covers public 
outreach, elicit discharge detection training, BMP inspections, engineering 
for some small projects. 
There are multiple punishments and violations if all MS4 permit requirements 
aren’t met.  
In order to be in compliance there needs to be an additional $496,793.  
A project manager position would need to be implemented. Their duties 
would include billing, documentation, inspecting work of contractors and 
personnel, help develop contract specs for stormwater related projects.  
Bill Berand suggests that a total of $336,650 would be needed to start the 
utility. There is an engineering fee for the MS4 permit totaling $25,000. There 
are 1,000 know catch basins and the estimated cleaning cost is $81,250. 
There are 72 miles of mandatory roads that need to be swept twice a year. 
The estimated cost for roadway sweeping is $230,400.  
Ana Lockwood inquires about the machine that is needed to clean catch 
basins. Bill Bernard states it is a clamshell type machine. Aside from the 
initial cost there would also need to be an employee hired to operate. 
The proposed residential single-family home will pay less than $100 per year. 
All other properties will be on a tiered structure based on how much 
impervious area there is on the property.  
Ana Lockwood believes it may be counter productive to hire support staƯ 
and an engineer. The town has had an ongoing relationship with an 
engineering ﬁrm for the past 8 years.  
Tom Gray questions if the DPW was able to aƯord the $400,000 to get in 
compliance if they have the staƯing capacity. Bill Bernard states the work 
would need to be put out to contract.  
===PAGE 5===
Jaurice Smith conﬁrmed there are a lot of communities that set up a utility 
that do hire someone dedicated to stormwater work. More speciﬁcally, a 
storm water manager or stormwater engineer.  In the near future, there will be 
a new permit that is much more extensive.  
Chris Menard suggests having discussions with similar towns and look into 
regionalizing. More speciﬁcally sharing equipment between municipalities. 
Jaurice Smith has worked with other towns that have regional agreements to 
share equipment.  
Chris Menard wants the task force to look into outsourcing. 
Jay Simeone inquires what percentage the town is currently in compliance 
with. Bill Bernard suggests they may be 50% in compliance at the moment. 
There was a motion to adjourn the Stormwater Task Force meeting by Jenny 
Pewtherer, seconded by John Beale. 
c. Initial Town Manager’s Capital Plan 
    There were 22 projects considered by the Capital Planning Committee for  
  FY27 totaling $3,267,208. 
The highest ranking projects are as follows:  
  Flat Hill Road bridge completing including engineering and   
   construction costs - $350,000. 
   Replacement of police patrol cruiser - $68,627 
   Replacement of Engine 2 brush truck - $335,000 
   Primary school entry and driveway expansion design - $25,000 
   Building roof repair at the Public Safety building - $494,500 
   Replacement of front end loader with snow plow - $259,000 
   The total cost for the above projects is $1,532,127. 
There was a discussion about the snow and ice deﬁcit spending. As of 
January 30, there have been 18 snow/ice events. The budget was originally 
set at $355,571.39 but to date the budget has exceeded $523,418.07. 
There will be a presentation on February 23 at 5PM at the Eagle House Adult 
Activity Center to discuss the potential ﬁre department shift change. 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment spoke to the Facilities Director, Chris Ruth about the 
TC Passios building. He estimated the yearly operating costs to keep this 
building open is $120,000.  There will need to be further discussion and an 
ultimate decision be made. 
===PAGE 6===
Regarding grant applications, Bill Bernard submitted a community culvert 
grant application in the amount of $150,000 to support the design phase of 
Goodrich Street culvert over Easter Brook.  
Jennifer Warren-Dyment submitted a community compact IT grant 
application with the assistant of Casey Chisholm. The grant would cover the 
full upgraded network at the adult activity center, new ﬁrewall switches, and 
new wiﬁ access points.  
d. Discussions on potential FY27 Prop 2 ½ Override 
    The warrant for Spring Town meeting is currently open now through March 16, 
   2026. 
e. TriBoard discussions (Prior and Upcoming) 
    There was no discussion regarding this topic. 
7. Old Business 
  There was no discussion about any old business.  
8. Minutes (1/8/2026) 
  The minutes from January 8, 2026, were not reviewed. 
9. Committee Assignments and Report 
  This topic was not discussed. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There were no actions or topics to add to future agendas. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings – February 9 
  b. Finance Committee – February 12 
12. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Jay Simeone. 
The meeting closed at 10:57 PM.  