===PAGE 1===
Devens Regional Household Hazardous Products Collection Center 
Oversight Committee August 23, 2011, Meeting Minutes 
 
Attendees: 
 Dave Blazon (Devens), Jim Clyde (Littleton), Tessa David (Program Manager), Don Klein 
(Townsend), Don Lowe (Bolton), Dona Neely (Project Manger), Orlando Pacheco (Lancaster), 
Andy Sheehan (Townsend/V), Laura Williams (Lunenburg) 
 Member towns not represented: Ayer, Groton, Harvard 
 
Welcome: 
 Dave facilitated the meeting as the Chairperson. 
o MOTION:  Andy made a motion to accept the minutes from the August 11 meeting, 
Laura seconded and the motion passed unanimously. 
 
Operations: 
 Dona told attendees that a customer unknowingly brought a potentially explosive material to 
the last collection that needed to be detonated. After Tessa reviewed with the Fire Chief and 
Clean Harbors rep, the brochure and website were updated to emphasize that a DevensHHW 
representative should be contacted prior to bringing a material that is not listed as accepted. 
Additionally, operational procedures were strengthened to emphasize that a customer should be 
instructed not to depart the site until all products have been examined and deemed acceptable. 
 Updated versions of Tessa’s and Susan’s contracts were reviewed. Tessa requested that the 
reference to insurance coverage not being required of her be removed in Section 9 Insurance. 
Orlando reminded attendees in previous discussions OC members agreed that the additional 
cost of the insurances were not justifiable given the minimal related risks.  
 MOTION:  Andy made a motion to approve Tessa’s contract with the striking of 
references to Workers Comp and Errors and Omissions insurance coverage; Don 
seconded and the motion passed unanimously.  Dona suggested that the responsibility of 
issuing annual invoices to member towns be added under the Scope of Services. 
 MOTION:  Orlando made a motion to approve the revised version of Susan’s (load 
estimator) contract; Andy seconded and the motion passed unanimously.  
 Dona asked Tessa about her pursuit of being bonded; she had not yet done this. Orlando 
suggested that she investigate the opportunity to do this as a “public official;” Laura agreed and 
suggested that Chuck (Lunenburg town employee) might be of assistance.  
 ACTION ITEM: Tessa agreed to make an effort to get bonded before next collection.  
 Tessa updated attendees on website enhancements and her distribution of the outreach brochure 
to town department heads. 
 Dona distributed copies of the DVD of the Ribbon Cutting Ceremony. 
 ACTION ITEM: Members should encourage local cable stations to air the video 
frequently to increase awareness of the new service. 
 Dona reminded attendees of the plan for towns to actively promoting the Collection Center and 
service dates. She suggested that the nine towns take turns over the following four months to 
more evenly disperse the number of HHW customers. Attendees agreed and shared ideas to use 
their town’s flashing sign, town center announcement board, email updates, and other mediums. 
 ACTION ITEM: Ayer, Bolton, Devens to execute extra marketing activities prior to 
September 7/10 collections. Groton and Harvard will promote prior to October 5/8, 
===PAGE 2===
Lancaster and Littleton will highlight the Center before November 2/5, and Lunenburg 
and Townsend before December 7/10 events. 
 
Next Steps:  
 Dona informed members that she and Tessa followed up with the towns that investment and 
membership fee estimates had been provided and that Ashby, Berlin and Pepperell expressed 
concern around being able to secure sufficient funds this fiscal year. Jim suggested that an 
option to pay the capital investment over two years be offered. Orlando suggested that these 
towns and others would likely become more interested in joining to help meet EPA’s MS4 
stormwater regulations. 
 MOTION: Orlando made the motion that potential new members be offered the option 
to pay their capital obligation over the course of two years; Don seconded and the 
motion passed unanimously.   
 ACTION ITEM: Dona will contact Berlin and Pepperell and Tessa will contact Ashby 
to discuss this opportunity. 
 Dave stated that he hoped to have the time to invest in the pursuit of a roof after planned 9/11 
memorial activities. 
 Dona revisited the strategy to not update the operational budget to include newly identified 
expenses and adjustments.  Attendees agreed to leave the budget as previously approved.   
 
Next meeting date: confirmed for October 13, 8:30a. 
 