===PAGE 1===
940 CMR: OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
 
940 CMR 29.00: OPEN MEETINGS  
 
Section  
29.01: Purpose, Scope and Other General Provisions  
29.02: Definitions  
29.03: Notice Posting Requirements  
29.04: Certification  
29.05: Complaints  
29.06: Investigation  
29.07: Resolution  
29.08: Advisory Opinions  
29.09: Other Enforcement Actions  
29.10: Remote Participation  
29.11: Meeting Minutes 
 
29.01: Purpose, Scope and Other General Provisions  
 
(1) Purpose. The purpose of 940 CMR 29.00 is to interpret, enforce and effectuate the purposes 
of the Open Meeting Law, M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.  
 
(2) Severability. If any provision of 940 CMR 29.00 or the application of such provision to any 
person, public body, or circumstances shall be held invalid, the validity of the remainder of 940 
CMR 29.00 and the applicability of such provision to other persons, public bodies, or 
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.  
 
(3) Mailing. All complaints, notices (except meeting notices), and other materials that must be 
sent to another party shall be sent by one of the following means: first class mail, email, hand 
delivery, or by any other means at least as expeditious as first class mail.  
 
29.02: Definitions  
 
As used in 940 CMR 29.00, the following terms shall, unless the context clearly requires 
otherwise, have the following meanings:  
 
County Public Body means a public body created by county government with jurisdiction that 
comprises a single county. 
 
District Public Body means a public body with jurisdiction that extends to two or more 
municipalities.  
 
Emergency means a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding 
immediate action.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Intentional Violation means an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in 
knowing violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25 shall include, but not be limited to, that the public body or 
public body member: (a) acted with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from 
a court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 CMR 
29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Where a 
public body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the law, 
but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be considered an 
intentional violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.  
 
Person means all individuals and entities, including governmental officials and employees. 
Person does not include public bodies.  
 
Post Notice means to place a written announcement of a meeting on a bulletin board, electronic 
display, website, or in a loose-leaf binder in a manner conspicuously visible to the public, 
including persons with disabilities, at all hours, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03.  
 
Public Body has the identical meaning as set forth in M.G.L. c. 30A, § 18, that is, a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose; provided, however, that the 
governing board of a local housing, redevelopment or other similar authority shall be deemed a 
local public body; provided, further, that the governing board or body of any other authority 
established by the general court to serve a public purpose in the commonwealth or any part 
thereof shall be deemed a state public body; provided, further, that "public body" shall not 
include the general court or the committees or recess commissions thereof, bodies of the judicial 
branch or bodies appointed by a constitutional officer solely for the purpose of advising a 
constitutional officer and shall not include the board of bank incorporation or the policyholders 
protective board; and provided further, that a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member 
body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.  
 
Qualification for Office means the election or appointment of a person to a public body and the 
taking of the oath of office, where required, and shall include qualification for a second or any 
subsequent term of office. Where no term of office for a member of a public body is specified, 
the member shall be deemed to be qualified for office on a biennial basis following appointment 
or election to office.   
 
Regional Public Body means a public body with jurisdiction that extends to two or more 
municipalities. 
 
Remote Participation means participation by a member of a public body during a meeting of that 
public body where the member is not physically present at the meeting location.  
 
29.03: Notice Posting Requirements  
 
===PAGE 3===
(1) Requirements Applicable to All Public Bodies.  
 
(a) Except in an emergency, public bodies shall file meeting notices sufficiently in 
advance of a public meeting to permit posting of the notice at least 48 hours in advance 
of the public meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, in accordance 
with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20. In an emergency, the notice shall be posted as soon as 
reasonably possible prior to such meeting.  
 
(b) Meeting notices shall be printed or displayed in a legible, easily understandable 
format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting, and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. The list of topics 
shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  
 
(c) Notices posted under an alternative posting method authorized by 940 CMR 29.03(2) 
through (5) shall include the same content as required by 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). If such 
an alternative posting method is adopted, the municipal clerk, in the case of a 
municipality, or the body, in all other cases, shall file with the Attorney General written 
notice of adoption of the alternative method, including the website address where 
applicable, and any change thereto, and the most current notice posting method on file 
with the Attorney General shall be consistently used.  
 
(d) The date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded 
thereon or therewith.  If an amendment occurs within 48 hours of a meeting, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, then the date and time that the meeting 
notice is amended shall also be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.  
 
(2) Requirements Specific to Local Public Bodies.  
 
(a) The official method of posting notice shall be by filing with the municipal clerk, or 
other person designated by agreement with the municipal clerk, who shall post notice of 
the meeting in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in, on, or near the 
municipal building in which the clerk's office is located.  
 
(b) Alternatively, the municipality may adopt the municipal website as the official 
method of notice posting.  
 
1. The Chief Executive Officer of the municipality, as defined in M.G.L. c. 4, § 
7, must authorize or, by a simple majority, vote to adopt the municipal website 
as the official method of posting notice.  Any municipality that has adopted its 
website as the official method of posting notice by another method as of 
October 6, 2017 will have satisfied the adoption requirement. 
 
2. If adopted, a description of the website as the notice posting method, 
including directions on how to locate notices on the website, shall be posted in 
a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the 
===PAGE 4===
main and handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which 
the clerk's office is located.   
 
3. Once adopted as the official method of notice posting, the website shall host 
the official legal notice for meetings of all public bodies within the 
municipality.  
 
4. Notices must continue to be filed with the municipal clerk, or any other person 
designated by agreement with the municipal clerk. 
 
(c) A municipality may have only one official notice posting method for the purpose of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, either 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a) or (b). However, nothing 
precludes a municipality from choosing to post additional notices via other methods, 
including a newspaper. Such additional notice will not be the official notice for the 
purposes of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.  
 
(d) Copies of notices shall also be accessible to the public in the municipal clerk's office 
during the clerk's business hours. 
 
(3) Requirements Specific to Regional or District Public Bodies.  
 
(a) Notice shall be filed and posted in each city and town within the region or district in 
the manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town.  
 
(b) As an alternative method of notice, a regional or district public body may, by majority 
vote, adopt the regional or district public body's website as its official notice posting 
method. A copy of each meeting notice shall be kept by the chair of the public body or 
the chair's designee in accordance with the applicable records retention schedules. The 
public body shall file and post notice of the website address, as well as directions on how 
to locate notices on the website, in each city and town within the region or district in the 
manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town. 
 
(4) Requirements Specific to Regional School Districts.  
 
(a) The secretary of the regional school district committee shall be considered to be its 
clerk. The clerk of the regional school district committee shall file notice with the 
municipal clerk of each city and town within such district and each such municipal clerk 
shall post the notice in the manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town.  
 
(b) As an alternative method of notice, a regional school district committee may, by 
majority vote, adopt the regional school district's website as its official notice posting 
method. A copy of each meeting notice shall be kept by the secretary of the regional 
school district committee or the secretary's designee in accordance with the applicable 
records retention schedules. The regional school district committee shall file and post 
notice of the website address, as well as directions on how to locate notices on the 
===PAGE 5===
website, in each city and town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for 
local public bodies in that city or town. 
 
(5) Requirements Specific to County Public Bodies.  
 
(a) Notice shall be filed and posted in the office of the county commissioners and a copy 
of the notice shall be publicly posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at 
all hours in such place or places as the county commissioners shall designate for this 
purpose.  
 
(b) As an alternative method of notice, a county public body may, by majority vote, adopt 
the county public body's website as its official notice posting method. A copy of the 
notice shall be kept by the chair of the county public body or the chair's designee in 
accordance with the applicable records retention schedules. The county public body shall 
file and post notice of the website address, as well as directions on how to locate notices 
on the website, in the office of the county commissioners and a copy of the notice shall 
be publicly posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in such 
place or places as the county commissioners shall designate for this purpose.  
 
(6) Requirements Specific to State Public Bodies. Notice shall be posted on a website. A copy of 
each notice shall also be sent by first class or electronic mail to the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth's Regulations Division. The chair of each state public body shall notify the 
Attorney General in writing of its webpage for listing meeting notices and any change to the 
webpage location. The public body shall consistently use the most current website location on 
file with the Attorney General. A copy of the notice shall be kept by the chair of the state public 
body or the chair's designee in accordance with the applicable records retention schedules. 
 
(7) Websites. Where a public body adopts a website as its method of noticing meetings, it must 
make every effort to ensure that the website is accessible to the public at all hours. If a website 
becomes inaccessible to members of the public within 48 hours of a meeting, not including 
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the municipal clerk or other individual responsible for 
posting notice to the website must restore the website to accessibility within six hours of the 
time, during regular business hours, when such individual discovers that the website has become 
inaccessible.  In the event that the website is not restored to accessibility within six business 
hours of the website's deficiency being discovered, the public body must re-post notice of its 
meeting for another date and time in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
 
29.04: Certification  
 
(1) For local public bodies, the municipal clerk, and for all other public bodies, the appointing 
authority, executive director, or other appropriate administrator or their designees, shall, upon a 
public body member's qualification for office, either deliver to the public body member, or 
require the public body member to obtain from the Attorney General's website, the following 
educational materials: 
 
===PAGE 6===
(a) The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, which will include an explanation 
of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law; the Open Meeting Law, M.G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18 through 25; and the Attorney General's regulations, 940 CMR 29.00-29.11.  
 
(b) A copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to that public body by the 
Attorney General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a 
violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.  Open Meeting Law determinations are 
available at the Attorney General's website.    
 
(2) Educational materials may be delivered to public body members by paper copy or in digital 
form.  
 
(3) Within two weeks after receipt of the educational materials, the public body member shall 
certify, on the form prescribed by the Attorney General, receipt of the educational materials. The 
municipal clerk, appointing authority, executive director or other appropriate administrator, or 
their designees, shall maintain the signed certification for each such person, indicating the date 
the person received the materials. 
 
(4) An individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body 
on which he or she serves.  A public body member does not need to sign a separate certification 
when joining a subcommittee of the public body. 
 
(5) A public body member must sign a new certification upon reelection or reappointment to the 
public body. 
 
29.05: Complaints  
 
(1) All complaints shall be in writing, using the form approved by the Attorney General and 
available on the Attorney General's website. A public body need not, and the Attorney General 
will not, investigate or address anonymous complaints. A public body need not address a 
complaint that is not signed by the complainant. A public body need not address a complaint that 
is not filed using the Attorney General's complaint form.  
 
(2) Public bodies, or the municipal clerk in the case of a local public body, should provide any 
person, on request, with an Open Meeting Law Complaint Form. If a paper copy is unavailable, 
then the public body should direct the requesting party to the Attorney General's website, where 
an electronic copy of the form will be available for downloading and printing.  
 
(3)  For local public bodies, the complainant shall file the complaint with the chair of the public 
body, who shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body. The 
complainant shall also file a copy of the complaint with the municipal clerk, who shall keep such 
filings in an orderly fashion for public review on request during regular business hours. For all 
other public bodies, the complainant shall file the complaint with the chair of the relevant public 
body, or if there is no chair, then with the public body. 
 
===PAGE 7===
(4) The complaint shall be filed within 30 days of the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, or if the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, could not reasonably 
have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably 
have been discovered.  
 
(5) Within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an extension has been granted 
by the Attorney General as provided in 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b), the public body shall meet to 
review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken. The public body shall 
simultaneously notify the Attorney General that it has sent such materials to the complainant and 
shall provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description 
of any remedial action taken.  
 
(a) Any remedial action taken by the public body in response to a complaint under 940 
CMR 29.05(5) shall not be admissible as evidence that a violation occurred in any later 
administrative or judicial proceeding against the public body relating to the alleged 
violation.  
 
(b) If the public body requires additional time to resolve the complaint, it may obtain an 
extension from the Attorney General by submitting a written request within 14 business 
days after receiving the complaint. A request may be submitted by the chair, the public 
body's attorney, or any person designated by the public body or the chair. The Attorney 
General will grant an extension if the request demonstrates good cause. Good cause will 
generally be found if, for example, the public body cannot meet within the 14 business 
day period to consider proposed remedial action. The Attorney General shall notify the 
complainant of any extension and the reason for it.  
 
(6) If the public body needs additional information to resolve the complaint, then the chair may 
request it from the complainant within seven business days of receiving the complaint. The 
complainant shall respond within ten business days after receiving the request. The public body 
will then have an additional ten business days after receiving the complainant's response to 
review the complaint and take any remedial action pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
 
(7) If at least 30 days have passed after the complaint was filed with the public body, and if the 
complainant is unsatisfied with the public body's resolution of the complaint, the complainant 
may file a complaint with the Attorney General. When filing a complaint with the Attorney 
General, the complainant shall include a copy of the original complaint along with any other 
materials the complainant believes are relevant. The Attorney General shall decline to investigate 
complaints filed with the Attorney General more than 90 days after the alleged violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, or if the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 90 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered.  However, this time may be extended if the Attorney 
General grants an extension to the public body to respond to a complaint or if the complainant 
demonstrates good cause for the delay in filing with the Attorney General.  
 
===PAGE 8===
(8) The Attorney General shall acknowledge receipt of all complaints and will resolve them 
within a reasonable period of time, generally 90 days. 
 
(9) Mediation to Resolve a Complaint. 
 
(a) If a complainant files five complaints alleging violations of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, with the same public body or within the same municipality within 12 months, 
upon the fifth or subsequent complaint to that public body or a public body within that 
municipality within the 12-month period, the public body may request mediation with the 
complainant, at the public body's expense, to resolve the complaint.  A mediator is 
defined by M.G.L. c. 233, § 23C, and will be selected by the Attorney General.  
 
(b) A public body must request mediation prior to, or with, its response to the complaint. 
If the mediation does not produce an agreement, the public body will have ten business 
days from the last joint meeting with the mediator to respond to the complaint.  
 
(c) A public body may participate in mediation in open session, in executive session 
through M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(9), or by designating a representative to participate on 
behalf of the public body. 
 
(d) If the complainant declines to participate in mediation after a public body's request in 
accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a), the Attorney General may decline to review the 
complaint if it is thereafter filed with the Attorney General. 
 
(e) If the mediation does not resolve the complaint to the satisfaction of both parties, then 
the complainant may file a copy of his or her complaint with the Attorney General and 
request the Attorney General's review. The complaint must be filed with the Attorney 
General within 30 days of the last joint meeting with the mediator.  
 
(f) Any written agreement reached in mediation shall become a public record in its 
entirety and must be publicly disclosed at the next meeting of the public body following 
execution of the agreement.  
 
(g) Nothing in this section shall prevent a complainant from filing subsequent complaints, 
however public bodies may continue to request mediation in an effort to resolve 
complaints in accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a). 
 
(h) Nothing in this section shall prevent a public body or complainant from seeking 
mediation to resolve any complaint. However, only mediation requests that follow the 
requirements of 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a) will trigger the application of 940 CMR 
29.05(9)(d). 
 
29.06: Investigation  
 
===PAGE 9===
Following a timely complaint filed pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05, where the Attorney General has 
reasonable cause to believe that a violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, has occurred, 
then the Attorney General may conduct an investigation.  
 
(1) The Attorney General shall notify the public body or person that is the subject of a complaint 
of the existence of the investigation within a reasonable period of time. The Attorney General 
shall also notify the public body or person of the nature of the alleged violation.  
 
(2) Upon notice of the investigation, the subject of the investigation shall provide the Attorney 
General with all information relevant to the investigation. The subject may also submit a 
memorandum or other writing to the Attorney General, addressing the allegations being 
investigated.  
 
If the subject of the investigation fails to voluntarily provide the necessary or relevant 
information within 30 days of receiving notice of the investigation, the Attorney General may 
issue one or more civil investigative demands to obtain the information in accordance with 
M.G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a), to:  
 
(a) Take testimony under oath;  
 
(b) Examine or cause to be examined any documentary material; or  
 
(c) Require attendance during such examination of documentary material by any person 
having knowledge of the documentary material and take testimony under oath or 
acknowledgment in respect of any such documentary material.  
 
Any documentary material or other information produced by any person pursuant to 940 CMR 
29.06 shall not, unless otherwise ordered by a court of the Commonwealth for good cause 
shown, be disclosed without that person's consent by the Attorney General to any person other 
than the Attorney General's authorized agent or representative. However, the Attorney General 
may disclose the material in court pleadings or other papers filed in court; or, to the extent 
necessary, in an administrative hearing or in a written determination to resolve the investigation 
pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07.  
 
29.07: Resolution  
 
(1) No Violation. If the Attorney General determines, after investigation, that M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18 through 25, has not been violated, the Attorney General shall issue a written determination to 
the subject of the complaint and copy any complainant.  
 
(2) Violation Resolved Without Hearing. If the Attorney General determines after investigation 
that M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, has been violated, the Attorney General may resolve the 
investigation without a hearing. The Attorney General shall determine whether the relevant 
public body, one or more of its members, or both, were responsible. The Attorney General will 
notify, in writing, any complainant of the investigation's resolution. Upon finding a violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, the Attorney General may take one of the following actions:  
===PAGE 10===
 
(a) Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or 
other appropriate form of written communication that explains the violation and clarifies 
the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, providing the subject 
with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.  
 
(b) Formal Order. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a formal 
order. The order may require:  
 
1. immediate and future compliance with M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25; 
  
2. attendance at a training session authorized by the Attorney General;  
 
3. nullification of any action taken at the relevant meeting, in whole or in part; 
 
4. that minutes, records or other materials be made public;   
 
5. that an employee be reinstated without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure 
or other benefits; or 
 
6. other appropriate action.  
 
Orders shall be available on the Attorney General's website.  
 
(3) Violation Resolved After Hearing. The Attorney General may conduct a hearing where the 
Attorney General deems appropriate. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to 801 CMR 1.00, 
et seq., as modified by any regulations issued by the Attorney General. At the conclusion of the 
hearing, the Attorney General shall determine whether a violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, occurred and whether the public body, one or more of its members, or both, were 
responsible. The Attorney General will notify, in writing, any complainant of the investigation's 
resolution. Upon a finding that a violation occurred, the Attorney General may order:  
 
(a) immediate and future compliance with M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25;  
 
(b) attendance at a training session authorized by the Attorney General;  
 
(c) nullification of any action taken at the relevant meeting, in whole or in part;  
 
(d) imposition of a fine upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional 
violation; however, a fine will not be imposed where a public body or public body 
member acted in good faith compliance with the advice of the public body's legal 
counsel, in accordance with M.G.L. 30A, § 23(g); 
 
(e) that an employee be reinstated without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or other 
benefits;  
 
===PAGE 11===
(f) that minutes, records or other materials be made public; or  
 
(g) other appropriate action.  
 
Orders issued following a hearing shall be available on the Attorney General's website.  
 
(4) A public body subject to an order of the Attorney General following a written determination 
issued pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07 shall notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance 
with the order within 30 days of receipt of the order, unless otherwise indicated by the order 
itself.  A public body need not notify the Attorney General of its compliance with an order 
requiring solely immediate and future compliance pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(2)(b)(1) or 940 
CMR 29.07(3)(a).  
 
(5) A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by any order issued by the Attorney 
General under 940 CMR 29.07 may obtain judicial review of the order through an action in 
Superior Court seeking relief in the nature of certiorari. Any such action must be commenced in 
Superior Court within 21 days of receipt of the order.  
 
29.08: Advisory Opinions  
 
The Attorney General will generally not issue advisory opinions.  However, the Attorney 
General may issue written guidance to address common requests for interpretation.  Such written 
guidance will appear on the Attorney General's website. 
 
29.09: Other Enforcement Actions  
 
Nothing in 940 CMR 29.06 or 29.07 shall limit the Attorney General's authority to file a civil 
action to enforce M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f).  
 
29.10: Remote Participation  
 
(1) Preamble. Remote participation may be permitted subject to the following procedures and 
restrictions. However, the Attorney General strongly encourages members of public bodies to 
physically attend meetings whenever possible. By promulgating 940 CMR 29.10, the Attorney 
General hopes to promote greater participation in government. Members of public bodies have a 
responsibility to ensure that remote participation in meetings is not used in a way that would 
defeat the purposes of the M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, namely promoting transparency 
with regard to deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.  
 
(2) Adoption of Remote Participation. Remote participation in meetings of public bodies is not 
permitted unless the practice has been adopted as follows:  
 
(a) Local Public Bodies. The Chief Executive Officer, as defined in M.G.L. c. 4, § 7, 
must authorize or, by a simple majority, vote to allow remote participation in accordance 
with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that authorization or vote applying to all 
subsequent meetings of all local public bodies in that municipality.  
===PAGE 12===
 
(b) Regional or District Public Bodies. The regional or district public body must, by a 
simple majority, vote to allow remote participation in accordance with the requirements 
of 940 CMR 29.10, with that vote applying to all subsequent meetings of that public body 
and its committees.  
 
(c) Regional School Districts. The regional school district committee must, by a simple 
majority, vote to allow remote participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 
CMR 29.10, with that vote applying to all subsequent meetings of that public body and 
its committees.  
 
(d) County Public Bodies. The county commissioners must, by a simple majority, vote to 
allow remote participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with 
that vote applying to all subsequent meetings of all county public bodies in that county.  
 
(e) State Public Bodies. The state public body must, by a simple majority, vote to allow 
remote participation in accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that 
vote applying to all subsequent meetings of that public body and its committees.  
 
(f) Retirement Boards. A retirement board created pursuant to M.G.L. c. 32, § 20 or 
M.G.L. c. 34B, § 19 must, by a simple majority, vote to allow remote participation in 
accordance with the requirements of 940 CMR 29.10, with that vote applying to all 
subsequent meetings of that public body and its committees.  
 
(g) Local Commissions on Disability. In accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e), a local 
commission on disability may by majority vote of the commissioners at a regular meeting 
authorize remote participation applicable to a specific meeting or generally to all of the 
commission's meetings. If a local commission on disability is authorized to utilize remote 
participation, a physical quorum of that commission's members shall not be required to 
be present at the meeting location; provided, however, that the chair or, in the chair's 
absence, the person authorized to chair the meeting, shall be physically present at the 
meeting location. The commission shall comply with all other requirements of law. 
 
(3) Revocation of Remote Participation. Any person or entity with the authority to adopt remote 
participation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.10(2) may revoke that adoption in the same manner.  
 
(4) Minimum Requirements for Remote Participation.  
 
(a) Members of a public body who participate remotely and all persons present at the 
meeting location shall be clearly audible to each other, as required by M.G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(d);  
 
(b) A quorum of the body, including the chair or, in the chair's absence, the person 
authorized to chair the meeting, shall be physically present at the meeting location, as 
required by M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d);  
 
===PAGE 13===
(c) Members of public bodies who participate remotely may vote and shall not be deemed 
absent for the purposes of M.G.L. c. 39, § 23D.  
 
(5) Permissible Reason for Remote Participation. If remote participation has been adopted in 
accordance with 940 CMR 29.10(2), a member of a public body shall be permitted to participate 
remotely in a meeting, in accordance with the procedures described in 940 CMR 29.10(7), only 
if physical attendance would be unreasonably difficult.  
 
(6) Technology.  
 
(a) The following media are acceptable methods for remote participation. Remote 
participation by any other means is not permitted. Accommodations shall be made for 
any public body member who requires TTY service, video relay service, or other form of 
adaptive telecommunications.  
 
i. telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing;  
 
ii. any other technology that enables the remote participant and all persons present 
at the meeting location to be clearly audible to one another.  
 
(b) When video technology is in use, the remote participant shall be clearly visible to all 
persons present in the meeting location.  
 
(c) The public body shall determine which of the acceptable methods may be used by its 
members.  
 
(d) The chair or, in the chair's absence, the person chairing the meeting, may decide how 
to address technical difficulties that arise as a result of utilizing remote participation, but 
is encouraged, wherever possible, to suspend discussion while reasonable efforts are 
made to correct any problem that interferes with a remote participant's ability to hear or 
be heard clearly by all persons present at the meeting location. If technical difficulties 
result in a remote participant being disconnected from the meeting, that fact and the time 
at which the disconnection occurred shall be noted in the meeting minutes.  
 
(e) The amount and source of payment for any costs associated with remote participation 
shall be determined by the applicable adopting entity identified in 940 CMR 29.10(2).  
 
(7) Procedures for Remote Participation.  
 
(a) Any member of a public body who wishes to participate remotely shall, as soon as 
reasonably possible prior to a meeting, notify the chair or, in the chair's absence, the 
person chairing the meeting, of his or her desire to do so and the reason for and facts 
supporting his or her request.  
 
===PAGE 14===
(b) At the start of the meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any member who 
will be participating remotely. This information shall also be recorded in the meeting 
minutes.  
 
(c) All votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely shall be 
by roll call vote.  
 
(d) A member participating remotely may participate in an executive session, but shall 
state at the start of any such session that no other person is present and/or able to hear the 
discussion at the remote location, unless presence of that person is approved by a simple 
majority vote of the public body.  
 
(e) When feasible, the chair or, in the chair's absence, the person chairing the meeting, 
shall distribute to remote participants, in advance of the meeting, copies of any 
documents or exhibits that he or she reasonably anticipates will be used during the 
meeting. If used during the meeting, such documents shall be part of the official record of 
the meeting, and shall be listed in the meeting minutes and retained in accordance with 
M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22.  
 
(8) Further Restriction by Adopting Authority. 940 CMR 29.10 does not prohibit any person or 
entity with the authority to adopt remote participation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.10(2) from 
enacting policies, laws, rules or regulations that prohibit or further restrict the use of remote 
participation by public bodies within that person or entity's jurisdiction, provided those policies, 
laws, rules or regulations do not violate state or federal law.  
 
(9) Remedy for Violation. If the Attorney General determines, after investigation, that 940 CMR 
29.10 has been violated, the Attorney General may resolve the investigation by ordering the 
public body to temporarily or permanently discontinue its use of remote participation.  
 
29.11: Meeting Minutes 
 
(1) A public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes, in 
accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
(2) Minutes of all open and executive sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. 
A “timely manner” will generally be considered to be within the next three public body meetings 
or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay. The Attorney General encourages public bodies to approve minutes at the next meeting 
whenever possible.  
 
 
REGULATORY AUTHORITY 940 CMR 29.00: M.G.L. c. 30A, § 25(a) and (b). 
 