===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
January 29, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 16  
 
 
Allen Hoffman 
Chair, Board of Health 
Butterick Building 
1 Park Street 
Sterling, MA 01564 
 
By email only: ahoffman@wpi.edu  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Hoffman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Richard Lane on September 5, 2023, alleging that 
the Sterling Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 4, 2023, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 21, 2023.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the 
minutes of the Board meetings held on December 8, 2022, and August 15, 2023.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a three-member public body; thus, two 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
During a December 8, 2022, meeting, the Board approved revised regulations that would 
require a soil evaluation, prior to the sale of any property, to demonstrate that any septic system 
leach field was positioned above groundwater level.  Residents voiced their concerns with the 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
new regulation at subsequent Board meetings and thereafter initiated a citizen’s petition to “see if 
the Town will vote to urge the Board of Health to rescind” the revised regulation. 
 
On June 25, 2023, Health Agent David Favreau sent an email to all three Board members, 
who, at that time, were Chair Allen Hoffman, Catherine Martin, and Anne Marie Catalano.  The 
email stated: 
 
Good morning, 
 
Allen has worked on a notice (attached) to be posted in the Sterling Meetinghouse 
News and sent in the Sterling Light Dept. mailings to each residence. Within are 
the concerns some residence [sic] have spoken about, and are being addressed. 
During the past meetings each of you may have listened to or seen on social 
media other concerns that should be addressed and included into this document. 
 
Please review this draft make any necessary comments. Unfortunately we have 
short deadlines, but if there are any edits or further comments I will see to it that 
[sic] get included in and we meet this time frame. 
 
Either way please let me know if you are good or have additional comments for 
this document. 
 
The notice that was attached to the email pertained to the revised regulation requiring a 
soil evaluation that had been previously approved by the Board and attempted to correct 
misinformation that had been circulating about the regulation.
1  Board member Martin responded 
that same day by email to only Mr. Favreau with comments and suggested edits.  Board member 
Catalano responded that same day by email to Mr. Favreau and the other two Board members 
with comments and suggested edits.  The notice was mailed to all residents with their June 2023 
electric bills and placed in the local newspaper on July 12, 2023.    
 
During a meeting held on August 15, 2023, the Board discussed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint at issue here, admitted that the email communication from Ms. Catalano constituted 
deliberation, and publicly read aloud Ms. Catalano’s email that was sent to a quorum of the 
Board. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
 
1 We note that the notice and emails were provided to the complainant in response to a public records request and 
were provided to this office with the complainant’s request for further review. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an or al or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.”  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated by email.  On June 25, 
2023, Hea
lth Agent Favreau sent an email to the Board asking for comments or edits with 
respect to a document drafted by Chair Hoffman which provided information about the soil 
evaluation regulation.  Board members Martin and Catalano responded that same day with 
comments and suggestions; Ms. Martin responded only to Agent Favreau, while Ms. Catalano 
copied all Board members on her response.  We find, and the Board admits, that the email shared 
by Ms. Catalano contained improper deliberation because the email reached a quorum of the 
Board and included the member’s opinion on a matter within the Board’s jurisdiction.  See OML 
2018-118; 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 
479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).2  A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds.  See OML 2020-136; OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.  
Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating among a quorum via email.  We commend the 
Board for reading the contents of Ms. Catalano’s email aloud during the meeting held on August 
15, 2023.
3 
 
With respect to the email sent to the Board by Agent Favreau on June 25, 2023, we do 
not fi
nd this communication to be deliberation even though it included an attached document that 
was drafted by Chair Hoffman.  Although the attached document was sent to a quorum of the 
Board and pertained to the soil evaluation regulation that the Board had approved in December 
2022, we find that the document did not contain any of Chair Hoffman’s own opinions but rather 
summarized and shared factual information about the requirements of the regulation as well as 
Title 5 of the State Environmental Code.  See OML 2023-156.  We recognize that it can be 
difficult to determine whether, under the circumstances, a given communication constitutes 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
3 We note that the minutes of the August 15, 2023, meeting do not include a list of documents used by the Board 
during that meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions 
made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a)  (emphasis 
added).  The Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear 
that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a 
public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  From our review of 
the minutes, it appears that both Mr. Lane’s Open Meeting Law complaint and Ms. Catalano’s email were physically 
present, identified at the meeting, and the contents of those documents were discussed by members.  We encourage 
the Board to amend the minutes of the August 15, 2023, meeting to include the documents used at the meeting.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, and th erefore our office specifically cautions public 
bodies on the use of electronic communications.  See OML 2017-88; OML 2014-80.  Although 
we do not find a violation here, we remind the Board that a public body may not use a non-
member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication among public body members on 
matters that the public body would otherwise be required to save for discussion at an open 
meeting.  See District Atty. for the Northern Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
569-71 (2009); OML 2023-90; OML 2022-149.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email outside of a meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order all members of the Board to attend a webinar 
training on the Open Meeting Law conducted by our office within the next 60 days. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: 
  Richard Lane – By email only:   
Sterling Board of Health c/o Health Agent David Favreau – By email only: 
dfavreau@sterling-ma.gov  
 Sterling Town Clerk Kathy Farrell – By email only: kfarrell@sterling -ma.gov  
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
