===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 20, 2015 
OML 2015-173 
Douglas W. Heim, Town Counsel 
Town of Arlington 
50 Pleasant Street 
Arlington, MA 02476 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Heim: 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Loreti, dated August 3, alleging that 
the Arlington Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 27, and the Board responded 
by letter dated June 17. In his complaint, Mr. Loreti alleges that the Board failed to: (i) respond 
to his request for meeting minutes within the time frame required by law; and (ii) create and 
maintain meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed all 
documentation provided with these filings. Finally, we reviewed a letter, dated November 10, 
from Arlington Chief Technology Officer David Good. 
We find the facts as follows. On April 23, Mr. Loreti sent an e-mail to Board member 
Robert Greeley. This e-mail reads, in part, "I am writing to request the review of the minutes of 
the Board of Assessors for any meetings of the Board during the period April 25- August 31, 
2011. Agendas for several meetings of the Board during this period are posted on the town 
website, but no minutes are posted for any meetings of the board in 2011 before the month of 
September." The e-mail was sent to Mr. Greeley's Town of Arlington e-mail address. Caryn 
Malloy, Human Resources Director, was copied on the e-mail. Mr. Loreti did not receive any 
response to this e-mail. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
On May 7, Mr. Loreti sent a second e-mail to Mr. Greeley, using the same e-mail 
address. This time, the other two Board members were copied on the e-mail. The second e-mail 
states that Mr. Loreti had not received any response to his April 23 request for minutes and 
explains the Board is required to respond to such a request within 10 days. After sending this 
second e-mail, Mr. Loreti received an automatic response saying that Mr. Greeley's e-mail inbox 
was full and could not accept any additional correspondence. On May 8, Mr. Loreti sent an e-
mail to Paul Tiemey, Director of the Assessors' Office, asking that his request for minutes be 
relayed to Mr. Greeley. On this same date, Mr. Tierney stated that there had been some trouble 
with the Town's e-mail servers and asked that Mr. Loreti forward his original e-mail. On May 9, 
Mr. Loreti forwarded his original e-mail to David Good, Chief of Technology for the Town, 
stating that he had not yet received a response. On May 10, Mr. Good responded, stating, "I'll 
check it out." On May 11, Mr. Tiemey sent an e-mail to Mr. Loreti stating, "The Board of 
Assessors has received your request and will begin their search for the information that you have 
requested. The Assessors' office will contact you after their search has been completed." 
On May 19, Mr. Loreti sent an e-mail to Mr. Tierney stating that he had still not received 
a response to his original request. All three Board members were copied on this e-mail. On this 
same day, Mr. Tierney responded to Mr. Loreti by e-mail, stating, in part, "After a search of the 
records you requested, we were unable to locate the items." Board meetings were held during 
the time period at issue. 
Mr. Loreti filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board on May 27. In 
its response, the Board stated that Mr. Greeley could not access his Arlington e-mail account at 
the time Mr. Loreti's April 23 request was made. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law also requires that the "[mjinutes of all 
open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, 
if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any 
person within ten days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). When minutes do not exist, the body must 
respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying the requestor that requested minutes do not 
exist in either approved or draft form. See OML 2012-100. 2 
Mr. Loreti sent his initial request to Mr. Greeley on April 23. In its response, the Board 
stated that Mr. Greeley was unable to access this e-mail account at the time Mr. Loreti's initial 
request was sent. Because Mr. Greeley could not receive the request, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to it. Mr. Loreti's May 7 e-mail was 
sent to all Board members, and it is conceded by the Board that the other members were able to 
receive it. Mr. Tiemey's May 11 response came four days after the May 7 e-mail, and that e-
mail informed Mr. Loreti that the Board was attempting to locate the requested minutes. While 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
timely, we nevertheless find that this response was insufficient to satisfy the Board's obligations 
under the Open Meeting Law. When open session minutes are requested, a public body must 
either make the requested minutes available or state to the requestor that no minutes exist within 
10 days. See OML 2012-100. Here, the Board's substantive response to Mr. Loreti's minutes 
request came on May 19. While we recognize that the delay was caused by the Board's efforts 
to locate the requested minutes, we find that this failure to respond within the required timeframe 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Furthermore, because the Board cannot produce the requested minutes from the period of 
April 25 to August 31, 2011, we find that the Board failed to create and maintain minutes of 
those meetings. This violated the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-19,3 
We note, however, that the Board is currently in the process of recreating the minutes at issue to 
the best of its ability, using notes and the recollections of Board members. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. We acknowledge that the Board has already begun the process of recreating the missing 
meeting minutes at issue. We order the Board to complete this process of creating, approving, 
and releasing the missing minutes within thirty days following receipt of this letter. If any of the 
meetings at issue were executive sessions the minutes of which the Board intends to withhold 
from disclosure, then the Board must, within thirty days, provide the complainant with a written 
statement of the reasons that the executive session minutes are not subject to disclosure. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Christopher Loreti 
Arlington Board of Assessors 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 The Board's response argues that any complaint regarding failure to maintain minutes is untimely. In support of 
this position, the Board stated that many other minutes from the same time period were posted online. Because the 
minutes at issue here were not posted to the website, the Board suggests that the complainant was on notice th;jt the 
Board had not maintained them. This argument is unavailing. The Open Meeting Law does not require that public 
bodies post their meeting minutes to a website. See OML 2013-117. Therefore, the Board's failure to post 
particular minutes to a website would not put members of the public on notice as to a potential violation. See G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 