===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATIORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 26, 2012 
OML 2012 - 23 
Kevin Paicos 
Town Manager 
Town of Foxborough 
40 South Street 
Foxborough, MA 02035 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Paicos: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Richard C. Heydecker on May 16, 
2011, alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. 
Heydecker filed two complaints with the Town of Foxborough: one with the Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") on April 25, 2011; and another with the Capital Improvement 
Planning Committee (the "Committee") on April 28, 2011. The first complaint alleges 
that the Board "cancelled," without discussion, an item listed on the March 29, 2011 
Selectmen's Meeting Agenda. The first complaint also alleges that the Board "deleted" 
from the April 12, 2011 Selectmen's Meeting Agenda "the long standing 'Citizens Input' 
category and in fact moved directly into agenda items listed." The second complaint 
alleges that the Committee's April 26, 2011 meeting was "a one-item meeting without a 
'citizen input' agenda item. There was also no defined adjournment time listed." Your 
May 9, 2011 response to both complaints was received by this office on May 10, 2011. 
We reviewed the complaints filed on April 25, 2011 and April 28, 2011; your 
May 9, 2011 response; and the complaint filed with this office on May 16, 2011. We also 
reviewed the Selectmen's meeting agendas from March 29, 2011 and April 12, 2011; the 
Committee's meeting agenda from April 26, 2011; and an e-mail from the complainant to 
this office, dated June 8, 2011. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that neither the Board nor the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
Board of Selectmen 
The Selectmen's Meeting Agenda for the Board's March 29, 2011 meeting began 
with "Citizen's Input" at 7:00 p.m. The agenda also listed two items for discussion at 
7:50 p.m. The first stated the Board of Selectmen and the School Committee would 
discuss the subject of "FY2012 CIP/Operating Budget." The second stated that Richard 
Heydecker would raise a "Discussion on Board Issues: 1 — Meals Tax; 2 — 
'Grandfathering' the 70/30 Medical; 3 — Base wages versus overtime numbers; 4 — 
School Dept. Grant / $100,000 for Town Hall; 5 — Overtime Issues — Substitutes, Reserve 
Officers." According to the complaint, while "[a]s much time was expended on [the first 
item], [the second item] was basically cancelled and BoS adjourned." Furthermore, Mr. 
Heydecker's June 8, 2011 e-mail to this office states that the meeting "adjourned without 
a follow-up session to discuss the listed items. The Manager has stated at a meeting that 
there is just so much time available and he will determine in discussion with the Chair 
what shall be included on the agenda." 
The Selectmen's Meeting Agenda for the next Board meeting on April 12, 2011 
did not include an item for "Citizen's Input." Mr. Heydecker's complaint alleges that the 
Board "deleted the long standing 'Citizen's Input' category and in fact moved directly 
into agenda items listed. Given the 'not on the agenda' censure pattern of Town Hall and 
expressed by some BoS members, only one citizen showed up" at this meeting. 
Capital Improvement Planning Committee 
The Committee met on April 26, 2011. The Committee's agenda for the meeting 
listed one item, "Town Hall Building Project" at 6:30 p.m. According to Mr. 
Heydecker's original complaint, "it was a one-item meeting without a 'citizen input' 
agenda item. There was also no adjournment time listed." Mr. Heydecker's June 8, 2011 
e-mail further states that the Committee "did their presentation, discussion, and vote 
without permitting public dialogue. Time ran out and they left the room as I objected to 
the adjournment without the public discussion." 
In response to both of complaints, the response states only that "the Town does 
not believe any violation of the Open Meeting Law occurred. For that reason, we are 
notifying [the Attorney General] that no remedial action has taken place or is 
contemplated." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
Mr. Heydecker's complaints raise three issues. The first is whether the Open 
Meeting Law requires a public body to discuss particular items or topics listed on a 
meeting notice or agenda. The second is whether the Open Meeting Law requires a 
public body to allow members of the public to participate at meetings. The third is 
whether the Open Meeting Law requires meeting notices to include an adjournment time. 
The complainant first alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
because it did not recognize him during its meeting on March 29, 2011, even though he 
was scheduled to speak. Furthermore, the Board did not place him on any subsequent 
meeting agenda. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to hold any 
meetings on any particular topics. A public body may schedule meetings and set agendas 
at its discretion and in accordance with laws governing the public body. The Open 
Meeting Law simply requires a public body to post timely notice of those topics it 
reasonably expects to discuss. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The law does not prohibit a 
public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a 
meeting notice or agenda. Thus, the Board was not required to discuss the items listed on 
the March 29, 2011 agenda or to reschedule the complainant's appointment to speak. 
The complainant also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
because it failed to list "Citizen's Input" on the April 12, 2011 agenda and did not take 
public comments when the meeting opened. The Open Meeting Law does not require 
that a public body allow public participation. The law states that "[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, 
at the request of the chair, be silent." Id. at § 20(f). The Board therefore did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by omitting "Citizen's Input" from its April 12, 2011 meeting 
agenda and moving directly into topics listed when the meeting began. The Committee 
also did not violate the law when it denied the complainant's request for more time to 
speak at its April 26, 2011 meeting. The Open Meeting Law permits the chair of the 
Committee to decide who can speak at a meeting and for how long. See id. This was, 
therefore, a proper exercise of the Committee's discretion under the law. Although 
public participation is entirely within the chair's discretion, we do encourage public 
bodies to allow for as much public participation as time permits. 
Lastly, the complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law because the agenda failed to list an adjournment time. The Open Meeting Law only 
requires a meeting notice to contain the following: "date, time and place of such meeting 
and a listing of topics that the Chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." Id. at § 20(b). The law does not require a public body to list an adjournment 
time on a meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that neither the Board nor the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss an agenda item 
3 
===PAGE 4===
nor does it require an opportunity for public participation at meetings. Finally, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require a meeting notice to include an adjournment time. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any 
other complaints that may be pending with our office, the Board, or the Committee. If 
you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the 
number below. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Richard C. Heydecker 
4 