===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 6, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 106  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel, City of Fall River 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on September 17, 2021,1 alleging that 
the Durfee High School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
August 4. The Committee responded by letter dated May 12, 2022.2 The complaint alleges that 
1) the notice for the Committee’s July 8 meeting lacked sufficient detail with respect to the 
location of the meeting; and 2) the Committee’s use of GoToMeeting to stream its meetings does 
not comply with the requirement to provide adequate, alternative means of access without 
subscription, toll, or similar charge.3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a meeting notice that failed to specify the location of the Committee’s July 8 meeting. 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the use of 
GoToMeeting to provide adequate, alternative means of access to its meetings. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Committee failed to respond to the complaint in a timely manner, requiring our office to make several requests 
for a response. We remind the Committee of its obligation to comply with all requirements o f the Open Meeting 
Law, including the requirement to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days of 
the complaint being filed with the Committee. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 The complaint also alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law “via Governor Baker[’]s March 
16th executive order by failing to RECORD the meeting. . . .” (emphasis in original). The Open Meeting Law does 
not require public bodies to video or audio record their meetings; therefore, we decline to review this allegation. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML 2020-31, n. 2. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the notice for the Committee’s July 8 meeting. We also communicated with Counsel for the 
Committee on several occasions.4 
 
FACTS 
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 8. The notice identified the 
meeting location as “Goto meeting and Suffolk Field Office.” Below this, the notice included a 
web link to access the meeting online via the GoToMeeting service as well as a dial-in number 
and access code to access the meeting via telephone. The meeting notice did not include any 
information about where the “Suffolk Field Office” was located.  
 
On July 8 the Committee held a hybrid meeting, which was open to the public both in 
person and remotely via GoToMeeting.5 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Generally, access to a meeting must include 
the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.6 On June 16, 2021, Governor 
Baker signed into law An Act Relative To Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted 
During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 (“Chapter 20”). Section 20 of 
Chapter 20 extended, until April 1, 2022, the remote meeting provisions established in Governor 
Baker’s March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, § 20 (“Executive Order”).7 Relevant here, the Executive Order, and subsequent legislation, 
suspended the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public, provided that the public body provide “adequate, alternative means” of public access. 
Both the Executive Order and subsequent legislation require that a public body offer its selected 
adequate, alternative means of access “without subscription, toll or similar charge to the public.” 
Executive Order at § 1; Chapter 20, § 20(b).  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. A 
public body should provide the street address of a meeting location where possible. See OML 
2019-44; OML 2016-94; OML 2016-38. Additionally, if access to a meeting will also be 
provided via adequate, alternative means of remote access, then clear instructions for how the 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 The complaint alleges that the July 8 meeting was a hybrid meeting held both remotely and in person. The 
Committee does not dispute this, instead simply noting that “a physical location for the meeting was not required.” 
Additionally, the Committee did not respond to a question from our office regarding whether the July 8 meeting was 
a hybrid meeting. Therefore, based on the information available to us, we find that the July 8 meet was a hybrid 
meeting.  
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
7 These provisions were again extended until July 15, 2022. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
public may access the meeting must be included on the notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 
2020-102. 
 
I. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Posting an Insufficient Notice for 
Its July 8 Meeting. 
 
Although the Committee was not required to provide both in-person and remote access to 
its July 8 meeting, because the meeting notice did identify an in-person option, the notice needed 
to provide enough detail to reasonably inform the public of the physical location of the meeting. 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s July 8 meeting did not sufficiently 
notify the public of the physical location of the meeting, instead identifying the location of the 
meeting as “Suffolk Field Office.” We agree that this was insufficient to inform the public of the 
physical location of the meeting. Therefore, we find the notice was insufficiently specific, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a 
similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law. However, because the complaint does not allege that any member of the public was misled 
or confused by the meeting notice, or that the meeting was inaccessible to the public, we order 
no further remedial action. See OML 2016-77. 
 
II. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Providing Remote Access 
to Its Meetings Via GoToMeeting. 
 
The Complainant alleges that the Committee’s use of the GoToMeeting service violates 
the requirement to provide adequate, alternative means of public access without subscription, 
toll, or other similar charge because “the app requires [the Complainant] to subscribe and make 
an account, and to download an app for mobile streaming of the meeting.” The Complainant 
does not allege that he was required to pay a fee, toll, or other similar charge in order to access 
the Committee’s meeting via the GoToMeeting application. 
 
The Committee explains that the GoToMeeting application does not require an individual 
to create an account in order to access a meeting. The Committee’s explanation comports with 
information provided online by GoToMeeting, which explains that “[i]f you are joining a session 
that was scheduled by someone else, then you are an attendee and do not need your own 
GoToMeeting account.”8 Furthermore, we construe the requirement to provide alternative means 
of access “without subscription, toll or similar charge to the public” as mandating that remote 
access be made available to the public free of charge. See OML 2020-111. We find that the 
Committee’s use of GoToMeeting complies with this requirement as there is no direct charge for 
participants to join a GoToMeeting meeting via the internet. Had the sole means of access to the 
Committee’s meeting been a long-distance number that would have caused members of the 
public to incur a toll, this would not comply with the requirement to provide alternative means of 
access “without subscription, toll, or similar charge,” but that was not the case here. See OML 
2021-135. 
 
 
8 GoToMeeting Support Page, https://support.goto.com/meeting. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting a meeting notice that failed to clearly identify the location of its July 8 meeting. We 
find the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Durfee High School Building Committee c/o Kenneth Pacheco, Chief Operating Officer, 
Fall River Public Schools (via email:  
Renee M. Howayeck, Esq., City of Fall River Law Department (via email: 
 
Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
