===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 1 1, 2016 
OML 2016-107 
Joseph Macy 
Fall River Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins dated March 21, alleging that the 
Fall River Community Preservation Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about March 7, and you responded by letter dated March 16. The complaint alleges that topics 
on the Committee's February 22 notice lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, your response, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the Committee meeting held on February 22.2 
We find the facts to be as follows. During its February 22 meeting, the Committee held 
hearings on funding for nine separate projects in the City. The meeting notice, posted on January 
19, listed these topics below the heading "Hearings on Funding" as follows: 
a. Olmstead Drinking Fountains 
b. Digitazation (sic) of Documents 
c. Narrows Gate House 
d. Public Library 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 After numerous attempts to obtain a copy of the minutes from this meeting, the Committee finally responded on 
July 13. We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that, "[u]pon notification of an 
investigation, any person, public body or any other... official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall 
make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c. 30A, § 
24(a); see also 940 CMR 29.06(2) ("Upon notice of the investigation, the subject of the investigation shall provide 
the Attorney General with all information relevant to the investigation.") 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
e. Frank Silva School 
f. Cogswell Fountain 
g. Grants Program 
h. Central Congregational Church 
i. Pulaski Park Water Pad 
During the meeting, the Committee discussed each topic in turn. All of the topics, except 
"Olmsted Drinking Fountains," "Digitazation (sic) of Documents," and "Grants Program" 
concerned specific properties located in the City for which there was only one address. The 
Committee discussed all three Olmstead Fountains located in the City. Under the topic, 
"Digitazation (sic) of Documents," the Committee discussed an application to restore and 
digitize "Sanborn maps." Under the topic, "Grants Program," the Committee discussed a 
proposal that would allow the Fall River Historical Commission to provide grants to 
homeowners. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to 
list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2016-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the notice should have specifically identified the address for 
each location listed. The Committee responded that (1) the Committee planned to discuss all 
Olmstead drinking fountains, thus it did not need to list the location for each and every fountain; 
(2) there is only one Narrows Gate Flouse, one public library, one Frank Silva School, one 
Cogswell Fountain, one Central Congregational Church and one Pulaski Park Water Pad in the 
City, thus the public had ample notice and description of the topics to be discussed; and (3) the 
other two topics, "Digitization of Documents" and "Grants Program" do not have physical 
locations. We agree with the Committee's arguments. Although including a specific address of 
a location may oftentimes be useful to the public, where a building is a well-known landmark in 
the community, listing the address in place of the name may actually cause more confusion than 
clarity.4 This is different from the requirement that a notice include the street address of the 
meeting location. See OML 2016-38. Accordingly, the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by omitting this information from the notice. However, we encourage the 
Committee to include addresses in its meeting notices, in addition to the names of locations it 
intends to discuss. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 We note, however, that if the Committee had planned to discuss only one of the three Olmstead fountains, it would 
have been necessary to identify the specific fountain it planned to discuss. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Finally, we note that while topics "Digitization of Documents" and "Grants Program" did 
not require the Committee to list physical locations in its meeting notice, the Committee should 
have included more information about the specific documents to be digitized and the specific 
Grants Program to be discussed at the meeting. See OML 2016-4, Because this issue was not 
raised in the complaint, we decline to find a violation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We remind the Committee to provide sufficient detail for each anticipated 
discussion topic listed in its meeting notices. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Committee, Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Fall River Community Preservation Committee 
Patrick Fliggins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 