===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 12, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 57 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Sahara J. Defensor, Esq. 
Counsel, Massachusetts Rehabilitation Commission  
Sahara.Defensor@mass.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Defensor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine Tosti on August 31, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the State Rehabilitation Council (the “Council”)2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about June 10, and, after two 
extensions of time granted by this office, the chair of the Council, Inez Canada, responded by 
letter on August 4. We understand the complaint to allege that the Council has improperly 
withheld executive session meeting minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly withholding executive session meeting minutes. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s response, the request for further 
review, the Complainant’s original request for meeting minutes and the response to that request, 
and minutes for an executive session held on November 4, 2021. We also communicated with 
the attorney for the Council by email.
3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council’s Executive Committee held a meeting on 
November 4, 2021. After the open session portion of the meeting, members of the Council’s 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Workgroup (the “Workgroup”) met in executive session. 
Because the November 4, 2021, executive session minutes have not yet been released to the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Complainant is a member of the Council.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public, we only summarize their content here. During the executive session, the Workgroup 
discussed, with representatives from Health Management Associates (“HMA”), a strategic plan 
for diversity, equity, and inclusion.   
 
On Saturday, May 7, the Complainant made a request for, among other things, meeting 
minutes. The Complainant made the request to the chair of the Council, Inez Canada, via email. 
Relevant here, the Complainant requested minutes for “1) [a]ll executive sessions with HMA and 
the DEI working group including any reports and documents. . . .”
 4 Chair Canada responded to 
the Complainant via email on May 9 stating that with respect to the above request, “these items 
require a Public Records request to MRC. I do not have the authority to alter the process for 
requesting Public Records. Please contact the Public Records Access Officer.” Chair Canada’s 
email included a link to contact the Records Access Officer.   
 
On June 10, the Complainant filed the complaint at issue here alleging that the Council 
had improperly withheld executive session minutes.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are 
narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); OML 2019-
164; OML 2014-42.5  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes of any executive session 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety “as long as publication may defeat 
the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive 
session was held in compliance with section 21.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (emphasis added).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 Requests for records other than meeting minutes, even documents used at a meeting, fall under the Public Records 
Law. Concerns about compliance with the Public Records Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records in 
the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The November 4, 2021, Executive Session 
 
The complaint alleges that the Council improperly withheld executive session minutes 
related to meetings with HMA. In response to the complaint, the Council explains that it  
 
believes these minutes should remain confidential because publication would 
defeat the purpose of the Executive Session. [Council] members shared personal 
experiences and eye -witness accounts of racial injustices with fellow members 
through confidential conversations under the guidance of trained DEI Consultants. 
If the [Council] violates privacy and confidentiality that led to the trusting, open 
sharing through these conversations, it would be a serious breach of trust among 
members that may not be restored.  
 
Additionally, in response to a request from our office for a copy of the executive session 
minutes the Complainant requested, the Council, through its attorney, provided one set of 
minutes for an executive session held on November 4, 2021, and explained that other “Executive 
Committee meeting minutes . . . related to HMA and the DEI working group have . . . since been 
made public and posted to the [Council’s] meeting minutes repository that is accessible to the 
public.” The Council further explained that the minutes for the November 4, 2021, executive 
session continue to be withheld from the public because they “continue to contain confidential 
and privileged information.” 
 
Central to the issue of whether the Council may withhold the November 4, 2021, 
executive session minutes is whether the November 4 executive session was properly held. We 
find that it was not. The public body bears the burden of demonstrating applicability of the 
relevant executive session purpose. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm, of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009); OML 2018-49. As reflected in the minutes of the 
November 4, 2021, meeting, the Workgroup did not cite to any of the ten executive session 
purposes before convening in executive session, nor has the Council asserted in its response to 
the complaint that the discussions held on November 4, 2021, fell within any of the ten executive 
session purposes. Instead, the Council asserts that the discussions were held in executive session 
because they were of a sensitive nature and the Council wanted to facilitate open discussions 
among its members. The Council further asserts that the minutes of the November 4, 2021, 
executive session contain privileged and confidential information, but does not provide any basis 
for this assertion. Although we acknowledge the importance and sensitivity of the work the 
Workgroup was engaged in, that a discussion might be of a sensitive nature does not constitute 
permissible grounds for meeting in executive session. See OML 2016-81. After review of the 
minutes of the November 4 executive session, we find that the discussions did not fit within any 
of the ten permissible reasons for convening in executive session. Accordingly, we find that the 
November 4, 2021, executive session was improper.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Because the November 4, 2021, executive session was not properly held under the Open 
Meeting Law, we order the Council to release the minutes of that executive session to the public, 
and specifically to the Complainant. The minutes may not be redacted in any way. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety . . . as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with 
section 21. When the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the 
minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records 
Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” (emphasis 
added)); OML 2019-12; OML 2014-42. We understand that minutes for all other executive 
sessions related to HMA and the Workgroup have been released and posted online. However, if 
there are any other such executive session minutes that have not yet been released, we order the 
Council to release those minutes as well. 
 
Responding to Requests for Meeting Minutes 
 
Finally, we take this opportunity to clarify for the Council the requirements when 
responding to a request for meeting minutes made under the Open Meeting Law. A request for 
meeting minutes that is directed to a public body will fall under the Open Meeting Law and 
requires a response within 10 calendar days.
6 See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c)&(g); OML 2019-163. 
With respect to a request for executive session minutes, if the public body or a designee has 
determined, prior to the request, that continued nondisclosure is no longer warranted with respect 
to the requested minutes, then the public body should respond to the requestor within 10 days 
and provide the requested minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g). If, on the other hand, at the time of the 
request the public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted, then the body must perform such a review and release the 
minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body must still respond to the requestor 
within 10 days, notifying them that it is conducting this review. See OML 2013-99. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
withholding the minutes of an executive session held on November 4, 2021. We order the 
Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we 
order the Council to release to the public and to the Complainant the minutes of the November 4, 
2021, executive session. The Council may not redact any portion of the minutes.  
 
 
 
 
 
6 Requests for minutes directed to a clerk or other employee as Records Access Officer will likely fall under the 
Public Records Law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Inez Canada, Chair Statewide Rehabilitation Council, Massachusetts Rehabilitation 
Commission (via email: MRC.StateRehabCouncil@MassMail.State.MA.Us) 
Christine Tosti (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
