===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       February 14, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 21  
 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
 
By email only: alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 21, 2024, alleging 
that the Stoughton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 15, 2024, and you responded 
to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 9, 2024, following an extension 
of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the Board entered executive session for 
an improper purpose on July 3, 2024.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting 
held on July 3, 2024, as well as a video recording of the open session portion of that meeting.
1  
In addition, we spoke with you via telephone on January 16 and January 28, 2025. 
 
FACTS 
 
On July 1, 2024, at 1:38 P.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 3, 
202, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed 11 topics, one of which was an Executive Session.  
 
1 A video recording of the July 3, 2024, Board meeting is available at 
http://71.184.118.35/CablecastPublicSite/show/9756?site=2. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Specifically, the notice listed an executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 “to conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel and contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel” for both the Town Manager and Town Clerk; an executive session to 
“Request for Appropriation Transfer between or Within Departments: From Dispatch Salary to 
Buyout per personnel agreement”; and an executive session to approve executive session minutes 
of a meeting held on June 4, 2024.  
 
The July 3, 2024, meeting was held as planned and the Board convened in open session.  
Board Chair Stephen Cavey announced that the Board would first convene in executive session 
to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel and contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel pursuant to Purpose 2 for the Town Clerk; to “Request for 
Appropriation Transfer between or Within Departments: From Dispatch Salary to Buyout per 
personnel agreement”; and to approve executive session minutes of the June 4, 2024, meeting.  
Board member Joseph Mokrisky then moved to enter executive session and Board member 
Debra Roberts seconded the motion.  The Board obtained a majority vote by roll call to convene 
in executive session and announced that it would resume in open session after the conclusion of 
the executive session.   
 
The Board has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session; therefore, we 
do not recount their content in detail here.  However, based on our in camera review of the 
minutes and conversations with legal counsel, we note that the Board discussed terms for a 
settlement agreement with the Town Clerk, which necessitated transferring money from one 
department to another.  The Board returned to open session after the conclusion of the executive 
session and discussed the open session topics.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
2 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  Purpose 2 is limited to protecting a public body’s negotiating position when negotiating or 
discussing negotiations with specific nonunion personnel or with specific collective bargaining 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
units.  See OML 2018-39.  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address 
subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering 
executive session.  See District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket 
reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which 
executive session was called). 
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s J uly 3, 2024, executive session 
discussions.  Here, the Board convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 and discussed 
terms to be included in a settlement agreement with the Town Clerk.  As part of the settlement 
agreement, the Board then discussed the transfer of a specific appropriation from one department 
to another.  Although we have previously determined that discussions focused on general 
budgetary matters are not appropriate for executive session, we find here that the discussions 
relating to the appropriation transfer were directly correlated to the Board’s negotiation of a 
settlement agreement and not simply related to general budgetary matters.  Compare OML 2017-
69 (finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive 
session strategy with respect to negotiating a separation agreement with Superintendent), with 
OML 2015-63 (discussion of a wide-ranging strategy that would reach beyond any one employee 
or unit should be done in open session) and 2023-63 (noting that discussions relating to proposed 
bonuses for staff would not be appropriate for executive session).  As such, we find that these 
discussions fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as the discussions related to 
strategy in preparation for contract negotiations.   
   
We take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law allows a public 
body to conduc
t contract negotiations with nonunion personnel in executive session but does not 
authorize a public body to approve a contract in executive session.  See OML 2013-91; OML 
2011-56; OML 2011-44.  Therefore, although a public body may reach an agreement on the 
terms of a contract in executive session, it must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an 
agreement in open session.  See OML 2011-28 (finding that school committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by voting to approve superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).   
 
Finally, although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not 
s
pecify a statutory purpose for its executive session discussions with respect to the appropriation 
transfer.  Here, the notice stated that the Board would convene in executive session to discuss a 
“Request for Appropriation Transfer between or Within Departments: From Dispatch Salary to 
Buyout per personnel agreement.”  Although the notice explained the anticipated discussion, the 
language alone did not provide any indication or description of the specific executive session 
purpose.  We remind the Board that when convening in executive session, a public body must 
identify and describe in the notice, as well as in an announcement during open session, which of 
the ten statutory executive session purposes it intends to invoke to justify the executive session 
and provide as much detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session 
discussion without compromising the confidentiality of the executive session.  See OML 2016-
21; see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... 
because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper”).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Stoughton Select Board c/o Secretary Gilda Pereira – By email only: 
gpereira@stoughton-ma.gov 
Stoughton Assistant Town Clerk Susie Gross – By email only: sgross@stoughton-ma.gov 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
