===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 7,2014 
OML 2014-34 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received complaints from Joseph Kaminski, dated November 5, 2013, and 
Kimberly Wetherell, dated December 9, 2013, respectively, alleging that the Peru Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, GL. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Both 
complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about September 16, 2013, and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated October 8, 
2013.1 In their complaints, Mr. Kaminski and Ms. Wetherell allege that the minutes from the 
Board's August 26, 2013 meeting are inaccurate, in part, because they include information 
about a conversation that occurred while less than a quorum was present at the meeting 
location.2 In addition, Mr. Kaminski alleges that during its August 26, 2013 meeting the 
Board discussed a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice, and that the Board 
scheduled its meeting at the same time as other Town boards. Finally, he alleges that the 
Board began its September 9, 2013 meeting earlier than scheduled. 
We reviewed the September 16, 2013 complaints; your October 8, 2013 responses to 
the complaints, on behalf of the Board; and the November 5, 2013 and December 9, 2013 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We reviewed the notices and 
minutes from the Board's meetings held on August 19, 2013; August 26, 2013; and 
1 This response was sent two business days after the fourteen-day deadline. We remind the Board that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that within fourteen business days after receiving a complaint the public body shall review 
the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2 Mr. Kaminski also alleges that the Board's minutes from the August 19, 2013 meeting were inaccurate because 
they listed as present an individual who was not a Board member and they attributed a statement to Mr. 
Kaminski that he did not make during the meeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
September 9, 2013, as well as the recordings from the Board's meetings held on August 19, 
2013 and August 26, 2013.3 Finally, we spoke by telephone with Chair Douglas Haskins. 
Following our review, we find that the meeting minutes at issue are sufficiently 
accurate, and that the Board's discussion of the allegedly improper topic during its meeting 
was permissible; however we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening its September 9, 2013 meeting prior to the scheduled time. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. At 6:00 P.M. on August 19, 2013, the Board 
convened a meeting in open session. The meeting notice, posted on August 15, 2013, listed 
the following discussion topics: "6:00 P.M. 1. Call to Order; 2. Roll Call; 3. Approval of 
Minutes to previous meeting. Review and approve weekly warrant; 4. Reports from all 
departments; An opportunity for members of the public to address the Select Board; 6. 
Adjourn." After the Board discussed minutes from a prior meeting (without identifying the 
date of the meeting, either during the meeting or in the meeting minutes), the resignation of a 
Board member, and a report from Highway Superintendent Dale Weeks, the Board opened the 
floor to public comment. During a discussion about whether certain matters are handled 
outside of meetings, the Board said that public bodies that need to report to the Board have 
different schedules. Mr. Kaminski asked the Board why other public body meetings were not 
scheduled at 5 P.M. so that "everyone gets out earlier." The meeting minutes state, "Joseph 
Kaminski asked if hours of meetings could be changed to accommodate the different 
departments so they could meet at the same time." 
At 6:00 P.M. on August 26, 2013, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The 
meeting notice, posted by the Clerk on August 22, 2013, listed the following discussion 
topics: "6:00 P.M. 1. Call to Order; 2. Roll Call; 3. Approval of Minutes to previous 
meeting. Review and approve weekly warrant; 4. Reports from all departments; 7:00 P.M. 
An opportunity for members of the public to address the Select Board." About halfway 
through the meeting, Mr. Kaminski asked the Board about an Open Meeting Law complaint 
that he had filed on August 12, 2013, which led to an impromptu discussion between 
members of the public and the Board about starting meetings earlier than the time posted on 
the notice. 
Later during the same meeting, a member of the public raised an issue about the size 
of the meeting room to which the Board responded that they would "sec what they could do." 
At one point during this brief discussion. Chair Flaskins mentioned that an Open Meeting Law 
complaint had recently been filed about the issue, but did not go into any detail about the 
complaint. Chair Haskins did not anticipate discussing any Open Meeting Law complaints 
during this meeting, but permitted discussion when the issue was raised. While Mr. 
Kaminski's inquiry about his Open Meeting Law complaint was described in the meeting 
minutes, the subsequent brief mention of another complaint (presumably Ms. Wetherell's) 
3 We note that the Board took over two months to respond to our office's request for documents and information, 
sent pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
was not included. Towards the end of this meeting, Chair Raskins left the meeting room, 
leaving one remaining Board member, Verne Leach, and several members of the public in the 
room. A discussion ensued amongst those who remained, portions of which were included in 
the meeting minutes. Chair Raskins returned to the meeting room about ten minutes later to 
continue the meeting. 
The minutes of the Board's September 9, 2013 meeting state that the meeting 
convened at 6:25 P.M. The meeting notice, posted by the Clerk on September 5, 2013, stated 
that the meeting would begin at 7:00 P.M; an apparent clerical error by the Clerk. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). 
The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during its August 26, 2013 meeting 
when Chair Raskins briefly left the meeting room, leaving Mr. Leach, the one remaining 
Board member (and less than a quorum of the Board), in the meeting room for a few minutes. 
A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" 
in relevant part as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction." Id. Because this is a three-member Board, two members constitute a 
quorum. Accordingly, the fact that one Board member continued a discussion with members 
of the public in Chair Raskin's absence, which was reflected in the meeting minutes, is not a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.4 
Second, we find that the minutes from the Board's August 19, 2013 and August 26, 
2013 meetings were substantially accurate and detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires a 
public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of 
the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a). While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-29. When reviewing minutes for compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See id. For substantial compliance, the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
4 The August 26, 2013 meeting minutes reflect a statement made by Mr. Kaminski about a wind turbine petition 
during this pause in the meeting. While we agree that the minutes attribute to him a statement made by another 
member of the public, we do not find this to be a violation because the statement was not made during the actual 
meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. Id. Although the passing mention of an Open Meeting 
Law complaint was not included in the August 26, 2013 meeting minutes, both sets of 
minutes included an accurate description of each substantive topic of discussion.^ 
Additionally, Mr. Kaminski's statement about other departments' meeting times, while not 
transcribed verbatim, was sufficiently reflected in the minutes.6 Finally, there is a 
disagreement between the parties about whether a particular individual who was listed as 
present in the minutes was actually at the meeting. Even if this person, who is not a member 
of the Board and apparently did not participate during the meeting, was not at the meeting we 
find this inaccuracy in the minutes was, at worst, a de minimis violation of the law.7 
Third, because Chair Haskins did not anticipate discussing Mr. Kaminski's August 12, 
2013 Open Meeting Law complaint during the Board's August 26, 2013 meeting, the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include it as a topic on its meeting notice. 
Public bodies are only required to list those topics that the chair reasonably anticipates, 48 
hours before the meeting, will be discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). While the Board was 
required to respond to Mr. Kaminski's Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, 
or by August 30, 2013, we credit Chair Haskin's assertion that he did not anticipate discussing 
the complaint during this particular meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We therefore find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
As a final matter, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by convening 
its September 9, 2013 meeting thirty-five minutes before the scheduled meeting time. See 
OML 2013 - 161. The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).8 Even though it was an inadvertent error by the Clerk, the Board should not have 
convened its meeting earlier than the posted meeting time of 7 P.M. 
5 Contrary to Mr. Kaminski's assertion in his complaint, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for an 
individual to draft meeting minutes from a recording of the meeting, even though she was not present for the 
meeting. 
6 We note that it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law to schedule a meeting at a time that may conflict 
with meetings of other public bodies. However, we encourage the Board, when scheduling its meeting, to be 
mindful that members of the public and public officials may want to attend meetings of several public bodies. 
7 In any event, Chair Haskins recalls that Peru Zoning Board member Jay Jewell was present for a portion of the 
meeting. 
8 In addition, we remind the Board that to the extent that the Chair anticipates at least 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting that specific department reports will be discussed, the notice should include that level of detail under the 
boilerplate topic, "Reports from all departments." See OML 2013-14. We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by convening its September 9, 2013 meeting prior to the scheduled time. We order immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Joseph Kaminski 
Kimberly Wetherell 
Peru Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
5 