===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
April 24, 2012 
OML 2012 — 32 
Christopher Clark 
Town Manager 
Town of Southbridge 
Southbridge, MA 01550-2638 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
This office received two complaints from Aim Fenwick-Beinema ("the complainant") on 
or about September 7, 2011, alleging that you, in your role as Southbridge Town Manager, and 
the Southbridge Town Council's Education and Human Services Subcommittee (the 
"Subcommittee") respectively violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Southbridge Town Council (the "Council") on or about 
August 8, 2011, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated August 18, 2011. 
Although the Town Manager is required to attend all meetings of the Council and its 
subcommittees, we understand that you are not a member of either body. Individuals who are 
not members of public bodies are not required to comply with the Open Meeting Law, therefore 
we decline to review the complaint against you as Town Manager, and only consider your 
actions to the extent they relate to the allegations against the Subcommittee.1  In her complaint 
against the Subcommittee, the complainant alleges that: 1) the notice for the Subcommittee's 
August 2, 2011 meeting did not state there would be a discussion about the complainant, even 
though the Chair reasonably anticipated one would occur; and 2) the Subcommittee did not give 
the complainant notice that her "reputation, conduct and character" would be discussed during an 
open session meeting on August 2, 2011.2  
We reviewed the August 8, 2011 complaint against the Subcommittee; the Council's 
August 18, 2011 response; the September 7, 2011 complaint filed with our office; a September 
1 For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 2 The complainant's September 7, 2011 letter also raises concerns about the accuracy of the minutes from the 
Subcommittee's meeting on August 8, 2011. Because these allegations were not raised in the initial complaint filed 
with the public body, we decline to review them. Potential violations discovered after a complaint has been filed 
with a public body should be alleged in a subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the public body an 
opportunity to investigate and take appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
27, 2011 letter to our office from the Town Manager; the meeting notice for the August 2, 2011 
meeting; the open session minutes and video recording from the August 2, 2011 meeting; the 
open session minutes from the Council's August 16, 2011 meeting; the meeting notice for and 
open session minutes from the Council's October 19, 2011 meeting; and we spoke with the 
Town Manager by telephone on November 8 and 16, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in the notice for its August 2, 2011 meeting and in the minutes 
of that same meeting. The Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not giving 
the complainant notice that she would be discussed as part of a particular agenda item. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
Notice was posted on July 28, 2011 for an August 2, 2011 meeting of the Subcommittee. 
The Agenda, which was created by the Town Manager, listed four items for discussion. The last 
item read "4. Discuss Board of Health membership." 
In his September 27, 2011 letter and during our November 8, 2011 phone conversation, 
the Town Manager stated that, at the time the agenda was created, he anticipated discussing two 
separate topics under agenda item four. The first topic was the question of whether the 
Subcommittee should consist of three or five members. This was the subject that the Town 
Manager anticipated would constitute the bulk of the discussion. The second topic was 
discussion of a complaint against one of the Subcommittee's members (the complainant), 
alleging that she had not complied with the conditions of her appointment. At the time the 
agenda was created, the Town Manager knew the complaint related specifically to the 
complainant and anticipated discussing the complaint against her at the meeting. 
That the Town Manager anticipated discussing both topics is also evident from a July 28, 
2011 memorandum that was sent by him to the Subcommittee members. The memorandum 
proposed two candidates for appointment to the Board of Health (the "Board"), and noted at the 
end that "At this time, I wish to make the committee aware that there is a serious matter that has 
been brought to my attention regarding a Board of Health member and I will present the 
information to the committee at the meeting on Tuesday, August 2." Attached to the 
memorandum was information on one of the candidates for appointment, and 21 pages of 
information relating to a change in Board membership from a three to a five member body. 
According to the complainant, on August 1, 2011 she met with the Town Manager and 
the Police Chief, and during the meeting the Town Manager asked her to resign from the Board. 
She left the meeting and did not resign. 
The next day, during the posted Subcommittee meeting, the Chah-  asked the Town 
Manager to present item number four on the agenda. The Town Manager noted that elements of 
this discussion related to an ongoing investigation, so he couldn't discuss everything publicly. 
He then explained that a complaint was received alleging that the complainant had not complied 
with the conditions of her appointment to the Board, specifically the requirement that she comply 
with state public ethics laws. In response to the complaint, he stated, the police chief conducted 
2 
===PAGE 3===
an investigation and, in the investigator's opinion, the complainant did not comply with this 
condition of her appointment. He then turned the discussion over to the Subcommittee to decide 
what course of action should follow. 
Although the summary of the discussion of agenda item four in the minutes from the 
August 2, 2011 meeting is only four lines long, the video recording shows that discussion of this 
item lasted nearly half an hour. Immediately after the Town Manager's remarks, the video 
shows that Councilor McDonald stated he did not believe it was appropriate to raise the matter in 
this forum. The Chair stated she'd entertain a motion to rescind ratification of the appointment 
to the Board, and discussion followed about whether it was appropriate to entertain a motion 
without debating the matter first. Debate on procedure followed. The Chair and Councilor 
Regis also made statements about their recollections regarding the appointment of the 
complainant. Procedures for an Ethics Department decision were also discussed. Councilor 
McDonald made a statement that he thought this item should have been discussed in executive 
session, that the agenda was not clear, and that a violation of the Open Meeting Law had 
occurred. Discussion followed about whether the item had been properly noticed, and whether it 
should be discussed in executive session. None of these discussions are reflected in the meeting 
minutes. 
On August 16, 2011, the Council discussed the complainant's Open Meeting Law 
complaints during an open session meeting. Several of the Councilors acknowledged at this time 
that agenda item four was vague and could have been worded better. After discussing the 
complaints, the Council voted to state at its next meeting that the Council, "will try to be more 
descriptive and detailed in the content of agenda items" and that they would resolve to "direct the 
Town Manager to more clearly define agenda items he is bringing forward in the future." 
During our November 8, 2011 telephone conversation, the Town Manager also said he realizes 
he could have been more descriptive in his statement of agenda item four. 
On October 13, 2011, notice was posted for an October 19, 2011 meeting of the Town 
Council. Item seven on the agenda read, "7. Vote to enter into Executive Session pursuant to 
MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(1) to discuss complaints or charges brought against a public 
officer and to return to open session to report results or to vote.*" At the bottom of the page was 
a notation reading, "*The individual reserves the right to discuss this matter in open session." 
The open session minutes from this meeting show that attorney Gary Brackett, representing the 
complainant, did in fact request that the matter be discussed in open session. After discussion 
about whether the notice given to his client was sufficient, a motion was made to "acknowledge 
and confirm" that the complainant's appointment to the Board by the Town Council "was 
obtained by false pretense and therefore it was and is invalid." An extensive discussion 
regarding the allegations against the complainant and the appropriateness of the process followed 
by the Subcommittee and the Council followed. The motion ultimately passed, and the Town's 
attorney clarified for the Council that the effect was the complainant was no longer on the Board. 
DISCUSSION  
1) The Subcommittee failed to post proper notice for its August 2, 2011 meeting 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the meeting." G.L. c. 20, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. 
The Subcommittee's notice for its August 2, 2011 meeting was not sufficiently specific to 
advise the public of the issues it planned to discuss under agenda item four. The Town Manager, 
acting as the Chair's agent when he created the meeting agenda, acknowledged that he 
anticipated discussing two separate topics under agenda item four. The first topic was the 
question of whether the Subcommittee should consist of three or five members. The second 
topic was discussion of the allegations that the complainant had not complied with the conditions 
of her appointment. The topic "4. Discuss Board of Health membership" was not sufficiently 
detailed to inform the public that a complaint against a particular member of the Board would be 
part of the discussion. The notice should have stated "4. Discuss Board of Health membership: 
a) Possible change from a 3 to 5 member Board; b) Complaint against Board member Ann 
Fenwick-Beinema." The Town Manager and members of the Council have both acknowledged 
this deficiency in the meeting notice, and resolved to more clearly describe topics in the future. 
2) The Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not giving the  
complainant written notice of agenda item four 
The complainant alleges that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to give her written notice that it intended to discuss her "reputation and character" during 
the August 2, 2011 meeting. Under the Open Meeting Law, if a public body enters into 
executive session "No discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual," the body must notify the individual in writing at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session and afford the person certain rights. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
While a public body may choose to discuss an individual's reputation and character 
behind closed doors, there is no requirement that such a discussion occur in executive session, 
and the subject of the discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that they 
do so. If a public body chooses to hold such a discussion in open session, there is no 
requirement that the individual who is the subject of the discussion be given notice. Therefore, 
the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not giving the complainant notice 
that it intended to discuss this matter in open session. While there is no legal requirement that 
the subject of the discussion be given notice in such circumstances, in the interest of 
transparency, we encourage public bodies to do so whenever possible. 
3) The minutes from the Subcommittee' s August 2, 2011 meeting were not sufficiently 
detailed  
The complainant's October 3, 2011 letter to our office alleges that the Subcommittee's 
meeting minutes do not accurately reflect what occurred at the meeting. We decline to review 
this allegation because it was not included in the complaint filed with the Subcommittee. We 
4 
===PAGE 5===
note, however, for the Subcommittee's reference, that the Open Meeting Law requires that a 
"public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. C. 
30A, § 22(a). A transcript of the meeting is not required, but minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
While we issue no opinion on whether the Subcommittee's minutes were sufficiently 
accurate, we find they were not sufficiently detailed because they omit significant portions of the 
discussion on agenda item four. While the minutes accurately sunmiarize the Town Manager's 
remarks, they contain little detail about the extensive debate that followed regarding various 
members' recollections about the appointment of the complainant, debate about procedural 
matters, whether the matter was appropriate for open session discussion, whether the agenda 
item had been properly noticed, and whether the Open Meeting Law had been violated. Where, 
as here, significant debate on a matter occurs and important corollary issues are raised, a mere 
statement of the discussion topic followed by a record of votes taken is not sufficiently detailed 
to inform the public what occurred. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail in the notice for its August 2, 2011 meeting and in the 
minutes of that same meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law. Furthermore, we order the Subconmittee to review the minutes from the August 
2, 2011 meeting and amend them to include additional detail about the discussion that occurred. 
This review should occur within thirty (30) days of receipt if this determination. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts 
in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Gary Brackett, Esq. 
Ann Fenwick-Beinema 
5 