===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 17,2018 
OML 2018 - 53 
Susan C. Cohen, Esq. 
General Counsel 
Cambridge Housing Authority 
362 Green Street 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Cohen: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 6 alleging that the 
Cambridge Housing Authority (the "Authority") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on November 15, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Authority, by letter dated November 30. The complaint alleges that 
the notice for the Authority's November 8 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it did not 
contain i) the date and time of posting, ii) the meeting location address, and iii) the purpose for 
executive session. The complaint also alleges that other items on the notice do "not provide the 
required specifics." 
Following our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include the date and time that the notice was posted. We find no evidence, however, 
that the Authority violated the law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Authority's response to the complaint, the City Clerk's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notice of, and open session minutes, from the Authority's November 8 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on March 29, 2018.2 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In April 2011, the City of Cambridge notified this office 
that official notices for City public bodies would be posted electronically as follows: City of 
Cambridge: www.cambridgema.gov; Cambridge Public Schools: www.cpsd.us; Cambridge 
Housing Authority: www.cambridge-housing.org. In addition, notices are posted to a bulletin 
board located outside of the City Clerk's Office in City Hall. 
On November 3, the Authority posted notice with the City Clerk for a meeting to be held 
on Wednesday, November 8 at 5:30 P.M. The Authority's Attorney, Susan C. Cohen, provided 
this office with a copy of the notice that was posted and stamped by the City Clerk; the date and 
time of posting was November 3 at 11:00 A.M. The notice listed the location of the meeting as 
362 Green Street in Cambridge but did not list any topics. This notice was posted to the bulletin 
board in City Hall. 
The November 8 meeting notice was also posted on the Authority's website, 
www.cambridge-housing.org. The notice listed the date, time and place of the meeting as 
Wednesday, November 8 at 5:30 P.M. in the Authority Boardroom located on the 4th Floor of 
362 Green Street in Cambridge. There was a separate link on this webpage to the "meeting 
agenda." The agenda included eight topics, one of which was Executive Session. The specific 
topics listed under Executive Session were "Personnel" and "Other Business." 
The November 8 meeting was held as planned and the Authority discussed the noticed 
topics. The Authority did not enter executive session, however. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For local public bodies, 
notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. Id. at § 
20(c). A municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting location for all 
public bodies within the municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.3 The date and time that the notice is posted must be 
conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the November 8 notice was insufficiently detailed because it 
failed to contain the date and time of posting and the meeting location address. Since the 
Authority has adopted its website as the official method of posting notice, the notice posted there 
is considered the official legal notice for Open Meeting Law purposes. Here, the notice posted 
on the Authority's webpage listed the place of the meeting, including the specific room and street 
address. Even though the separately posted meeting agenda did not include the meeting location, 
we find that the Authority complied with the Open Meeting Law's requirements where the date, 
time and place of its November 8 meeting were posted on its website. See OML 2015-156. 
However, the notice posted to the website did not include the date and time that it was 
posted. Meeting notices must indicate the date and time that the notice was posted, either on the 
notice itself or in the document or website accompanying the notice. Recording the date and 
time enables the public to observe that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting 
Law's requirements. See OML 2013-44. Although the notice posted on the bulletin board did 
contain the date and time of posting, the bulletin board is not the official notice posting method 
designated by the City. Because the notice posted to the website - the official posting method -
did not include the date and time of posting, we find that the Authority violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
The complaint also alleges that the executive session topics listed on the notice are 
insufficiently detailed. Because the Authority did not convene in executive session on 
November 8, we find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of the executive session topics 
listed on the notice. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the 
public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would 
have been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 
2015-63; OML 2014-81. Although we do not find a violation, we note that had the Authority 
convened in executive session, the noticed topics might have been insufficiently detailed because 
there is no executive session purpose for "Personnel" or "Other Business." A public body may 
enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b); see also District Attorney for 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). At the 
very least, the Authority should state which of the ten purposes enumerated in G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a) it intends to cite as its reason for entering into executive session. See OML 2013-28; OML 
2011-54. We find that the seven remaining topics were sufficiently detailed. 
As a final matter, although not raised in the complaint, we note that notices posted to the 
City website, www.cambridgema.gov, were not easily located. Specifically, we observed that 
the "Notice" tab within the "Open Meetings Portal" did not contain any notices; rather, the 
"Meetings" tab contained the calendar for all meetings, and sometimes included a link to the 
public body's agenda. If a municipality adopts its municipal website as the official method of 
notice posting, that website should include a page where all public body meeting notices can be 
located in order that members of the public can easily access notices. See 940 C.M.R. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
29.03(2)(b). Where, as here, the Authority posts notices on its own website, the City website 
must, at the very least, include a link to the specific page on the Authority's website where it 
posts its meetings notices. While we could not find any Authority notices or even a link to 
Authority notices on the City website, the Authority has indicated to our office that it is working 
with the City Clerk to post notices to the City website. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include the date and time that the notice was posted. We find that the Authority did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the remaining allegations. We order the 
Authority's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 