===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 14.2015 
OML 2015 - 49 
Craig Kleman 
Town Administrator 
Town of Peru 
7 E. Main Road 
Peru, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Kleman: 
This office received four complaints from Kimberly Wetherell dated November 17,1 
alleging that the Peru Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about October 7, and 
you responded to the complaints by letter dated October 30. In her complaints, Ms. Wetherell 
alleges that the minutes from the Board's meetings held on September 8; September 12; 
September 15; and September 22 are insufficient. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to include accurate and sufficient detail in its meeting minutes and by failing to comply with the 
requirements for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the four October 7 complaints; your October 30 response;2 and the November 17 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review of all four complaints. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and recordings from the Board meetings held on September 8; 
September 12; September 15; and September 22. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board meetings at issue were held on September 
8; September 12; September 15; and September 22. The Board approved the minutes from these 
meetings during the next meeting or two following each of these meetings. These Open Meeting 
Law complaints soon followed, alleging that the approved minutes are insufficient. Below we 
highlight certain topics that the Board discussed during each meeting. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Mr. Kleman provided us with a recording from every meeting at issue except for the September 12 meeting. The 
complainant provided us with her copy of the recording from that meeting, but it was inaudible. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
During the September 8 meeting, the Veteran's Agent requested a laptop from the Board. 
The minutes state that the Veteran's Agent needed a key to the community center and will hold 
office hours, but do not mention his request for a laptop. Later during the meeting, several topics 
were discussed under the topic, "Review and approve warrants," including a discussion about 
whether the Tree Warden is covered by insurance, a letter from the Berkshire Regional Planning 
Commission, and an announcement about the schedule of interviews for the Town Administrator 
position. The minutes do not record any of these discussions. 
On September 12, the Board convened a meeting to conduct interviews for the position of 
the Town Administrator.4 The minutes state, "[a] discussion regarding interview questions and 
procedures between the Selectboard and Mr. Kellogg takes place." Then, the minutes state, "Paul 
Boudreau's interview begins at 3:46 p.m. and ends at 4:19 p.m." and "Craig Kleman's interview 
begins at 4:50 p.m. and ends at 5:20 p.m. A discussion between the Selectboard and Mr. Kellogg 
follows the interview." 
The Board's September 15 minutes state that the Board "approves training for Gladys 
Wheeler," but does not identify the nature of the training. A few minutes later, the Board 
responded to written questions submitted by various residents. The minutes do not offer any 
detail about the questions, only stating that the Board "answers one question from a resident" and 
"answers three questions from a resident." 
During the September 22 meeting, the Board discussed its hiring decision for the Town 
Administrator position. According to the minutes, without discussing the various candidates, the 
Board voted to hire Mr. Kleman and then "discusses with Craig Kleman and Joe Kellogg some 
agreement basics." The actual discussion included more detail about the terms of the agreement, 
such as Mr. Kleman's hours and salary. 
The Board received the four pending Open Meeting Law complaints on October 7. 
These complaints were not discussed during any Board meeting. Instead, Mr. Kleman, who is 
now serving as Town Administrator, unilaterally responded to the complaints in a letter, dated 
October 30, which he sent to the complainant. We obtained a copy of Mr. Kleman's response 
from the complainant. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
4 The meeting notice, posted on September 10 at 2:45 P.M., listed among the topics for discussion the following: "4. 
Interview Town Administrators." Because the Board knew the names of the candidates being interviewed at the 
time it posted the notice, and planned to interview them in open session, those candidates' names should have been 
listed in the meeting notice. See OML 2013-163. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2014-34. For substantial compliance, the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. Id 
I. The Board Failed to Create Accurate and Sufficient Minutes. 
We find that the summaries of the discussions surrounding the interviews for and hiring 
of the Town Administrator in the minutes of the Board's September 12 and September 22 
meetings are entirely insufficient. The discussion about the interview process as well as the 
interviews themselves should have been recorded in more detail in the minutes. Likewise, the 
minutes should have included details about the hiring and proposed terms of employment of the 
chosen finalist. While minutes do not have to a transcript, it is insufficient to state simply that "a 
discussion was had" about a particular topic; rather, the minutes should include sufficient detail 
about the discussion so that a member of the public who was not present for the meeting could 
understand what, in fact, was discussed. OML 2014-34; OML 2014-12. 
With respect to the Board's September 8 and September 15 minutes, we find that they 
were accurate overall, however they omit necessary detail for some topics. For instance the 
discussion of the topic "review and approve warrants" does not include any information about 
the specific warrants reviewed. The minutes should also have included the specific type of 
training requested by Ms. Wheeler. In addition, the sections concerning public participation 
vaguely state, "answers one question from a resident." While it is not necessary to record the 
comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where there are 
speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual speaks at some length or is 
the only one to offer an argument for or against a particular subject, that person and his or her 
comments should be identified in the minutes. OML 2013-47; OML 2012-29. Flere, therefore, 
the person submitting the question and the nature of the question itself should have been 
recorded in the minutes. 
Because certain topics lack sufficient detail in the four sets of minutes at issue, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board to draft and approve revised 
minutes for its September 8; September 12; September 15, and September 22 meetings that 
contain an accurate summary of the discussions that occurred during each meeting. This task 
must be done within 30 days of receipt of this determination. 
II. The Board Failed to Follow the Requisite Procedures for Responding to These 
Complaints. 
We find that the Board also violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the 
complaints in a timely manner. The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days 
after receiving a complaint the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We find that 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the Board committed several violations in responding to this complaint. First, the Board did not 
discuss this complaint prior to Mr. Kleman's response. While a public body may authorize an 
individual such as the Town Administrator to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open 
Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations require that the entire public body first 
review the Open Meeting Law complaint. Sec G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
Second, Mr. Kleman sent the response to Ms. Wetherell on October 30, two business 
days after the fourteen-day deadline, even though the Board did not request an extension of time 
to respond to the complaint. See OML 2014-34 (in which we reminded the Board about its 
obligation to respond within fourteen business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint). Third, Mr. Kleman failed to send to our office a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken, as required. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply 
with the requirements for responding to these complaints. 
III. The Open Meeting Law Violations Were Not Intentional. 
In 2014, we issued four determinations in which we found that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged in six separate complaints. In one determination, OML 2014-56, 
we found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficient and inaccurate 
meeting minutes. In another, OML 2014-43, we found that the Board failed to follow the 
requirements for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. Although we find here that 
Board violated the law in much the same way, for the reasons stated below we do not find the 
violations identified in this letter to be intentional. 
Since the issuance of our earlier decisions, the membership of the Board has changed and 
Mr. Kleman was hired as Town Administrator. Although ignorance of the law does not excuse 
violations of it, because of this change in personnel we do not find these violations were 
intentional. See OML 2014-42; OML 2013-163. Additionally, we note with approval the 
general improvement we've observed in the Board's minute taking since the first complaints 
were filed with our office. We encourage the Board to continue this trend, using this letter as 
additional guidance. 
Although we do not find an intentional violation in this matter, we continue to have 
serious concerns about the Board's compliance with the law. We therefore order the Board to 
undergo training on the Open Meeting Law within thirty (30) days following its receipt of this 
determination, and to certify to our office that every member of the Board has attended that 
training. The training is to be conducted by an attorney or organization familiar with the 
requirements of the Law and approved by the Division of Open Government. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include accurate and sufficient detail in its meeting minutes and by failing to comply 
with the requirements for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, within 
4 
===PAGE 5===
thirty (30) days of the date of this letter, we order the Board to certify in writing to this office 
that it has completed the following: 
1. Drafted and approved revised minutes for its September 8; September 12; September 
15, and September 22 meetings; and 
2. Completed training on the Open Meeting Law. The training is to be conducted by an 
attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Law and approved by 
the Division of Open Government. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or with 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kimberly Wetherell 
Peru Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 