===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www, mass.gov/ago 
July 11,2017 
OML 2017-116 
William Kenney 
Chair, Fall River Redevelopment Authority 
One Govermnent Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kenney: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on February 13, 2017, alleging 
that the Fall River Redevelopment Authority Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally fded with the Board on or about 
December 12, 2016, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 12, 
2017. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that several topics listed on the Board's 
December 7, 2016 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail. Additionally, Mr. Higgins alleges 
that the Board discussed a topic during that meeting which was not listed on the meeting 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail on its meeting notice. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the complainant's request 
and the Board's response. Finally, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session 
minutes from the Board's December 7, 2016 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on December 7, 2016. Notice 
of this meeting was posted on December 5, 2016 and listed the following among the list of 
anticipated topics: 
1 Mr. Higgins also alleged that the Board failed to file their Open Meeting Law compliance certificates required 
by G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h) with the City Clerk and met in an inaccessible location. Mr. Higgins is satisfied with the 
Board's remedial efforts and considers the allegations resolved. We commend the parties for working together 
to resolve those issues. 
notice. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
3. Waterfront URP Update 
4. Downtown URP Update 
5. Request from MA Industrial River, LLC for Landlord Certificates for the Lease 
Agreement at 81 Commerce Drive, Fall River, MA 
7. Third Street Parking Deck Update 
8. Proposed executive session to discuss real estate matters regarding property located 
at 64 Durfee Street, Fall River, MA pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) 
During the meeting, under item 5, the Board approved a request from its tenant at 81 
Commerce Drive, MA Industrial River, LLC, for three landlord certificates related to that 
property. Under item 7, the Board discussed another property it owns—a parking garage— 
located at Third Street. Board staff provided an update on the status of the garage, including a 
discussion about an architect's appraisal of the necessary repairs. The Board considered 
whether to obtain an independent appraisal to determine if it should make the repairs or sell 
the garage. 
During its executive session discussion about a pending real estate matter. Board staff 
brought up a separate topic concerning Board-owned property that had been submitted earlier 
that day. The Board then reconvened in open session to discuss the status of two ongoing 
Urban Renewals Plans (identified as URPs on the notice). 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.2 We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. The 
date and time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith. 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complaint alleges that the topics, "Request from MA Industrial River, LLC for 
Landlord Certificates for the Lease Agreement at 81 Commerce Drive, Fall River, MA" and 
"Third Street Parking Deck Update" listed on the Board's December 7, 2016 meeting notice 
lacked sufficient detail. We find that the posted topics provided the public with enough 
information and sufficiently reflected the discussions held. See OML 2017-12; OML 2016-
128. Furthermore, the Board's consideration of whether to seek an independent appraisal of 
the Third Street Parking Deck flowed naturally from its discussion on this topic. See OML 
2017-62; OML 2014-112. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post it as a separate topic on the notice. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that the Board discussed a separate real estate matter in 
executive session that was not listed on the meeting notice. Because Board staff learned 
about the issue on the day of the meeting, we find that the topic was unanticipated at the time 
of posting, or at least 48 hours before the meeting, and thus the Board did not violate the law 
by proceeding with the discussion during the meeting. See OML 2017-13; OML 2017-2. We 
note that, while public bodies may discuss a topic that is not listed on a meeting notice if the 
topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we encourage 
public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper notice can be given to the 
public. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
However, we find that the acronym, "URP" for Urban Renewal Plan, is not one that 
members of the public are likely to understand outside of the unique context of redevelopment 
projects. See OML 2016-5 (finding that "PILOT" is not a widely understood acronym); cf. 
OML 201 2015-172 (concluding that "FAA" is a widely understood acronym). Accordingly, 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in this regard. We commend the Board for its 
pledge to discontinue the use of acronyms on future notices. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include sufficient detail on its December 7, 2016 meeting notice. We decline to 
order any remedial action and offer this letter to the Board as future guidance instead. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
John Coughlin, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 