===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 18, 2017 
OML 2017-12 
Carolyn Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received a complaint from Gail McSweeney on October 14, alleging that 
the Pembroke Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 23, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board in a letter dated October 4. In her complaint, Ms. 
McSweeney alleges that the Board discussed her during its September 12 meeting without 
giving her notice. Additionally, Ms. McSweeney alleges that a topic listed on the notice for 
this meeting was not sufficiently detailed. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and video-recording of the Board's September 12 meeting, as 
well as the minutes of the Board's September 19 meeting.2 Finally, on January 4, we spoke to 
the Board's counsel, who relayed information from Board Chair Lewis Stone. 
We find the facts as follows. On September 12, the Board held a meeting, in part, to 
discuss the increased legal fees incurred by the Board of Health in 2016; a topic raised by 
'Board member Arthur Boyle. Chair Stone set the agenda for the meeting, anticipating a 
discussion about the increase in legal fees incurred by the Board of Health, but not 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVMuQQfOI<LXk. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
specifically about the complainant, who is a member of the Board of Health. The meeting 
notice, posted on September 8, listed the topic as "Discussion: Legal Fees." During the 
meeting, Mr. Boyle began the discussion by disclosing that the Town had incurred certain 
legal fees over the last four months due to incidents involving the Board of Health. The 
discussion turned to the cause of the increased legal fees, and specifically to the complainant.3 
The Board first considered a motion to send a letter to the complainant asking for her 
resignation. Upon further discussion, however, this motion failed and the Board approved a 
motion to have Mr. Boyle and the Town Administrator draft a letter to the complainant asking 
her to "begin doing the business that residents elected [her] to do." During its next meeting 
on September 19, under the section on the agenda titled, "Old Business," the Board reviewed 
the letter and voted to send it to the complainant, although the letter was not specifically 
included as a topic on the meeting notice.4 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to 
post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2015-35.5 
The complaint alleges that the topic on the Board's September 12 meeting notice 
regarding legal fees lacked sufficient detail. Although additional information about the 
specific cause of the Town's legal fees would have been useful, we find that the topic as 
listed, "Discussion: Legal Fees," provided the public with sufficient detail about the 
discussion anticipated by Chair Stone; namely, how to address the increase in legal fees 
incurred by the Town. See OML 2015-35; OML 2014-136. Unbeknownst to Chair Stone, 
however, the Board's discussion turned to its perception that the complainant had specifically 
caused the increase in legal fees. Because Chair Stone did not anticipate this discussion about 
the complainant, he was not required to list it on the notice and thus did not violate the law by 
failing to do so. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Accordingly, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We note that, while public bodies may discuss a topic not 
listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of 
3 We note that the minutes do not identify the complainant by name, although her name was mentioned during 
the meeting. We encourage the Board to amend its minutes accordingly. 
4 We remind the Board that general agenda topics such as "Old Business" are vague and do not offer the public 
an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that particular meeting. See OML 2014-140; OML 
2013-14. Best practice is to list more specific topics under the "Old Business" heading. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper 
notice can be given to the public. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Additionally, the complainant alleges that the Board should have notified her that it 
planned to discuss her at the meeting. While our office encourages public bodies to provide 
notice to any individual who may be the subject of an open session discussion, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require specific notice to an individual unless a public body plans to 
convene in executive session "to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"); OML 2016-
70. Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed during such an executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session, and has the right to be present during deliberations, has the right to have counsel 
present, and has the right to speak on her own behalf. IcL In this instance, however, the 
Board held its discussion in open session, rather than executive session. A public body is not 
required to convene an executive session to discuss any particular topic.6 See OML 2015-74; 
OML 2013-2; OML 2011-53. Because the discussion was held in open session, the Board 
was not required to give the complainant individual notice and therefore did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law for failing to do so prior to this meeting. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Gail McSweeney 
Pembroke Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
6 We make no finding as to whether any other law or policy required a closed door discussion of the matter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 