===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 19, 2013 
OML 2013 - 118 
John McWane, Chair 
Hamilton Finance and Advisory Committee 
577 Bay Road 
PO Box 429 
Hamilton, MA 01936 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McWane: 
Our office received a complaint from Richard Boroff, dated February 1, 2013, 
alleging that the Hamilton Finance and Advisory Committee (the "Committee") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on or about November 29, 2012, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee on December 19, 2012.1 In his complaint, Mr. Boroff alleges that during the 
Committee's November 14, 2012 meeting, upon being notified. Chairman John McWane 
failed to announce that the meeting would be recorded, and that the Committee discussed 
several topics that were not listed on the meeting notice, namely a discussion of the 
Hamilton-Wenham Regional School District budget. 
We reviewed the November 29, 2012 complaint filed with the Committee; the 
Committee's December 19, 2012 response; and the February 1, 2013 complaint filed with 
our office.2 We reviewed the notice and the minutes from the Committee's November 14, 
2012 meeting. We also reviewed portions of an audio recording of the November 14, 2012 
meeting. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Chairman John McWane. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to announce that its meeting was being recorded. We note, however, that the 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 We note that in his request for further review, Mr. Boroff alleges that the Committee did not comply with 
the Open Meeting Law in responding to this complaint. We decline to review the additional allegation 
because it is beyond the scope of the original complaint filed with the public body. However, we remind the 
Committee that while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Chair or Town Counsel to 
respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations require 
that the entire Committee first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Committee has acknowledged this violation and stated its commitment to following this 
requirement in the future. We find that the Committee did not violate the Law when it 
discussed a topic that was not included in the notice for its November 14, 2012 meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
Notice for the Committee's November 14, 2012 meeting, filed with the clerk on November 
9, 2012, listed among the items for discussion the following topic: "4. Review Hamilton 
Budget forecast model." At some point after the meeting notice was posted. Chairman 
McWane, as the liaison to the School Committee, learned that at its next meeting, the 
School Committee would discuss what to do with the $100,000 that the School District 
received from the state above what had been budgeted. Thus, Chairman McWane wanted 
to solicit guidance from his fellow Committee members about the topic at the next meeting 
in preparation for the School Committee's meeting. 
On November 14, 2012, the Committee convened a meeting in open session. 
Shortly before the meeting, the complainant approached Chairman McWane and notified 
him that he would be recording the meeting. At the commencement of the meeting, 
however, Chairman McWane did not announce that the meeting would be recorded. 
According to the meeting minutes, when the Committee reached item 4 on the agenda, 
"discussion ensued" about a budget forecast model using predicting factors that affect the 
Hamilton tax rate. The Committee engaged in a discussion about the Town's budgetary 
considerations, including service vehicles, infrastructure, housing values, taxes, and the 
School District budget. The Committee then discussed several other items on the agenda, 
and later returned to its discussion about the School District. Chairman McWane brought 
up the issue of the $100,000 surplus and noted that, historically, the School Committee 
gave back the money to the towns, but this practice had ceased. Chairman McWane and 
other Committee members agreed that the School District should return the $100,000 to 
the towns. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, 
any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a 
public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to the reasonable 
requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment so as not 
to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting the chair 
shall inform other attendees of any such recordings." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). 
J Chairman McWane could not specifically recall the date; however we note that the School Committee was 
required to post notice for its November 15, 2012 meeting by 7 p.m. on Tuesday, November 13,2012, which 
was fewer than 48 hours before the meeting at issue in this complaint. The School Committee's meeting 
notice listed the School Committee's FY14 budget as a topic for discussion. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices "a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those 
topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2013-22; 2011-
36.4 
The Committee acknowledged in its response that Chairman McWane violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to announce that the meeting would be recorded after being 
notified of such prior to the meeting. The Committee has stated its commitment to 
following this requirement in the future. 
With regard to the second allegation in the complaint, the Committee contends that 
the discussion about the School's $100,000 budgetary surplus and the School District's 
budget are significant factors that affect the Town's tax rate and therefore fell within the 
parameters of Item 4 on the notice. We find that the topic, "4. Review Hamilton Budget 
forecast model," on the meeting notice, while sufficiently specific for the discussion about 
the School's budget as it related to the forecast model, was not sufficiently specific to 
notify the public of the discussion that occurred about the School District's $100,000 
budgetary surplus. However, it is unclear that Chair McWane reasonably anticipated 
discussing this topic 48 hours in advance of the meeting. We therefore find no violation of 
the Law, but remind the Committee that a public body may only consider a topic at a 
meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting.5 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce 
that its meeting was being recorded; however, the Committee did not violate the Law when 
it discussed a topic that was not included in the notice for its November 14, 2012 meeting. 
We therefore order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 See also OML FAQ; Meeting Notices, available at the Attorney General's website: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting 
topic is proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to 
provide the public with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
Although a public body may consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the 
Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting 
notice. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Richard Boroff 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 