===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 15, 2021 
OML 2021 – 83 
Forrest Lindwall 
Chair, Stoughton Redevelopment Authority 
Joseph Charbonneau 
Stoughton Town Planner  
By email only: ; 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Lindwall and Mr. Charbonneau: 
This office received two complaints from Joseph Mokrisky on November 6, 2020, 
alleging that the Stoughton Redevelopment Authority (the “Authority”) and the Stoughton 
Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The 
complaints were originally filed with the Authority and the Board on August 31 and Authority 
Chair Forrest Lindwall responded, on behalf of the Authority, by letter dated September 1, while 
Board Chair Joseph Scardino responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 11.  
Both complaints allege that a quorum of the Authority and the Board jointly met with the 
Stoughton Select Board (the “Select Board”) in executive session on August 25 without posting 
notice.   
Following our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Authority’s response to the complaint, 
the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice and executive session minutes of the Select Board meeting 
held on August 25. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Both the Authority and the Board are five-member public 
bodies; thus three members constitute a quorum.  There are no common members between the 
Authority, the Board, and the Select Board. 
 
On Friday, August 21 at 11:41 A.M., the Select Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on Tuesday, August 25 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed two topics - an executive session to 
discuss “strategy with respect to negotiations with nonunion personnel pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
Section 21(a)(2) (Town Manager)” and an executive session to “consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease, or value of real property pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(6) [31 Porter 
Street-Post Office site].”  Approximately two hours after the notice was posted, the Select Board 
invited both the Authority and the Board to the August 25 meeting.  Neither the Board nor the 
Authority posted notice for the August 25 meeting with the Select Board. 
 
The August 25 meeting of the Select Board was held as planned.  Three of the five 
Authority members were present at this meeting, as well as three of the five Board members.  
During the executive session, the Select Board discussed concerns with and possibilities for the 
sale of the Post Office site.  One Authority member explained that the Authority had previously 
discussed subdividing the area and would further discuss the possible development of green 
space at the site during its meeting next week.  Another Authority member then expressed her 
opinion about possible funding relating to the rezoning and redevelopment of the area.  Two 
members of the Board asked questions regarding the role of the Downtown Task Force with 
respect to the site and who would ultimately negotiate the sale of the Post Office site. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and 
listings of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).   
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.2  One permissible reason for a public body to 
convene in executive session is “to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real 
property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).   
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Authority and the Board failed to post notice when it met 
with the Select Board in executive session on August 25.  The Authority and the Board respond 
that they relied on the advice of the Select Board that their presence at the August 25 meeting 
would not violate the Open Meeting Law because they were simply there “for the purpose of 
information sharing and informational updates.”  The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting,” in 
relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  Here, a 
quorum of both the Authority and the Board were present at the August 25 executive session 
meeting.  Therefore, we next determine whether the Authority or the Board communicated about 
public business during the executive session meeting.  
 
We find that the Authority deliberated during the August 25 executive session meeting 
where two members of the Authority provided updates on and shared their opinions about 
matters relating to the Post Office site that had previously been discussed and were still pending 
before the Authority.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition 
of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  Any communication 
among a quorum of a public body on matters that are pending or will come before it and within 
the public body’s jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; 
OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).  As 
such, the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum deliberated in executive 
session with the Select Board on August 25 without having posted notice of that meeting. 
The Select Board has released the executive session minutes of the August 25 meeting and we 
find that these minutes contain an accurate summary of the discussions that occurred during the 
meeting, including the discussion by the Authority; therefore, we order no additional relief.3  See 
OML 2014-150.   
 
Whether the Board deliberated is a closer call.  Although two members of the Board 
asked questions about the Post Office site, we find that these communications were not related to 
public business within the Board’s jurisdiction as the questions merely sought clarification on the 
role of other town public bodies and employees with respect to the sale of the Post Office site.  
Thus, we find that the Board did not deliberate during the Select Board’s August 25 executive 
session, and therefore did not hold a “meeting” requiring notice under the Open Meeting Law.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b); OML 2013-156. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 We remind the public bodies that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  As 
such, we strongly encourage the Authority to review and adopt a copy of the Select Board’s minutes, as it was 
functionally a joint meeting of the two bodies.  See OML 2013-38; OML 2011-16.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum deliberated in 
executive session at the Select Board’s meeting on August 25 without having posted notice of 
that meeting.  However, we find that the Board did not deliberate during the August 25 executive 
session meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements by the 
Authority, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law.   
   
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority or the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Joseph Mokrisky – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
