===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 28, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 91  
 
 
Elisabeth C. Goodman, Esq. 
Cain Hibbard & Myers PC 
66 West Street 
Pittsfield, MA 01201-5764 
 
By e-mail only:  egoodman@cainhibbard.com 
 
RE:            Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goodman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Richard Bell on April 28, 2020, alleging that the 
Richmond Affordable Housing Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 18, 
2020, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 9, 2020. In his 
complaint, Mr. Bell alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by not “posting” 
meeting minutes, agendas, or signed Open Meeting Law certification forms to the Town of 
Richmond’s website.  
 
After reviewing the complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further 
review filed with our office, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id.  
For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the 
clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). Alternatively, a municipality may designate a 
website as its official notice posting location for all public bodies within the municipality. 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b).  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complaint alleges that meeting agendas have not been “posted” to the municipal 
website. The Town of Richmond has not adopted the municipal website as the official notice 
posting method; rather, meeting notices are posted to a bulletin board located outside of Town 
Hall. Here, the Committee posted notices of its meetings to this bulletin board. As such, we find 
that the Committee complied with the Open Meeting Law’s notice posting requirements and did 
not violate the law by not also posting meeting notices to the municipal website. See OML 2020-
20; OML 2015-156.1  
 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee has continuously failed, since the 
Committee was created in 2014, to “post” minutes on the municipal website. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). These minutes must be reviewed and approved by the 
public body in a timely manner, that is, within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2). However, the Open Meeting 
Law does not require that public bodies post their minutes to a website or elsewhere, but only 
that minutes be approved in a timely manner and made available within 10 days of a request. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see OML 2017-98; OML 2017-25. Therefore, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law where the Committee did not post meeting minutes to the municipal 
website.2 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that Committee members’ Open Meeting Law certification 
forms were also not “posted” to the municipal website. The Open Meeting Law states that 
“[within] 2 weeks of qualification for the office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify 
... the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 
and a copy of the educational material prepared by the attorney general explaining the open 
meeting law and its application pursuant to section 19.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The Law further 
states that “the appointing authority, city or town clerk or the executive director or other 
appropriate administrator of a state or regional body, or their designees, shall obtain such 
certification from each person upon entering service and shall retain it subject to the applicable 
records retention schedule where the body maintains its official records.” Id.3 The Open Meeting 
Law does not address in what form and for how long the certification forms must be retained, nor 
does it require that certification forms be posted to a website. See OML 2019-28, fn.5. The 
Committee asserts that it obtains Open Meeting Law certification forms for all new Committee 
members promptly after each member is appointed. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law where Committee member’s certification forms were not posted to the municipal 
website.  
 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
2 We note, however, that under the Public Records Law, effective January 1, 2017, the Supervisor of Records within 
the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth requires that a municipal public records access officer, “to the 
extent feasible, post commonly available public record documents on a website maintained by the municipality.” 
See 950 CMR 32.04(5)(g). Concerns regarding compliance with the Public Records Law should be directed to the 
Public Records Division within the Secretary’s Office. 
3 The retention schedule for municipal records promulgated by the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office may be 
found here, https://www.sec.state.ma.us/arc/arcpdf/Municipal_Retention_Schedule_20190321.pdf. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
In his request for further review, the complainant clarified that the Committee has also 
failed to create and maintain meeting minutes. We generally decline to review an allegation that 
was not included within the original complaint to the Committee because the Committee has not 
had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). We find that 
this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint and thus we do not review its 
merits. Additionally, our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized accusations. See OML 2019-44. However, we note our concern with the 
Committee’s failure, based on its own information, to create minutes for at least one meeting in 
2014, three meetings in 2015, four meetings in 2016, and three meetings in 2017. We remind the 
Committee of its obligations under the law to create and maintain meeting minutes, and 
recommend that it create meeting minutes for past meetings for which minutes have not been 
created to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the memories 
and individual notations of the attendees. See OML 2020-10.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
Assisted by:  Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
  
cc:        Richard Bell – By e-mail only: rbell@richmondma.org 
Richmond Affordable Housing Committee c/o Town Administrator Danielle Fillio –  
By e-mail only: townadmin@richmondma.org 
 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
