===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 15, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 129 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael Sacco, Esq. 
Sacco & Collins, P.C. 
msacco@msaccolaw.net  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Sacco: 
 
This office received a complaint from the City of New Bedford Solicitor’s Office (the 
“Complainant”)
1 on April 24, 2024,2 alleging that the New Bedford Retirement Board (the 
“Board”), and specifically the Board’s chair, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 8, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated March 21. The complaint alleges that “[o]n February 12, 
2024, the [Board] knowingly violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating and voting on the 
election of a fifth board member, a matter that was posted for a separate meeting the follow 
night.”  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
adjourned its February 12 meeting and then convened a new meeting approximately two minutes 
later without having posted notice for the second meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
the minutes of the Board’s February 12 meeting, and the February 12 and 13 meeting notices. 
Finally, we considered the Bristol Superior Court’s Decision and Order issued on April 16 
resolving a complaint filed in that court related to the same facts and allegations at issue here.  
 
 
 
 
1 The original complaint filed with the Board was filed by Eric Jaikes, New Bedford City Solicitor. The request for 
further review filed with our office was filed by Attorney Jennifer King of Valerio, Dominello & Hillman, LLC.  
2 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The Board manages the New Bedford contributory retirement system, pursuant to 
Massachusetts General Laws chapter 32. The Board is a five-member body, the makeup of which 
is set forth in section 20(4)(b) of chapter 32, which states, in part, that the Board’s fifth member, 
 
shall not be an employee, a retiree, or official of the governmental unit and shall be 
chosen by the other four [members] for a term of three years. If the fifth member is 
not chosen by the other four members within thirty days after the expiration of the 
term of the fifth member, said member shall be appointed in a city by the mayor, 
subject to confirmation by the city council. 
 
The term of the Board’s fifth member, Susan Thompson, was set to expire on January 31. 
The Board interviewed candidates for the fifth member position in January but none of the 
candidates received a majority vote of the Board approving their appointment.  
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 12 at 4:00 p.m.
3 The sole 
topic included on the notice was, “New Bedford Retirement: 5th Member Interviews.” The 
Board also posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 13 at 4:00 p.m. The sole topic 
included on the notice was, “New Bedford Retirement: 5th Member Vote.” During the February 
12 meeting, the Board interviewed Attorney Christopher T. Saunders for the fifth member 
position.  
 
After the interview was complete and Attorney Saunders had left the room, but before the 
Board adjourned the meeting, a Board member informed the other members that Town Hall 
would be closed the following day, February 13, due to a forecasted snowstorm. The Board then 
discussed whether to vote on the appointment of the fifth member that evening since it seemed 
likely that the meeting scheduled for the following day would be canceled due to the storm.    
 
According to an affidavit provided by Board member Angela Natho in connection with a 
related Superior Court case discussed further below, the Board’s Executive Director, Attorney 
Eric C. Cohen, raised the question of whether proceeding with a vote on the appointment that 
evening would violate the Open Meeting Law where the vote was included on the notice for the 
February 13 meeting. Ultimately, the Board decided to “adjourn the current meeting and 
immediately open a new meeting for purposes of voting on the 5
th member appointment,” and 
passed a motion to “adjourn and reopen a new meeting for purposes of taking a vote to appoint a 
 
3 We note that the notice for the February 12 meeting was not timely posted to the City’s website, 
http://www.newbedford-ma.gov/, which is its official notice posting location. The Board asserts in its response that 
the notice was posted on February 8; however, the time stamp included on the notice and on the City’s website 
indicates that the notice was not posted until February 9 at 8:46 a.m. We remind the Board that it is the Board’s 
responsibility to ensure that notices for its meetings are posted “at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Additionally, we have consistently stated that to 
comply with the requirement that notice topics include sufficient specificity, 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b), the names of 
candidates to be interviewed for employment or appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of the meeting 
should be listed on the meeting notice. See, e.g., OML 2023-15; OML 2022-219; OML 2020-80; OML 2019-24; 
OML 2018-94; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163; OML 2011-23. The Complainant did not raise either of these 
concerns in the complaint, nor point to them as additional grounds for the requested remedial order.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
5th member.” The meeting was adjourned at 4:50 p.m. and the new meeting convened at 4:52 
p.m. During the second meeting, the Board, after discussion, voted to appoint Attorney Saunders 
as the fifth member of the Board. The Board did not hold its meeting that had been scheduled for 
February 13.       
 
 On April 5, Attorney Eric Jaikes, New Bedford’s City Solicitor, on behalf of himself and 
five other registered voters, initiated a civil action in Bristol Superior Court pursuant to 
Massachusetts General Laws chapter 30A, section 23(f). The Superior Court complaint was 
based on substantially the same facts as those presented in the complaint before our office, and 
alleged that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on February 12 by “taking up a matter 
that was not posted on their agenda and by also conducting a second, unposted meeting on 
February 12 . . . .” Jaikes v. New Bedford Ret. Bd., Civil Action No. 2473CV00285 (Bristol 
Superior Court). The April 5 complaint sought, in addition to an order finding that the Board had 
intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law, an order nullifying the Board’s February 12 vote 
and imposing on the Board’s chair a civil penalty of $1,000.   
 
On April 16, the Bristol Superior Court (O’Shea, J.) issued a written decision finding that 
the Board had violated the Open Meeting Law when it adjourned its February 12 meeting and 
then convened a new meeting two minutes later, for which notice had not been posted. The Court 
found that the violation was intentional where the Board had been warned by the Executive 
Director about a possible Open Meeting Law violation, yet proceeded anyway. The Superior 
Court ordered the Board to pay a $500 civil penalty for the intentional violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. The Superior Court expressly considered, but did not grant, the Complainant’s 
request to nullify the Board’s February 12 vote.  
 
After the Superior Court’s decision was issued, Attorney Jennifer King of Valerio, 
Dominello & Hillman, LLC, filed the March 8 Open Meeting Law complaint with our office for 
further review. The request for further review does not take issue with the Superior Court’s 
finding that the Board intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law, but rather asks our office to 
nullify the Board’s February 12 vote where the Superior Court had declined to do so and order 
the Board’s “further compliance with the Open Meeting Law.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
After review, we find, for substantially the reasons set forth in the Superior Court’s April 
16 decision, that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it convened a second meeting 
on February 12 for which no notice had been posted.
4 See Jaikes v. New Bedford Ret. Bd., Civil 
Action No. 2473CV00285 (Bristol Superior Court). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except 
in an emergency as that term is defined in the Law, “a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, we find that the notice for the Board’s February 12 meeting 
adequately encompassed any discussion or vote regarding the fifth member appointment and 
 
4 On May 20, Attorney King provided a supplemental filing to our office arguing that the doctrine of issue 
preclusion should not apply to the Open Meeting Law complaint before the Division. We do not rely on the doctrine 
of issue preclusion in reaching this determination, but rather have fully reviewed the complaint filed with our office 
and independently reach the same conclusions as the Superior Court.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
would have been sufficient had the Board voted during the first February 12 meeting. This 
finding comports with our many past determinations explaining that it is reasonably foreseeable 
that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a 
meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice separately indicate the 
possibility of a vote. See, e.g., OML 2023-186; OML 2021-153; OML 2019-157; OML 2019-36; 
OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75; see also Three Registered Voters v. Bd. of Selectmen of 
Lynnfield, 90 Mass. App. Ct. 15, 19 (2016) (“Nothing in § 20(b) requires anything more than 
listing the topics reasonably anticipated by the chair to be discussed at the meeting.”).5 Although 
the Board could have properly voted during the first February 12 meeting, we find, as the 
Superior Court did, that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it adjourned the first 
February 12 meeting and convened a second February 12 meeting for which no notice was 
posted. See OML 2014-6; OML 2020-165 (“[S]hould the Board wish to continue to discuss a 
topic within its jurisdiction after a meeting is adjourned, the Board should postpone discussion 
until such a time as notice can be properly posted.”). 
 
With respect to the Complainant’s request that the Division nullify the Board’s February 
12 vote, after consideration of the facts before us, we decline to nullify the vote. As explained 
above, the February 12 notice topic was sufficient to cover potential deliberations and votes 
regarding the appointment of the fifth member. Therefore, the only violation of the Open 
Meeting Law that we find was that the Board adjourned the noticed February 12 meeting and 
voted during a second meeting convened two minutes later, rather than voting during the first 
meeting. We find that the Board’s procedural misstep of adjourning the first February 12 
meeting and convening a new meeting two minutes later does not justify the relatively severe 
remedy of nullification.
6  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it adjourned the noticed February 12 meeting and then convened a meeting two minutes 
later for which notice had not been posted. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Law. Because the Superior Court imposed a civil penalty for the intentional 
violation it found, we do not order further remedial action.   
 
  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 We also do not find that this procedural misstep was taken for the purpose of depriving the public of access to the 
vote. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: New Bedford Retirement Board c/o Eric C. Cohen, Esq., Executive Director  
(via email: ecohen@newbedfordretirement.org) 
Eric Jaikes, New Bedford City Solicitor (via email: EJaikes@newbedford-ma.gov)  
Jennifer King, Esq. (via email: Jennifer.King@VDHBoston.com) 
Dennis Farias, City Clerk (via email: dennis.farias@newbedford-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
