===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 6, 2016 
OML 2016-167 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
c/o John McAuliffe 
Swansea Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 22, alleging that 
the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 23, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 14. The complaint alleges 
that the Board's June 22 meeting notice failed to identify the specific candidates for re-
appointment to boards and committees and failed to include any specific information about 
the topic concerning trash fee abatements. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the Board's June 22 
meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. During its June 22 meeting, the Board approved the 
annual appointments for the Town's local boards and committees and approved several 
trash abatement applications. The meeting notice, posted on June 17, listed the topics as 
"Item 4 Annual Re-Appointments" and "Item 7 Trash Fee Abatements," but did not 
identify the candidates considered for re-appointment or the names of the trash fee 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
abatement applicants, either on the notice or posted as an attachment with the notice. The 
minutes of the meeting refer to a list of candidates for re-appointment that is physically 
attached to the minutes and describe the discussion as a motion "to approve the 
appointments of the individuals, along with their respective terms as presented." When the 
Board turned to its discussion about the trash fee abatement applications, the minutes state 
that the Board voted "to accept the trash abatements as presented," but do not otherwise 
provide any specific information about the applicants or the reasons presented. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that two topics on the Board's June 22 meeting notice 
concerning the annual reappointments and the trash fee abatements lacked sufficient detail. 
We agree and find that the topics as listed on the notice should have included specific 
details about each appointment and each abatement applicant, respectively. See OML 
2016-90; OML 2011-11. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. Additionally, we note that, while referencing in the minutes an attached list of the 
candidates for re-appointment was appropriate, the minutes should have included 
information on each abatement application that it discussed. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). We 
encourage the Board to update its minutes accordingly. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail on its June 22 meeting notice. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 