===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 5, 2017 
OML 2017-72 
Michael D. Powers, Counsel 
Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board 
1000 Washington Street 
Suite 810 
Boston, MA 02118 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Powers: 
This office received a complaint from James Steere, dated January 23, 2017, 
alleging that the Massachusetts Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on November 2, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated December 16, following an extension of time granted by our office. Specifically, 
the complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive session for an improper 
purpose on October 4, and that the Board failed to provide Mr, Steere with 48 hours' 
notice that he would be discussed during the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
because the discussions pertaining to Mr. Steere during the Board's October 4 executive 
session did not fall under the quasi-judicial exception. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. Additionally, we reviewed the 
notice for the Board's October 4 meeting, as well as open and executive session minutes 
of the Board's June 22, August 3, September 7, and October 4 meetings. Finally, we 
spoke with you by telephone on February 27, 2017.2 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. James Steere is a licensed motor vehicle damage 
appraiser for The Hanover Insurance Company. On April 1, a complaint was filed with 
the Board against Mr. Steere (Complaint 2016-4) and another individual (Complaint 
2016-5), whom Mr. Steere supervised, in their capacity as licensed motor vehicle damage 
appraisers. On June 22, the Board met in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1") to discuss the complaint against Mr. Steere. Mr. Steere, along with his 
attorney, Owen Gallagher, appeared before the Board in the executive session and agreed 
to mediate the matter with the Board. On August 3, the Board again met in executive 
session under Purpose 1 with both Mr. Steere and Attorney Gallagher present. Attorney 
Powers, the Board's Legal Counsel, informed the Board that mediation had been 
unsuccessful but that Mr. Steere wanted to try and reach a mutually agreeable resolution 
of the complaint. Attorney Powers and Attorney Gallagher agreed to work together 
towards a resolution of the complaint. On September 7, the Board once again met in 
executive session under Purpose 1 with Mr. Steere and Attorney Gallagher present. 
During this meeting. Attorney Gallagher requested that the complaint against Mr. Steere 
be dismissed or that the Board conduct a formal adjudicatory hearing. The Board voted 
to initiate a formal hearing. 
The notice for the Board's October 4 meeting included the following anticipated 
executive session discussion topics: 
Executive session to review and discuss the background of applicants for motor 
vehicle damage appraiser test who have disclosed a criminal conviction of the 
application. Review and discussion of the draft of an Order to Show Cause in 
Complaints (sic) 2016-4, and Complaint 2016-5, along with a discussion of 
potentially assigning a Board Member as Presiding Officer for the administrative 
hearing. Complaint 2016-8, Complaint 2016-10, and Complaint 2016-12 filed 
against motor vehicle damage appraisers licensed by the Auto Damage Appraiser 
Licensing Board. Such discussions during the executive session are allowed for 
under M.G.L. c. BOA, § 21 (a)(1). 
In addition, a portion of the executive session is also exempt because it is 
considered a meeting of the Board covered under subsection (d) of Section 18, of 
General Laws Chapter 3OA as "a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission 
held for the sole purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory 
proceeding brought before it." 
During the October 4 meeting, the Board announced that it would enter into 
executive session to "review and discuss the background of applicants for motor vehicle 
damage appraiser test who have disclosed a criminal conviction on the application." The 
Board also voted to enter into executive session to review and discuss a draft of an Order 
to Show Cause in Complaints 2016-4 and 2016-5, along with a discussion of potentially 
assigning a Board Member as presiding officer for the administrative hearing. In 
addition, the Board stated that it would discuss unrelated Complaints 2016-8, 2016-10, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and 2016-12 filed against three other licensed motor vehicle damage appraisers. The 
Board Chair stated that such "discussions during executive session are allowed for under 
M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1)." Finally, the Board Chair stated that a portion of the 
executive session would be a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for 
the sole purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought 
before it. The Board then approved a 3-0 vote by roll call to convene in executive session. 
Prior to the Board convening in executive session, Attorney Gallagher requested 
that, if the Board intended to discuss Complaint 2016-4, he and Mr. Steere be allowed to 
attend that portion of the executive session. The Board informed Attorney Gallagher that 
he and his client could not attend the session because any discussions regarding 
Complaint 2016-4 would involve attorney client communications related to the 
preparation of the Order to Show Cause. 
The Board then convened in executive session and first met with an applicant who 
revealed a criminal conviction on his application for the motor vehicle damage appraiser 
examination. The Board also met with the licensed motor vehicle damage appraisers 
(and their attorneys) who were the subjects of Complaints 2016-8, 2016-10, and 2016-12. 
In between the above deliberations, the Board discussed Complaints 2016-4 and 
2016-5 regarding Mr. Steere. Neither Attorney Gallagher nor Mr. Steere were present 
during this discussion. First, the Board Chair requested an update from Attorney Powers 
regarding these complaints. Attorney Powers stated that he was drafting an Order to 
Show Cause. He then summarized the previous interactions between the Board, Mr. 
Steere and Attorney Gallagher. Specifically, Attorney Powers reminded the Board that 
Mr. Steere and Attorney Gallagher appeared before it in executive session three prior 
times in June, August and September; that in June, the parties agreed to attempt 
mediation, that in August, Attorneys Gallagher and Powers decided to attempt to reach a 
mutually agreeable resolution, and that in September, Attorney Gallagher requested that 
the Board issue a formal complaint and the Board voted to do so. Attorney Powers 
concluded by stating that Mr. Steere and Attorney Gallagher had been provided with 
many opportunities to resolve the complaint, but that they did not have the right to be 
present at this portion of the executive session where Attorney Powers was providing 
legal advice with respect to the legal elements that should be included in the Order to 
Show Cause. Attorney Powers then asked the Board whether two specific alleged 
violations of the Board's regulations (212 C.M.R. 2.00) should be included in the Order. 
The Board discussed the alleged violations and decided not to include them in the Order. 
The Board then invited Attorney Gallagher and Mr. Steere into the executive 
session. Attorney Gallagher pointed out that eighteen minutes had elapsed since the last 
person left the executive session, and asked the Board whether they discussed, in that 
time frame, the complaint against Mr. Steere. Attorney Powers advised Attorney 
Gallagher that he provided legal advice to the Board regarding the Order to Show Cause 
and then the Board had a brief discussion about the Order. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's October 4 executive 
session discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body 
be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for 
the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is to "discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 21(a)(1). When a public body enters into executive session under Purpose 1, the 
individual to be discussed in the executive session must be afforded certain rights. Id. 
The individual must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the 
proposed executive session. Id. The individual also has the right to request that the 
session be open; to be present at such executive session during deliberations which 
involve that individual; to have counsel or a representative of his or her own choosing 
present and attending for the purpose of advising the individual and not for the purpose of 
active participation in the executive session; to speak on his or her own behalf; and to 
cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by audio-recording or 
transcription, at the individual's expense. Id. With respect to the Board's discussions 
involving the motor vehicle damage appraiser applicant with the criminal conviction and 
Complaints 2016-8, 2016-10, and 2016-12, the Board properly met in executive session 
and afforded the individuals their rights under Purpose 1. 
The Board suggests that the discussions pertaining to Mr. Steere and Complaints 
2016-4 and 2016-5 fell under the Open Meeting Law's quasi-judicial exception. This 
exception states that when a state quasi-judicial public body convenes for the sole 
purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding, it is not holding a 
"meeting" subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 
OML 2013-104.3 Adjudicatory proceedings begin with the Board's issuance of an Order 
to Show Cause why a licensee should not be disciplined. See 801 C.M.R. 1.01(6)(a); 
Bettencourt v. Board of Registration in Medicine, 904 F.2d 772, 773 (1990). See also 
930 C.M.R. 1.01(5) (an adjudicatory proceeding shall be initiated by the filing by the 
State Ethics Commission of an Order to Show Cause setting forth the grounds for such 
action). Here, the Board was presented with a draft order and counsel's recommendation. 
The Board then made a decision as to the specific violations to include in the final order. 
The Board could not invoke the quasi-judicial exception because the adjudicatory process 
had not yet begun as the Board had not issued an Order to Show Cause but simply 
discussed a proposed draft order. Nothing in the Open Meeting Law or in the Board's 
enabling statute would permit it to hold such a discussion in executive session. Contrast 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
G.L. c. 112, § 65C (meetings of the Board of Registration in Pharmacy held for the 
purpose of conducting investigative conferences prior to the issuance of an order to show 
cause or for purposes of discussing the terms of a negotiated settlement of a complaint 
against a license shall not be considered open meetings) (emphasis added). We find that 
the quasi-judicial exception would apply only to deliberations toward a decision to be 
rendered by the Board after it conducts an adjudicatory proceeding and receives all 
evidence. At that point, the Board, which is acting quasi-judicially in the conduct of an 
adjudicatory proceeding, would be free to discuss and deliberate upon the matter 
privately. 
Finally, the Board argues that "the discussions were also exempt under the 
attorney/client privilege doctrine as enunciated by the Supreme Judicial Court in the case 
of Suffolk Construction v. Division of Capital Asset Mgt. 449 Mass. 444 (2007)." Our 
office does not quarrel with the right of the Board to consult with counsel. See OML 
2011-27. However, communication between counsel and a quorum of a public body may 
occur only during a properly posted open meeting or during an executive session held for 
one of the ten enumerated purposes. See District Attorney for Plymouth District v. Board 
of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 633 (1985); OML 2014-97; 2012-55; 
OML 2011-27; OML 2010-6. The attorney/client privilege itself is not an explicitly 
enumerated basis for executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing Complaints 2016-4 and 2016-5 which pertained to Mr. Steere under 
the quasi-judicial exception. We decline to find an intentional violation because the 
Board reasonably but incorrectly applied the quasi-judicial exemption. 
We need not order release of the executive session minutes for the Board's 
October 4 meeting as the minutes have already been publicly released. However, we do 
order the Board to amend the October 4 executive session minutes to include the 
discussion between the Board and Legal Counsel with respect to the legal elements to be 
included in the Order to Show Cause that was omitted from the minutes because that 
portion of the October 4 executive session lacked a proper statutory purpose. The Board 
may not withhold this portion of the minutes, based on priyilege or any exemption under 
the Public Records Law. See OML 2015-10. Finally, we order the Board's immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a similar 
future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not 
resolve any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. 
Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding 
this letter. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: James Steere 
Owen Gallagher, Esq. 
Massachusetts Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may 
obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days 
of receipt of a final order. 
6 