===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 11, 2016 
OML 2016-18 
John Manning, Chair 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners 
401 Central Street, P.O. Box 29 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Manning: 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Perry, dated November 16, 2015, alleging 
that the Rowley Board of Water Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 23, 2015, 
and the Board responded on October 30, 2015. In his complaint, Mr. Perry alleges that the 
Board Chair deliberated by e-mail. 
Following our review, we find that two e-mails sent by former Board Chair Timothy 
Toomey violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
complaint; the Board's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. During the time period relevant to this complaint, the Board 
Chair was Timothy Toomey.1 On October 13, 2015, Chair Toomey sent an e-mail to the Town 
Treasurer and the Town Administrator. The two other Board members were copied on this e-
mail. The e-mail reads, in part, as follows: 
The selectmen have illegally authorized comp time for the Water Department 
superintendent. They allowed 80 hours of unauthorized time to be transferred over to 
another fiscal year (2015 to 2016). It's a salaried position, and as such there is no comp 
time. The Board of selectmen, not the water board, authorized the superintendent to 
commute and use the water department truck for own personal use. I have discovered 
1 Because Mr. Toomey was Chair during the relevant time period, we refer to him as "Chair Toomey" in this letter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
over the last mouth that expense statements on personal use mileage were filled out for 
tax purposes. 
Once again, these expenses were not authorized by the water commissioners nor 
approved at any town meeting. The treasurer's office continues without proper 
authorization to pay these benefits out of the water department's expense funds. The 
water commissioners have control of all operating expenses paid through the enterprise 
fund. 
It does not appear that anyone responded to this e-mail. On October 14, 2015, the 
following day, Chair Toomey sent a second e-mail to the same recipients as the earlier one, 
including the two other Board members. This second e-mail forwarded the text of the first and 
stated simply, "Please respond, second request." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A meeting is defined as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Deliberation is defined in relevant part as, "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is 
generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. Communication on matters 
within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-
15. 
Here, we find that Chair Toomey violated the Open Meeting Law by sending both the 
October 13 and 14, 2015 e-mails. The initial e-mail concerned a matter within the Board's 
jurisdiction—that is, a financial issue within the Board's jurisdiction—and a quorum of the 
Board was copied on the e-mail. This constituted deliberation, and therefore the discussion 
should have taken place during an open meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. By sending 
the latter e-mail, which included the text of the first e-mail, Chair Toomey further communicated 
to a quorum of the Board on matters within its jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (defining 
"deliberation"). This, too, violated the Open meeting Law. Because it does not appear that any 
Board member responded to either e-mail, we find that this was an individual violation of the 
law, rather than a violation by the Board as a whole. See OML 2015-33; OML 2014-148. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that former Board Chair Timothy Toomey 
individually violated the Open Meeting Law. We order Mr. Toomey's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We also order that the Board release to the 
public, within 30 days following receipt of this letter, the two e-mails referenced herein. 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
V 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Joseph Perry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 