===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 18, 2017 
OML 2017-11 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
c/o John McAuliffe, Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 28, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
September 9, and you responded on behalf of the Board in a letter dated September 27. In 
his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that an executive session topic listed on the notice for 
the Board's August 30 meeting was not sufficiently detailed. Additionally, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding the appointments 
to Town boards and committees. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice, open session and executive session minutes from the 
Board's August 30 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on November 18. 
We find the facts as follows. On August 30, the Board convened in executive 
session to discuss ongoing collective bargaining negotiations with certain unions. The 
notice, posted on August 26, listed this topic as follows: 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Executive Session: M.G.L. C.30A, § 21 (a) Subsections 2 & 3 
To discuss strategies in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel, and 
to discuss strategies with respect to contract negotiations and collective bargaining 
with the clerical union, highway union, and police union, and whereas an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the town's position[.] 
Although this topic indicated that the Board planned to discuss strategy with 
respect to negotiations with nonunion personnel, the Board did not, in fact, discuss the 
topic during executive session. Rather, the Board discussed strategies with respect to the 
unions listed on the notice. 
Before the executive session, the Board discussed several topics in open session, 
including voting on candidates for appointment to three separate Town boards. Those 
topics were listed on the notice as "Appointment" followed by the name of the public body 
and the name and address of the candidate for appointment. Several weeks prior to this 
meeting, the Board had directed the Town Administrator to speak with the chairs of the 
respective boards to review resumes and identify finalists. The Board did not discuss the 
candidates outside of a meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature 
of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the August 30 
meeting notice should have listed the names of the nonunion personnel. The Board did not 
discuss any nonunion personnel during this meeting. A meeting notice must include 
sufficient detail to inform the public of the matters to be discussed. However, where a 
public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice. See 
OML 2016-76; OML 2015-37. We therefore find no violation with respect to the 
executive session topic on the notice. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting 
about candidates for appointment to several boards. A "deliberation" is defined in relevant 
part as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction^]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated about 
the candidates outside of a noticed meeting. Rather, the Board had tasked the Town 
Administrator with identifying finalists for the Board's consideration and appointment. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
J f! j 
PIN-
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 