===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 3, 2019 
OML 2019-63
Christopher L. Brown, Esq.
Petrini & Associates, P.C.
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Brown:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Ernest Horn, on behalf of his client 
Thomas O’Loughlin, on January 14, 2019, alleging that the Milford Board of Selectmen (the 
Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on December 5, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated 
December 20. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide notice to the Police Chief 
that he would be discussed during the November 5 meeting, and that the Board should have met 
in executive session because it discussed the reputation and character of the Police Chief during 
that meeting.2
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the Board’s response to the request for further 
review. We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Board’s November 5 
meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3 We find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public 
body may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Mr. O’Loughlin is the Police Chief in Milford.
3 The video recording is available at https://www.voutube.com/watch7vNfEHe7K.iYVo.

===PAGE 2===
has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). One permissible purpose for entering executive session 
is “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed during such an executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session 
and has the right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to speak on his 
own behalf. Id
The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in executive session but 
rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so only for one of the 
enumerated purposes. Here, Board member William Kingkade read a prepared statement during 
the public speak portion of the November 5 meeting. The statement referenced the Police Chief 
and expressed frustration over the actions of a recall group that claimed to support the Police 
Chief.4 Even if the Board discussed the reputation and character of the Police Chief during the 
meeting, it was not required to do so in executive session and the subject of the discussion has no 
right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Board do so. See OML 2012-32.5 
Moreover, except when meeting in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to 
specific individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed during a meeting. See OML 
2013-41; OML 2011-41. Because the Board discussed the Police Chief in open session, it was 
not required to personally notify the Police Chief that it would be discussing him. See OML 
2017-18. Thus, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide him with 
individual notice.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
4 During a September 17 meeting, the Board voted not to renew the Police Chiefs contract. Approximately one 
month later, a group of residents signed an affidavit for a recall petition seeking to remove Mr. Kingkade from the 
Board.
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
cc: Ernest Horn, Esq.
Milford Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
