===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 3, 2013 
OML 2013- 01 
Jason Buffington 
City Solicitor 
City of Taunton 
141 Oak Street 
Taunton, MA 02780 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Buffington: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Ms. Barbara Burgo, dated 
January 10, 2012, alleging that the Taunton City Council (the "Council") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that an October 21, 
2011 letter that Ms. Burgo submitted to the Council was "discussed via e-mails to several city 
council members without my knowledge and I was denied a public forum." The complaint was 
first filed with the Council on November 17, 2011. The Council responded by letter on 
December 6, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
communicating over email with respect to a letter submitted by the complainant to the Council. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the November 17, 2011 complaint filed with the 
Council; the Council's December 6, 2011 response; and the January 10, 2012 complaint. 
Additionally, we reviewed a letter from the City Solicitor dated February 13, 2012. Finally, we 
reviewed a series of emails sent and received by members of the Council between October 21, 
2011 and October 25, 2011. 
FACTS 
The Taunton City Council consists of nine voting members. The Mayor presides over 
the Council, but does not vote and his presence is not measured toward a quorum. As the Chair 
of the meetings, the Mayor works with the City Clerk to set the agenda ahead of each Council 
meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
On October 21, 2011, Ms. Burgo hand-delivered a letter to the Taunton City Clerk's 
office, and requested that it be placed on the agenda for the Council's meeting scheduled for 
October 25, 2011. The City Clerk distributed the letter to all the members of the Council. 
Following distribution of the letter, a number of emails were exchanged between Council 
members. Mayor Charles Crowley sent an email to eight of the nine Council members on 
October 21, 2011, attaching Ms. Burgo's letter and informing them that Ms. Burgo had sent a 
letter "making wild claims that are untruthful." Following that email, Council members 
discussed how to consider the letter, whether its content was appropriate, and the source of the 
content of the letter. While all Councilors were copied on most of the emails, only three actively 
participated in the discussion. Councilor Sherry Costa Hanlon responded, copying the seven 
other Council members, stating in part that "I am asking the law department to determine 
whether this letter needs to be presented in executive session. If not, I believe the letter must be 
presented in this week's agenda as it was presented in the proper time frame and manner." 
Assistant City Solicitor Jordan Fiore, who was not a member of the Council, replied-to-all 
suggesting that the Council consider responding directly to Ms. Burgo. Councilor David Pottier 
replied-to-all agreeing with Attorney Fiore, and discussed the merits Ms. Burgo's letter. 
Councilor Pottier stated that "I think some of [Ms. Brugo's] points in the latest letter are simply 
wrong and it wouldn't make her look good to read it into the record, while it would certainly 
detract from her opinion that certain groups aren't sufficiently represented in the city." 
Councilor Costa Hanlon replied again to the group, including seven other Councilors, 
stating that the "Point appears moot as the agenda has been released with the letter however, I do 
want to ensure we have a legal opinion regarding whether all or portions of this letter should be 
placed on the agenda. I am not dismissing your suggestions but there is a big difference between 
how we respond as individual councilors and how we respond as The Council..." (emphasis in 
original). The discussion continued between Councilors Costa Hanlon and Pottier between 
October 21, 2011 and October 23, 2011, with six other councilors copied on the emails. The 
discussion centered around how to treat Ms. Brugo's letter, where Ms. Brugo was getting her 
information, whether to include the letter in the agenda at the next meeting, and whether to open 
up the floor to allow her and others to address the Council on this matter. Of the Council 
members, only Councilors Costa Hanlon, Pottier, and Daniel Barbour contributed to the email 
discussion. The five other Council members included in the email discussion did not participate. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public," subject to a narrow list of exceptions that can be conducted in executive session. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a). The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). 
A meeting occurs whenever there is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, §18. The law defines deliberation as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
2 
===PAGE 3===
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed" (emphasis added). Id. 
The email exchanges between members of the Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires all deliberations to occur during a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A quorum of the members of a public body may communicate over email in very limited 
circumstances, specifically to discuss scheduling a meeting, distribution of a meeting agenda, or 
distribution of other documents to be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed. Id. Here, the initial email from the Mayor that informed eight of the nine 
Councilors of a letter addressed to the Council was appropriate. The discussion that followed 
included the opinion of Council members on matters within the Council's jurisdiction. Council 
members discussed how to consider the letter, whether its content was appropriate, and the 
source of the content of the letter. Although only three members participated in this discussion, 
and the majority of the emails were sent by Councilors Costa Hanlon and Pottier, a quorum of 
the Councilors were included in the email discussion. 
The Council argues that the emails sent by the Councilors who participated in the 
exchange did not run afoul of the law because the discussion was about a decision whether or not 
Ms. Brugo's letter would be placed on the Council's agenda, which is in the sole discretion of 
the Mayor and the City Clerk. The Council argues that the decision was not public business 
within the Council's jurisdiction, as defined in G.L. c. 30A, § 18. While the decision whether to 
place the letter on the agenda may be within the discretion of the Mayor and the City Clerk, the 
Council still has jurisdiction over addressing the content of the letter and ultimately deciding 
how to respond. 
The Council additionally argues that "the distribution of the letter via email is a clearly 
permitted practice under the Open Meeting Law." We agree with the Council that it may 
distribute a letter over email. The law excludes from the definition of "deliberation" certain 
administrative tasks such as "the distribution of a meeting agenda" and "the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. That exception 
includes a strong caveat, however: such administrative communications are permissible 
"provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. Council members should not have an 
email discussion expressing opinions following the distribution of a letter or document. See 
OML 2012-8; OML 2011-37; OML 2011-35.1  They should either communicate directly with the 
chair or the person setting the agenda, or discuss the matter during a meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by communicating over email 
with respect to a letter submitted by the complainant to the Council. We do not believe that the 
Council members acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law, and acknowledge that it 
can be a difficult to determine when a communication serves an administrative function and 
when it contains substantive discussion in violation of the law. Our best advice continues to be 
that public bodies not communicate over email at all except for distributing meeting agendas, 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's Website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
scheduling meetings, and distributing documents created by non-members to be discussed at 
meetings, which are administrative tasks specifically sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. 
As a result of this violation, we order the Council's immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any other complaints which may 
have been filed with our office or the Council. Please contact me if you have any questions or 
believe any of the facts in this letter are inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
J athan Sclarsic 
/Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Barbara Burgo 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 