===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-197 
Marion Board of Selectmen 
c/o Paul Dawson 
Marion Town Administrator 
Two Spring Street 
Marion, MA 02738 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Dawson: 
This office received two complaints from Ronald Beaty on October 30 and November 
21, alleging that the Marion Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' Lhe complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about 
October 17 and October 26, respectively, and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of 
the Board, by letters dated October 23 and November 14.2 In his first complaint, Mr. Beaty 
alleges that the Board's October 3 meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed as it included 
two acronyms that were not widely understood by the public. In his second complaint, Mr. 
Beaty alleges that the Board failed to meet prior to sending its response to the first complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to meet prior to sending its response to an Open Meeting Law complaint. In reaching 
a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes from the Board's October 3 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On September 29, the Board posted notice for its 
October 3 meeting. Among the topics listed under the heading, "Action Items," the Board 
listed the following topic: "5. Request for appointment to CMWRRDD - W. Dale Jones 
(09/13/17)." Under the heading, "Correspondence," the Board listed the following two topics: 
' All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
2. Request for appointment to CMWRRDD - Stephen Gushing 
3. Request for appointment to MRC - Jeff Doubrava 
During the meeting, the Board tabled the discussion of all three topics until its next 
meeting on October 17 due to the Board chair's absence.3 The complainant filed the 
complaint concerning this meeting on the day of the Board's October 17 meeting. The Board 
decided not to discuss the complaint at that evening's meeting and instead planned to discuss 
the complaint during its next regularly-scheduled meeting on November 7. In the interim, the 
town administrator consulted with counsel and sent the complainant a letter, dated October 
23, outlining the Board's position. During its November 7 meeting, the Board discussed the 
complaint and voted (retroactively) to authorize the town administrator to send the response. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity 
to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the nature of the public body's 
anticipated discussion. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.4 
The complainant alleges that the Board's October 3 meeting notice lacked sufficient 
specificity because it contained three acronyms. However, the Board did not discuss those 
three topics during the meeting; instead, it decided to "table" the discussion until the next 
meeting at which the chair would be present. When a public body does not actually deliberate 
on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that 
topic. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. We therefore find no violation with respect to 
those topics on the notice. We note, however, that our office discourages the use of acronyms 
that are not widely understood by members of the public. See OML 2016-5 (finding that 
"PILOT" is not a widely understood acronym); cf, OML 201 2015-172 (concluding that 
"FAA" is a widely understood acronym). We commend the Board for pledging to comply 
with this requirement going forward. 
The complainant further alleges that the Board failed to review the October 17 Open 
Meeting Law complaint during a meeting prior to sending its response. The Board contends 
that the complaint was received just hours before its meeting, so it postponed discussion until 
its next regularly-scheduled meeting on November 7. Cognizant of the law's requirement to 
respond to the complaint within 14 business days, the town administrator sent a response to 
our office and the complainant by the deadline, on October 23. When an individual files an 
3 We note that one of the acronyms, MRC, was spelled out on the Board's October 17 meeting notice. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the 
complaint to the members of the public body," and "the public body shall meet to review the 
complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). Thus, the chair is required to disseminate 
copies and the public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or 
meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2017-6; OML 2012-90. As the Board concedes, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to meet to discuss the 
complaint prior to sending its response. In order to avoid a violation in the future, the Board 
pledges to schedule a special meeting to review any complaint received. We note that the 
Board may also request an extension of time to respond to the complaint from our office, if 
necessary. See 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to meet prior to sending its response to an Open Meeting Law complaint. We order 
the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 