===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/aao 
William Hewig III, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
July 31, 2017 
OML 2017-121 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Hewig: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated April 5, 2017, alleging that 
the Webster Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 6, 2017, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 24, 2017. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) convening in executive session without a proper statutory 
purpose, and (ii) failing to provide sufficient information about topics to be discussed in 
executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient information about one topic discussed in executive session. In addition, 
the Board discussed one topic in executive session that lacked a valid statutory purpose. 
However, the Board did not violate the law in the other ways alleged in the complaint. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, the minutes of an 
executive session held by the Board on February 27, 2017. Finally, we spoke with the Board's 
legal counsel by telephone on May 31, 2017.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Fhe Board posted timely notice of a meeting to be held on 
February 27, 2017, Among other topics, the notice listed an anticipated executive session 
described as follows: 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
EXECUTIVE SESSION­ G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(3)­ To discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares. 
•   Legal Update­ Attorney William Hewig, KP  Law 
The Board convened the February 27, 2017 meeting as planned. The minutes do not 
indicate what statement, if any, the chair made prior to executive session, and the minutes also 
do not record any vote taken to enter executive session. The minutes of the February 27, 2017 
executive session have not yet been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in 
detail. We generally note that the Board discussed six topics: one threatened litigation matter, 
three additional ongoing litigation matters, the potential settlement of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint with the Attorney General's Office, and an update on proposed changes to the town 
charter that were under consideration by the Webster Charter Review Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may convene in executive session for any of ten statutory purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21. One such statutory purpose allows the body to converse behind closed doors "[t]o 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
The complaint alleges that the Board lacked a valid statutory purpose for the February 27, 
2017 executive session. Indeed, as the complaint highlights, a "Legal Update" does not fit 
within the scope of Purpose 3, which requires that a litigation matter under discussion be 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See OML 2017-43.2 Following our 
review, we find that many of the topics discussed fit within the ambit of Purpose 3, as they 
concerned litigation topics that were either ongoing or about which the Board had a reasonable 
belief that litigation was imminent. See OML 2016-12. Furthermore, a public body may meet in 
executive session to review or otherwise discuss Open Meeting Law complaints. See OML 
2017-4. However, the matter of the town charter did not concern litigation, and it did not fit 
within any of the valid statutory reasons for convening in executive session. See OML 2017-54. 
The Board therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing this topic during the February 
27, 2017 executive session. 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). While 
we will generally defer to a public body's determination of when disclosure of information on a 
meeting notice will compromise the purpose for executive session, the body must produce a 
reasonable explanation for the omission if questioned. See OML 2017-87. Here, we find that 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board failed to include certain required information regarding the anticipated executive 
session. Among the ongoing litigation matters discussed during the executive session at issue, 
one was described by the Board's legal counsel as "dormant," meaning that while the underlying 
matter had not been resolved there were no pending court dates. In conversation with our office, 
the Board's legal counsel could not provide a reason why the name of this litigation matter could 
not have been listed on the meeting notice.3 We therefore find that the inclusion of this 
information would not have compromised the purpose for the executive session, and its 
exclusion from the meeting notice therefore violated the Open Meeting Law. Further, the 
description "Litigation Update" does not indicate to members of the public that the Board would 
discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint. We additionally find that the omission of this 
information violated the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the Board's 
February 27, 2017 discussion of the town charter did not fit within one of the statutory executive 
session purposes, we order the release to the public of that portion of the executive session 
minutes within thirty (30) days. The Board may not redact or withhold this portion of the 
minutes based on privilege or any exemption of the Public Records Law. See OML 2015-10. 
We note that the Board has previously violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
topics in executive session that lacked a proper statutory purpose. See OML 2017-23; OML 
2016-64. Because those violations involved discussions of personnel matters rather than 
litigation, we decline to find that the violations addressed in this letter were intentional. See 940 
CMR 29.02 (defining an intentional violations of the Open Meeting Law). However, we 
strongly caution the Board to ensure that all executive session discussions fit within one of the 
ten statutory purposes in the future. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Webster Board of Selectmen 
3 This dormant litigation matter was discussed twice during the executive session and referred to by two different 
titles. Despite this, we understand from the Board's legal counsel that the discussions relate to the same underlying 
matter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kev 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 