===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 113 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Richard Martin 
Chair, Royalston Select Board 
13 The Common 
PO Box 125 
Royalston, MA 01368 
 
bos@royalston-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Martin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gary Winitzer on April 30, 2024, alleging that the 
Royalston Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 26, 2024, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated March 6, 2024.  The complaint alleges that in 2023, then-
Board Chair Deb D’Amico negotiated the resignation of the town accountant and retained an 
accounting firm to assume accounting functions. 
 
Following review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.1  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed emails produced 
by the parties, including an email from Chair D’Amico to the other members of the Board on 
July 27, 2023. 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
 
1 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
 
2 
 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation,” in part, 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  
 
The Board acknowledges, and we find, that the Board, through Chair D’Amico, violated 
the Open Meeting Law when she communicated with the other members of the Board outside of 
a posted meeting, via email on July 27, 2023.2  In that e-mail, Chair D’Amico informed the other 
Board members about business within the Board’s jurisdiction, to wit, the anticipated departure 
of the town accountant and steps Chair D’Amico took to transition to an outside accounting 
firm.3  In acknowledging the violation of the Open Meeting Law, the Board has pledged to 
“exercise greater vigilance in the future to ensure compliance.” 
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board.  Please 
feel free to contact the Division at (617)963-2540 if you have any questions. 
    
Sincerely, 
             
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc:  Gary Winitzer (via email: ) 
Royalston Town Clerk (via email: Barbara.Richardson@royalston-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
2 In his request for review, the complainant also references an email sent on June 12, 2023.  However, the email of 
that date sent to our office is between the town accountant and Marsha Charest, whom we understand to be the chair 
of the Royalston Community Preservation Committee.  In any event, as the June 12 email was not referenced in the 
original complaint and the Board has acknowledged that it violated the Open Meeting Law in deliberating outside a 
public meeting, we have not investigated the allegation of a violation on June 12, 2023.  
3 To the extent that the complainant alleges that Chair D’Amico violated the Open Meeting Law when she conferred 
independently with the accounting firm, we do not find a violation, as the communication did not involve a quorum 
of the Board and therefore did not constitute deliberation. 
