===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
       June 24, 2026 
 
OML 2026-67 
BY EMAIL ONLY 
 
Timothy P. Houten, Esq. 
Office of the City Attorney 
Lawrence, MA 
 
thouten@cityoflawrence.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Houten: 
 
On December 18, 2025,1 this office received a complaint from Jonathan Guzman, 
alleging that the Personnel Committee of the Lawrence City Council (the “Committee”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2  The complaint was filed with the Committee on 
November 18 and you responded to the complaint on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
December 17.3  The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly convened in executive 
session to interview candidates to be recommended for appointment to the Lawrence School 
Committee. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices of the meetings the Committee held on November 
12 and November 13 and a video recording of the open session held on November 13.
4 
 
1 Requests for review were sent via email on the evenings of December 15 and December 17. 
2 Unless stated otherwise, all dates refer to the year 2025 hereinafter. 
3 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the 
public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; respond to the complainant in 
writing; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a 
public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body,” and “the 
public body shall review the complaint's allegations.”  940 CMR 29.05(3), (5).  Thus, a public body must meet to 
review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint 
within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
4 We accessed the meeting recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1E3zPWw6aA.  We were unable to 
access a recording of the November 12 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a subcommittee of the Council.  The 
Council is comprised of nine members, four of whom are members of the Committee.  Notices of 
meetings held on November 12 and November 13 included the following topic under New 
Business: 
 
451/25 Review Applicants and select Appointee for School Committee Member [Education] 
 - Caryl Garcia, Personnel Director [Executive Session Expected] 
452/25 Review Applicants and select Appointee for School Committee Member [Finance] 
 - Caryl Garcia, Personnel Director [Executive Session Expected] 
453/25 Review Applicants and select Appointee for School Committee Member [Legal] 
 - Caryl Garcia, Personnel Director [Executive Session Expected] 
 
The meetings of November 12 and November 13 went forward as scheduled. During the 
executive sessions, the Committee interviewed candidates to recommend to the Council for 
appointment to the Lawrence School Committee.  Prior to entering executive session on 
November 13, the Committee chair explained the interview process, and stated that the 
Committee would recommend six candidates to the Council following the interviews.  She then 
asked, “Can I have a motion to go into executive session for the purpose of personnel?”  In 
response, a member stated, “Motion to go into executive session.”  A roll call vote was then 
taken to go into executive session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open to members of 
the public, unless an executive session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30 A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public 
body may enter executive session for any of ten purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible 
reason to convene in executive session is to “consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will 
have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause 
shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(8) (“Purpose 8”).  A “Preliminary Screening” is defined as “the initial stage of screening 
applicants conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of 
providing to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or 
interview.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  To meet in executive session under Purpose 8, a preliminary 
screening committee must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of the parent body.  
See OML 2021-70; OML 2019-100; OML 2013-80.5  Furthermore, a preliminary screening 
committee must put forth two or more candidates for the parent public body to consider; it may 
not narrow the pool of candidates to one finalist. See Commonwealth v. Board of Selectmen of 
the Town of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006); OML 2020-147; OML 
2018-142. 
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complainant maintains that the Committee is not a preliminary screening committee 
because it was not formed for the sole purpose of narrowing a pool of applicants for a specific 
position.  According to the complainant, a “standing committee” may not avail itself of Purpose 
8 because it is not a preliminary screening committee formed in response to a specific hiring or 
appointment need.  We disagree.  The Committee’s status as a permanent, standing 
subcommittee of the Council did not prohibit it from acting as a preliminary screening committee 
and meeting in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8.  There is nothing within the Open 
Meeting Law dictating that only committees created to fill a specific position may conduct 
interviews in executive session to narrow the field of applicants.  That the Committee makes 
other recommendations to the Council or that it might perform work other than the 
recommendation of applicants does not disqualify it from acting as a preliminary screening 
committee for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  The Committee is a subcommittee of the 
Council, comprised of less than a quorum of the Council, which screened applicants to provide a 
list of those qualified for further consideration by the Council.  These activities of the Committee 
constituted a “preliminary screening” as defined in the Open Meeting Law.  We therefore find no 
violation in the Committee’s entry into executive session to interview candidates to narrow the 
field for further consideration by the Council.  
 
 Al
though we find no violation, we note our concern with the vote taken to enter executive 
session on November 13.6  The executive session was held to conduct interviews to assist the 
Committee in recommending applicants to the Council.  However, the Committee’s stated 
reason, as articulated when voting to enter executive session, was “for the purpose of personnel.”  
There is no executive session purpose for general discussion of personnel matters.  See OML 
2016-26; OML 2015-126; OML 2014-15.  Moreover, executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session prior to 
convening in executive session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2024-26; OML 
2023-128; OML 2015-55.  Finally, we remind the Committee that when voting to enter executive 
session under Purpose 8, the chair must declare that an open meeting would have a detrimental 
effect in obtaining qualified applicants.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8).  We caution the Committee to 
properly inform the public of Purpose 8 executive sessions going forward, both in the meeting 
notice and in the announcement prior to convening in executive session. 
 
We also note our concern that the notice reflects selection of a single applicant (one each 
in the categories of “education,” “finance,” and “legal”) to be recommended to the Council.  We 
emphasize that a preliminary screening committee meeting in executive session must identify 
more than one finalist for further consideration.  See OML 2025-80; OML 2018-142.  We make 
no finding as to whether the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as to this requirement, 
as this was not an allegation of the complaint.  We note that the chair referenced recommending 
six candidates to the Council.  We caution the Committee to closely follow all requirements of a 
preliminary screening committee when it is acting in that capacity.
 
 
  
 
6 As noted above, we have not viewed a recording of the November 12 meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by acting as a preliminary screening committee and interviewing applicants in 
executive session for the purpose of providing to the Council a list of applicants qualified for 
further consideration or interview by the Council.     
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jonathan Guzman (via email: ) 
 Stephany Infante, Chair, Lawrence Personnel Committee, Sub-committee of the 
Lawrence City Council (via email: Sinfante@cityoflawrence.com) 
 Eileen O’Connor Bernal , Lawrence City Clerk(via email: 
eileen.bernal@cityoflawrence.com) 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
