===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 7, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 114 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Councilor Bryan Sapienza 
North Adams City Council 
10 Main Street 
North Adams, MA 01247 
 
BSapienza@northadams-ma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Councilor Sapienza:  
 
This office received a complaint from Karen Tatro on May 6, 2024, alleging that the 
North Adams City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Council on March 26.1  You responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated April 10.  The complaint alleges that the Council violated 
the Open Meeting Law when it failed to post to the City’s municipal website the minutes of three 
meetings.  
 
Following review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s response, and the request for further review. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve open session 
meeting minutes in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2018-48. 2  Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; 
OML 2017-133.  
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The Council maintains that it timely approved the minutes that are the subject of the 
complaint.3  It does not dispute that the minutes were posted to the municipal website only after 
it received the plaintiff’s complaint but asserts that it was not required to post minutes.  The 
Council’s reading of the Open Meeting Law on this point is correct.  The Open Meeting Law 
does not require public bodies to post meeting minutes.  See OML 2023-179; OML 2015-173; 
OML 2013-117.  Rather, the Law requires that “[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist 
and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person 
within 10 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  As there was no request for the minutes, the Council was 
under no obligation to produce them. 
 
The complainant correctly points out that access to minutes by request removes the 
anonymity which would be available if all minutes were posted online.  Requesting the minutes, 
and waiting up to 10 days for the minutes to be made available, may also be less convenient than 
accessing them online, as alleged by the complainant.  However, we are tasked with enforcing 
the Open Meeting Law as it exists.  Finally, we decline to deem the complaint itself a request for 
minutes, as the complainant invites us to do.  An Open Meeting Law complaint constitutes an 
allegation that a public body already has violated the Law.  The Council was not in violation at 
the time that the complaint was served because it had not yet received a request for the minutes.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,    
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Karen Tatro (via email: ) 
 North Adams City Clerk (via email: TLeonesio@northadams-ma.gov) 
 North Adams Mayor (via email: MayorMacksey@northadams-ma.gov) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
3 The complainant does not dispute this assertion. 
