===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
November 19, 2012 
OML 2012- 110 
Gerald M. Moody, Esq. 
Legal Department, Town of Milford 
Town Hall 
52 Main Street 
Milford, MA 01757-2622 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Moody: 
This office reviewed a complaint dated June 8, 2012, filed by Mr. David S. Cutler, 
alleging that the Milford School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about May 
18, 2012, and your  responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 29, 2012. In his 
complaint, Mr. Cutler alleges that the Committee engaged in a deliberation outside of a properly 
posted meeting prior to a May 10, 2012 meeting when the Committee approved a vote to 
eliminate the position of Director of Safety and Security (the "Director"). Mr. Cutler further 
alleges that the topic regarding the elimination of the Director position was not included in the 
notice for the May 10, 2012 meeting. Mr. Cutler requested that the Committee recall the vote.2  
After reviewing the complaint and the Committee's response, we have decided to resolve 
this complaint by informal action,  in accordance with 940 CMR 29.017(2)(a). We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, but took appropriate remedial action in response to 
the complaint. 
Upon the filing of this complaint, Chairman Patrick Holland and Attorney Moody 
promptly took steps to examine the complaint's allegations. Chairman Holland determined that 
while a deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting did not occur, the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the topic in its meeting notice. During a telephone 
conversation with our office, Chairman Holland stated that he inquired of the other members of 
For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 2  The complainant further requests that the Ethics Commission conduct a formal investigation. The Division of 
Open Government only enforces and interprets the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, and does not have 
jurisdiction to order the Ethics Commission to conduct an investigation. Therefore, we decline to consider this 
request. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
the Committee who were listed on the complaint)  and concluded that a deliberation did not occur 
in advance of the May 10, 2012 meeting. However, Chairman Holland acknowledged that 
Committee member Donald Quattrochio had approached him on April 29, 2012 to discuss the 
elimination of the Director position. During this conversation, Chairman Holland advised Mr. 
Quattrochio that the appropriate time to raise the issue would be during the May 10, 2012 special 
budget meeting. Notwithstanding this conversation, Chairman Holland failed to list the topic on 
the May 10, 2012 meeting notice, which was posted over a week after this conversation on May 
7, 2012. Following a discussion regarding the elimination of the Director position during the 
May 10, 2012 Special Budget meeting, the Committee approved a motion "to accept the FY2013 
School Budget as presented with the removal of the Director of Safety and Security position" by 
a 4-3 vote. 
Consequently, Chairman Holland sought to remedy the Open Meeting Law violation 
during the Committee's next meeting, which was held on May 24, 2012. According to the May 
24, 2012 meeting minutes, Chairman Holland raised the Open Meeting Law violation issue 
during the "Announcements, Correspondence, Distribution" segment of the meeting.2  Chairman 
Holland explained the nature of the Open Meeting Law violation and recommended that the 
Committee reconsider its motion to eliminate the Director position and vote at a later meeting 
after providing adequate and duly-posted notice of the topic. The Committee concurred and 
approved the motion to reconsider their vote at the next Committee meeting. During its next 
meeting on June 7, 2012, the Committee approved a motion to create a subcommittee to review 
the elimination of the Director position before any vote to eliminate the position is reconsidered. 
According to Chairman Holland, the subcommittee expects to report their findings to the 
Committee sometime in the spring 2013. 
We do not find evidence to support the assertion that the Committee improperly 
deliberated in advance of the May 10, 2012 meeting.3  We find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law, however, by failing to include a topic in its meeting notice that the Chair 
reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that "a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and every notice shall include "the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
Along with Chairman Holland, the individual members listed on the complaint are Donald Quattrochio, Robert 
Lanzetta and Scott Harrison. 
2  We note that the May 24, 2012 meeting notice failed to include the Open Meeting Law violation as a topic for 
discussion. The meeting notice was posted on May 15, 2012, however, which was 3 days prior to the filing of this 
complaint and 9 days prior to the scheduled meeting. Public bodies are encouraged to update their meeting notices 
whenever they anticipate discussing an open or executive session topic that arises after posting, but before the 
meeting convenes. See  Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, at 6, available at 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. Chairman Holland had 6 days from the filing of this complaint to post an 
amended meeting notice. 
3  A discussion between a sub-quorum of the Committee (pg., two members of a seven-member public body) would 
not constitute a deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 ("[a] "deliberation" is defined, in 
relevant part as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction."); OML 2011-16. We strongly 
caution the Committee, however, to be mindful of the need to avoid serial communications between members that 
may result in policy decisions being made behind closed doors. OML 2012-10. A public body may not engage in a 
serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on 
a particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty,  71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but 
the chair does need to list those topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
See OML 2012-58; 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13.1  
It is clear that Chairman Holland anticipated at least a week before the May 10, 2012 
meeting that Mr. Quattrocchio would likely raise the topic at that meeting and therefore should 
have included the topic in the meeting notice. The Committee promptly made efforts to remedy 
the violation at the following two meetings, however. In addition, Chairman Holland asked 
Attorney Moody to conduct a presentation on the Open Meeting Law to the Committee. In a 
letter to our office dated September 24, 2012, Attorney Moody confirmed that the presentation to 
the Committee occurred on September 20, 2012. 
In addition to the remedial steps already taken by the Committee, we order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the 
Committee that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. This determination 
does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Committee. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 David Cutler 
Milford School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 