===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 16, 2019 
OML 2019-50
Michael D. Powers, Esq.
Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board 
1000 Washington Street 
Suite 810
Boston, MA 02118
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Powers:
This office received a complaint from Gary Cloutier, dated October 26, 2018, alleging 
that the Massachusetts Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board (“ADALB” or the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on or about September 26, 2018 and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated October 22, 2018. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to follow its 
Guidelines for AD ALB Complaint Procedures, improperly entered into executive session in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, and further violated the Open Meeting Law when it did not 
give the complainant an opportunity to attend and be heard at the executive session.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the September 26, 2018 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board’s October 22, 2018 response; and the October 26, 2018 complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. Additionally, we reviewed the open and executive session 
minutes of the Board’s June 22, 2016, October 4, 2016, February 27, 2018, May 9, 2018 and 
June 20, 2018 meetings. Finally, we spoke with the complainant, Mr. Cloutier, by telephone on 
March 6, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On April 1, 2016, Mr. Cloutier filed an AD ALB complaint 
with the Board against Paul Horton (Complaint 2016-5), in Mr. Horton’s capacity as a licensed
o
1

===PAGE 2===
motor vehicle damage appraiser.1 The complaint was initially listed on the agenda for executive 
session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”) for the Board’s June 22, 2016, meeting, but 
in part due to action taken on related matters in the interim, the complaint was not brought 
forward and heard in executive session until the Board’s February 27, 2018 meeting. Mr. Horton 
appeared during the executive session with his attorney, Owen Gallagher. Attorney Gallagher 
requested that the Board reconsider the matter at the Board’s next meeting, which the Board 
voted to do.
At the Board’s June 20, 2018 meeting, the Board entered into executive session to 
discuss, among others, AD ALB Complaint 2016-5. Attorney Gallagher appeared during 
executive session with Mr. Horton and made a presentation with the Board’s permission. This 
presentation addressed each issue that was raised in the April 1, 2016, Complaint against Mr. 
Horton (Complaint 2016-5). Mr. Horton also responded in detail to the allegations in the 
complaint and responded to questions from Members of the Board. Attorney Gallagher then 
summarized the law and argued that the Board must find that Mr. Horton complied with the 
Board’s enabling act and the Board’s regulations, 212 CMR 2.00 et seq. The Board voted 3-1 to 
dismiss the complaint filed against Mr. Horton, with Board Member Starbard voting against and 
Board Member Johnson recusing himself.
DISCUSSION
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s June 20, 2018, executive session 
discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3).
Executive Session Purpose 1 allows a public body to convene in executive session to 
“discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, §
21(a)(1). When a public body enters executive session under Purpose 1, the individual to be 
discussed in the executive session must be afforded certain rights. Ich The individual must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session.
Id. The individual also has the right (1) to request that the session be open; (2) to be present 
during the meeting; (3) to speak on his or her own behalf; (4) to have counsel or a representative 
present and attending for the purpose of advising the individual but not for the purpose of active
1 Complaint 2016-5 was one of two complaints filed with the Board on April 1, 2016. The Board’s 
handling of the other ADALB complaint also led to an Open Meeting Law complaint, which this office 
resolved in a determination issued on May 5, 2017. See OML 2017-72.
2

===PAGE 3===
participation in the session; and (5) to make an independent transcript of the meeting at the 
individual’s expense. Id
Here, the Board properly entered into executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss Mr. 
Cloutier’s complaint against Mr. Horton, which involved a dispute between Mr. Cloutier and Mr. 
Horton (as a licensed motor vehicle damage appraiser for an insurance company) over damage to 
a motor vehicle repaired in Mr. Cloutier’s auto body shop. Mr. Cloutier alleges that neither 
Attorney Gallagher nor Mr. Horton should have been afforded the opportunity to actively 
participate in the executive session, and he attributes this participation to the dismissal of his 
complaint. Mr. Cloutier further argues that the Board “essentially held an adjudicatory 
proceeding in [his] absence...” and asserts that he also should have been afforded the 
opportunity to speak before the Board in the presence of counsel. We disagree. Here, Mr. 
Cloutier was the complainant, and Mr. Horton was the individual against whom an AD ALB 
complaint had been brought. Therefore, Mr. Horton, as the subject of the complaint to be 
discussed, was properly afforded the rights set forth in the General Laws chapter 30A, section 
21 (a)( 1 )(i-iv), but Mr. Cloutier, as the complainant, was not required to be afforded those same 
rights.
Furthermore, although the Open Meeting Law only required the Board to allow Mr. 
Horton’s attorney to attend the executive session for the purpose of advising Mr. Horton, nothing 
in the Open Meeting Law prohibits the Board from opting to allow greater participation than 
what the law requires. Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
We note that Mr. Cloutier asserts that the Board violated its own rules and procedures in 
the manner in which it heard and resolved his complaint in executive session. Whether the 
Board violated its own rules is outside the scope of our review, which is limited to enforcement 
of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it allowed Attorney Gallagher and Mr. Horton to participate in the Board’s executive 
session on June 20, 2018.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
3

===PAGE 4===
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis
Special Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Gary Cloutier
Massachusetts Auto Damage Appraiser Licensing Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
