===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
January 15, 2015 
OML 2015-5 
David A. Wojcik, Esq. 
Christopher, Hays, Wojcik, & Mavricos, LLP 
446 Main St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Wojcik: 
This office received a complaint from Anne and Robert Krasnecky dated December 6, 
2014, alleging that the Ware Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board's April 9, 2014 
meeting do not state that "Robert Kraznecky asked Nichole Bradway 'does she remember 
making the motion he can not call unless it is an emergency (Board of Health).' Nichole 
Broadway answered yes to that motion." The complaint was filed with the Board on November 
25, 2014. The Board responded by letter dated December 1, 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the 
minutes of the Board's April 9, 2014 meeting, a transcript of that meeting provided by the 
Krasneckys, and an audio recording of the meeting provided by the Krasneckys.1 Finally, we 
spoke with Anne and Robert Krasnecky separately by telephone on December 30, 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Krasneckys have long-standing concerns about their 
neighbors' alleged burning activities. The Krasneckys discussed their concerns with the Board 
The the quality of the recording was such that the audio was mostly unintelligible. 
===PAGE 2===
during its meeting on February 6, 2014. Following that meeting, the Krasneckys filed an Open 
Meeting Law complaint challenging the accuracy of the Board's February 6, 2014 minutes. Our 
office resolved that complaint in OML 2014-101, finding that the Board's minutes were 
sufficiently accurate. 
At the Board's April 9 meeting, the Krasneckys confronted the Board to confirm their 
understanding of the phrasing of a motion made during the Board's February 6, 2014 meeting. 
We believe the Krasneckys' transcript to be a faithful record of the April 9, 2014 meeting. The 
relevant portion of the transcript reads as follows: 
Robert Krasnecky to Board member Nichol Bradway: "A motion was made by Nichole 
Bradway that 'he can not call unless it is an emergency (Board of Health)?'" 
Nichole Bradway: "Yes." 
Robert Kransecky: "Do you remember making that statement?" 
Nichole Bradway: "Yes." 
The minutes of the Board's April 9, 2014 meeting include a detailed paragraph reflecting 
the entire discussion. The minutes record the above exchange as, "[Mr. Krasnecky] also 
repeatedly questions Nichole [Bradway] whether her motion at meeting of 2/5/2014 was that he 
could call the Board of Health office only if an emergency with Nichole answering yes." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A summary does not need to be a transcript of 
every word spoken at a meeting, but must contain enough detail so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could review the minutes and understand what the Committee 
discussed. See OML 2013-105; OML 2012-41. Our office will generally only review minutes 
for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2012-106; OML 2011-55. 
By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. OML 2013-90. 
Here, we are satisfied that the minutes contain a summary that accurately reflects the 
Board's discussion and the exchange that took place with the Krasneckys. The Krasneckys 
contend that the minutes are inaccurate because they do not use the exact wording used by Mr. 
Krasnecky in describing Ms. Bradway's motion. Specifically, the dispute turns on whether Mr. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
vvvvvv.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Krasnecky asked Ms. Bradway if her motion was that Mr. Krasnecky could "call the Board of 
Health office only if there is an emergency," or if her motion had been "he can not call unless 
there is an emergency" (emphasis added). This office finds no logical difference between these 
two statements. The minutes substantially comply with the Open Meeting Law's accuracy 
requirement, and appropriately reflect the Board's discussion with the Krasneckys.3 We 
therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact this office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ware Board of Health 
Anne and Robert Krasnecky 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 The only error we note with the minutes is that they identify the February 6, 2014 meeting as a February 5, 2014 
meeting, 
3 