===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 15, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 44 
 
 
Peter F. Winters 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Law Department 
15 Summer Street 
Taunton, MA 02780 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Winters:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from Kathryn Cunningham on October 20, 2021, 
alleging that the Taunton Elections Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
about September 16, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated October 5.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it i) changed 
the time of its September 14 meeting without notifying the complainant; and ii) limited or did not 
allow public participation during meetings held on August 24 and September 14.2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review.  We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Commission meetings held on 
August 24 and September 14.     
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Commission “voted to Eliminate ‘Early Voting in Person’ using” false data and 
information.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
As such, we decline to review this particular matter.  See OML Declination 7-23-18 (Norwell Board of Selectmen); 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML Declination 5-21-12 
(Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).  We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the 
Commission could be a violation of some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.   
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission held a meeting on August 24 at 5:00 P.M.  
The complainant was present at this meeting and asked several questions pertaining to “at large” 
elected officials, the availability of meeting minutes, and general compliance with the Americans 
with Disabilities Act for polling locations.  The Commission then discussed early voting by mail 
and in person for the current year.  Election Director Pamela Menconi provided data on the costs 
associated with early voting, past trends specific to Taunton voters, and the results of a survey 
conducted by surrounding municipalities.  The Commission unanimously voted “to not 
recommend or request In Person early Voting for this municipal cycle.”  The Commission then 
discussed the security of the town vault and the need for secure storage of ballots. 
  
On Thursday, September 9 at 2:06 P.M., the Commission posted notice for a meeting to 
be held on Tuesday, September 14 at 3:00 P.M.  The notice listed several topics, including the 
approval of two sets of meeting minutes, “Community Input,” and “Old Business 1) Vault.”   
   
The September 14 meeting was held as planned and the Commission met for 
approximately ten minutes.  During the meeting, the Commission tabled the acceptance of the 
two sets of meeting minutes and then discussed funding for a separate vault for the Election 
Department and the storage of current ballots for the upcoming election.  There was no input 
from the community.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.     
 
The complainant alleges that the Board failed to notify her “of the time change” for the 
September 14 meeting.  We acknowledge that, prior to September 14, the Commission typically 
held its meetings at 5:00 P.M.  Since September 14, the Commission has scheduled its meetings 
for 3:00 P.M.  Here, the Commission duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on September 14 
at 3:00 P.M.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice 
of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals.  See OML 2019-17; OML 2013-41.3  
Because the Commission posted notice of the September 14 meeting at least 48 hours prior to 
that meeting and included the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as the topics 
reasonably anticipated by the chair, we find the Board complied with the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law and find no violation.  See OML 2022-36; OML 2021-89. 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint also alleges that the Commission limited public input to three minutes 
during the August 24 meeting and did not allow individuals to speak during the September 14 
meeting.  The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit 
public comment during a meeting.  See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  Because 
it is within the Chair’s discretion to decide who may speak at a meeting and for how long, he did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by limiting the complainant to three minutes or restricting the 
complainant from speaking during either the August 24 or September 14 meetings.  We do, 
however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and 
circumstances permit.  See OML 2019-120; OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kathryn Cunningham – By email only:  
Taunton Elections Commission c/o Election Director Pamela Menconi – By email only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
