===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 24, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 80 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esquire 
KP Law 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cory Bombredi on May 13, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Barre DPW Commission (“the Commission”) and its Administrative Assistant Search 
Committee (“the Search Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Commission and the Search Committee on or about 
April 10, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the 
Commission and the Search Committee by letter dated May 12.  The complaint alleges that the 
Commission and the Search Committee violated the Open Meeting Law (1) when the Search 
Committee narrowed the selection of candidates during executive session to only one finalist for 
the position of DPW administrative assistant; and (2) when the Search Committee failed to create 
minutes of executive sessions.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Search Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it met in executive session and selected a single final candidate for the position of 
DPW administrative assistant.  We find this violation intentional.  We find that the Search 
Committee and Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.   
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the response of 
the Commission and the Search Committee, the request for further review and additional 
documents provided by the complainant.  We also reviewed the notice of the meeting the Search 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 To the extent that the complainant alleges conflict of interest or ethical violations in the hiring of the administrative 
assistant, who is a cousin of DPW Superintendent Timothy Batchelor, we decline to review that allegation, as it falls 
outside the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee held on March 25, and the notices and minutes of meetings the Search Committee 
held on April 1, April 3 and April 7.  Finally, we viewed recordings of meetings the Commission 
held on March 103 and April 9.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 20, the Commission voted to establish the Search 
Committee to hire a Department of Public Works (“DPW”) administrative assistant.  The Search 
Committee was a subcommittee of the Commission; four of the nine members of the 
Commission were appointed to the Search Committee.
5  The Search Committee met on March 
25, April 1, April 3, and April 7.  Based on minutes of those meetings, it appears that Town 
Administrator Tammy Martin also was a member of the Search Committee.  The sole topic of 
discussion listed on the notice of each of the Search Committee meetings was: 
 
Executive Session 
MGL 30A § 21(A) - #8 To consider or interview applicants for employment by a 
preliminary screening committee, if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants. This shall not apply to any meeting 
regarding applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening. 
 
At least some of these notices also included the following statement: “NOTE: This event 
is not considered a meeting subject to the Open Meeting laws.”   
 
At its April 1 meeting, the Search Committee entered executive session and interviewed 
three candidates for the position of administrative assistant.  Town Administrator Martin 
suggested that after completion of its work, the Search Committee should recommend two 
candidates to the Commission for final interviews.  However, the remaining members of the 
Search Committee instead decided that the Search Committee should forward a single candidate 
to the Commission.  At its April 7 meeting, the Search Committee interviewed a fourth candidate 
and then discussed the four candidates they had interviewed.  Maureen Marshall moved to offer 
the position to Kelly Valeri.  Member Martin seconded.  Members Marshall and Martin voted to 
“offer the position of the DPW Administrative Assistant position to Kelly Valeri.” advancing 
Ms. Valeri to the Commission; Tim Batchelor abstained.  Minutes of the April 7 meeting note 
that Tim Batchelor “will contact Kelly Valeri to extend the offer.  If she accepts, a DPW 
Commission meeting will be scheduled to appoint her to the position.” 
 
At the Commission’s meeting on April 9, the Search Committee reported back in open 
session with its recommendation that Kelly Valeri be hired for the position of DPW 
administrative assistant.  The Search Committee reviewed approximately 60 applications; 
approximately a quarter of the applicants had at least some of the qualifications sought by the 
Commission.  During the course of its work, the Search Committee learned that Ms. Valeri is a 
 
3 We accessed the recording at https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xO8g88wrgVKpZdC8uriRovreUB6RZElx/view . 
4 We accessed the recording at https://drive.google.com/file/d/11fAIGAKHfXpeBFvKPYf-U8PkxS22g7SL/view.  
The relevant discussion begins at approximately 6:40. 
5 See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (establishing that “a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created to 
advise or make recommendations to a public body”). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cousin of DPW Superintendent Timothy Batchelor.  Although Superintendent Batchelor was not 
close to Ms. Valeri, the Town made inquiries to ensure that the hiring would not violate rules of 
ethics.  Following a brief discussion, the Committee voted at its April 9 meeting to hire Ms. 
Valeri as DPW administrative assistant.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Search Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it met in executive 
session and selected a single finalist for the position of DPW administrative 
assistant.  
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated 
in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, the chair has 
announced the purpose for the executive session, a majority of members of the body have voted 
to go into executive session, the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
6  Among 
the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which permits a preliminary screening 
committee “[t]o consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment . . . if the chair 
declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; 
provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a 
preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior 
preliminary screening.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8).  The law defines “Preliminary Screening” as 
“the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public 
body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for 
further consideration or interview.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
The preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as consideration of 
wri
tten applications or resumes, selection of some candidates for further consideration, and 
interviews for the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists to be 
considered by the full body in open session.  See Gerstein v. Superintendent Search Screening 
Comm., 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Comm. v. Bd. of Selectmen of the Town of 
Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006).  Nothing in the statute suggests that 
“preliminary screening” is limited to a one-time only review of an applicant’s credentials.  
However, once an applicant has passed a preliminary screening and been referred to the full body 
as a finalist, all further consideration of the applicant must occur in open session.  See Gerstein, 
at 471; OML 2012-11. 
 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The Open Meeting Law allows a preliminary screening committee to convene in 
executive session only for the purpose of selecting multiple finalists to forward to the parent 
body, not to make the ultimate selection, and therefore a screening committee meeting in 
executive session must identify more than one finalist for further consideration.  See OML 2024-
30; OML 2020-147; OML 2018-142.  The Search Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it selected a single candidate for the position of DPW administrative assistant.  Minutes of 
the Search Committee’s April 7 meeting, reflecting that Tim Batchelder was to offer the position 
to Kelly Valeri before forwarding her name to the full Commission reflect that, in the Search 
Committee’s view, the Commission’s role was simply to rubber stamp the Search Committee’s 
selection.  The Commission’s consideration and acceptance of the single recommended 
candidate did not violate the Open Meeting Law as those actions occurred in open session.  See 
OML 2018-142 (Search committee that narrowed pool of applicants to single recommended 
candidate violated Open Meeting Law but parent public body receiving and considering 
recommendation did not).  Nonetheless, the Commission’s actions clearly stemmed from the 
Search Committee’s Open Meeting Law violations. 
     
 While not explicitly conceding fault, the Search Committee maintains that any violation 
was cured by release of executive session minutes.  We find otherwise.  The requirement that a 
screening committee meeting in executive session recommend multiple finalists serves an 
important function for public transparency.  Having only recommended one candidate, the 
Search Committee made a “final hiring decision[] behind closed doors, subject only to an up or 
down vote” by the Commission.  See OML 2024-30; OML 2018-142; OML 2016-105.  
Presented with only one candidate, the Commission’s vote to hire Kelly Valeri as DPW 
administrative assistant stemmed from the Search Committee’s improper selection of a single 
finalist in executive session.  The release of minutes may retroactively shed light on how the 
screening was conducted but it does not broaden the pool of candidates openly considered by the 
Commission at its open meeting on April 9.  Therefore, we find that release of minutes did not 
cure the Search Committee’s violation. 
 
II. The vote in executive session to offer the position to Kelly Valeri was an 
intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines an intentional violation as “[a]n act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.”  
Evidence of an intentional violation includes a public body acting with “deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirements.”  940 CMR 29.02.  As explained below, in light of circumstances 
surrounding the hiring of the DPW superintendent several months prior to the hiring of Ms. 
Valeri, we find that the Search Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s 
requirements when it selected a single finalist for the administrative assistant position in 
executive session.7   
 
During its November 21, 2024, meeting, the Commission convened in executive session 
under Purpose 8 and voted to hire Tim Batchelor as DPW Superintendent.  On February 4, 2025, 
Cory Bombredi filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the Commission, alleging that its 
 
7 The Search Committee even went beyond selecting Ms. Valeri as the single finalist in executive session; it voted to 
offer her the position. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
selection of Tim Batchelor in executive session violated the Open Meeting Law.8   On March 10, 
the Commission reviewed the minutes of its executive session of November 21, 2024.  The 
Commission member who introduced the minutes for approval noted that the executive session 
was conducted to interview candidates for the position of DPW Superintendent, stating that “I do 
believe this should have been conducted in open meeting, based on what I understand now.”  
This acknowledgment confirms that as of March 10, the Commission was aware, at least, that 
Purpose 8 includes detailed requirements regarding screening of candidates for employment in 
executive session, and that it had acted contrary to the Open Meeting Law when it conducted the 
entire hiring process in executive session.  On March 20, ten days after acknowledging that the 
selection of the DPW Superintendent should not have transpired entirely in executive session, the 
Commission appointed several of its members to the Search Committee to hire an administrative 
assistant.  The Search Committee then committed a very similar, if not identical, error, reducing 
the pool of candidates to a single finalist in executive session.  Although the single finalist for 
administrative assistant was discussed in open session, whereas the DPW Superintendent was 
selected entirely in executive session, that distinction does not foreclose a finding that the 
violation here was intentional.  The information before us establishes that as of March 10, the 
Commission (and future members of the Search Committee) were aware that they had selected 
the DPW Superintendent improperly in executive session, without complying with the 
requirements of Purpose 8.  Equipped with this knowledge, it was incumbent upon the Search 
Committee to familiarize itself with the procedural requirements of Purpose 8.
9  In failing to do 
so, it acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements, making the violation intentional.  
See, e.g., OML 2020-15 (“Even if the Board members did not take this action with the specific 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law, at the very least they acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirements.”). 
 
Upon finding a violation of the Open Meeting Law, the attorney general may issue an 
order to nullify any action taken at the meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, §23(c)(3).  The complainant asks 
that we nullify the April 9 vote to hire Kelly Valeri for the position of administrative assistant.  A 
hiring decision made by a public body without open consideration of more than one candidate is 
a clear and substantial violation that strikes at the heart of the Open Meeting Law.  Nullification 
would not be disproportionate to the seriousness of the violation here.  Nonetheless, we decline 
to nullify the vote, as the greatest hardship from such a remedy likely would be visited on Ms. 
Valeri, who had no role in the violation but would suffer uncertainty relative to her employment.   
 
  
 
8 We declined review of that complaint.  See Declination Barre DPW Commission (6-24-2025). 
9 A search of Open Meeting Law educational materials, available at the Attorney General’s website, would have 
revealed, among other resources, a checklist regarding preliminary screening committees.  See 
https://www.mass.gov/doc/11062024-oml-preliminary-screening-committees-checklist/download.  That checklist 
includes the following information: 
 ☐ Once there are finalists—me aning at least two individuals to proceed onto the next level of consideration—any 
further consideration, review, or interviewing by the screening committee or the parent public body must take place 
in open session. See OML 2024- 30; OML 2021-70; OML 2016-105.  
☐ The screening committee may not narrow the pool of candidates to a single finalist in executive session.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
III. Meeting notices should not have included language stating that the executive 
sessions were not considered meetings subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Some of the notices of the Search Committee meetings indicated that “[t]his event is not 
considered a meeting subject to the Open Meeting laws.”  Although the complainant does not 
allege that this language constitutes a distinct violation, we share his concern about this 
misstatement of the law.  The Search Committee is a public body and is subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.  We remind the Search Committee and the Commission that prior to convening in 
executive session, a public body must first convene in an open session that the public may attend 
in order to witness the required procedural steps, including the announcement of the purpose for 
the executive session and the vote to convene in executive session, a vote which could fail.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(b).  Based on the language at the top of the meeting notice, we are concerned that 
either the Search Committee did not convene in open session to conduct the required procedural 
steps, or that the public could have been deterred from attending the open session prior to the 
executive session because the notice suggested that there would be no open session. 
 
IV. The Search Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the creation of 
executive session minutes that are insufficiently detailed. 
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The complainant alleges that the Search Committee 
failed to create executive session minutes.  The allegation is well founded, in light of language 
on the notices that meetings of the Search Committee were “not considered … meeting[s] subject 
to the Open Meeting laws.”  Of course, executive sessions are subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
The Open Meeting Law has detailed statutory provisions relating to the propriety, notice and 
conduct of executive sessions.  See, e.g., G.L. 30A, § 21.  The Search Committee cited to those 
provisions in the notices of its meetings.  Whether the Search Committee believed at one point 
that its meetings were not subject to the Open Meeting Law, it ultimately did create minutes of 
those meetings.  However, we find that those minutes are not sufficiently detailed.   
 
Minutes must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or 
abse
nt, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 
2023-56; OML 2016-105.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2023-56; OML 
2023-35; OML 2021-140.  A transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.   
 
In response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Search Committee released minutes 
of it
s executive sessions.  Upon review, we find that the minutes do not meet the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law.  When candidates are interviewed by a public body, minutes must 
include a summary of those interviews.  See OML 2024-25; OML 2023-15; OML 2011-34.  The 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
minutes of the Search Committee’s executive sessions do not summarize the interviews or the 
discussion that followed and therefore fail to meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
Therefore, they are not sufficiently detailed. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Search Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it selected a single finalist for the position of DPW administrative assistant in 
executive session, and that the violation was intentional.  We also find that the Search 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it created minutes that were not sufficiently 
detailed. 
 
We order immediate and future compliance with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law.  We order the Search Committee to amend and approve minutes of its executive sessions of 
April 1, April 3 and April 7, consistent with the guidance provided above, and to certify to this 
office that it has done so within 40 days from the date of this letter.
10  
 
Because we find an intentional violation, as explained above, we refer this matter for a 
hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and recommend that the Search Committee be assessed a 
fine of $500 pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) (“Upon the finding of a violation, the attorney 
general may issue an order to . . . impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than 
$1,000 for each intentional violation”).  We invite the Search Committee, or the Commission on 
its behalf, to contact this office to discuss the hearing process or a resolution of this matter.  
 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission, the Search Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government   
 
cc: Cory Bombredi (via email: ) 
 Hayley A. Reifeiss, Esq. KP Law (via email: hreifeiss@k -plaw.com) 
Barre Town Clerk (via email: clerk@townofbarre.com ) 
 Barre Town Administrator, Tammy Martin (via email: townadmin@townofbarre.com) 
 
10 If the Search Committee has disbanded, the Commission may approve the minutes.  See  OML 2024-168; OML 
2016 -96; OML 2012-111. 
 

===PAGE 8===
8 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 