===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
September 15, 2017 
OML 2017-147 
Joseph Callanan 
Town Solicitor 
Town of Weymouth 
75 Middle Street 
Weymouth, MA 02189 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
This office received a complaint from Elizabeth Foster-Nolan on August 2 alleging that 
the Weymouth School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 25, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 23, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. The complaint alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently detailed 
notice for its April 27 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
a meeting notice that provided insufficient detail. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the original and revised notices of, and 
open session minutes from the Committee's April 27 meeting, as well as the notice of and open 
session minutes from the Committee's May 11 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On April 25, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to 
be held on April 27. The notice listed nine topics, including New Business under which was 
listed "Job Descriptions (Action Requested)." Around 11:30 A.M. on April 27, the Committee 
posted a revised notice. The only revision to the notice was the inclusion of "Curriculum 
Directors, Assistant Curriculum Directors" after the "Job Descriptions" topic under New 
Business. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The April 27 meeting was held as planned. The Committee discussed the need for, and 
salary of, Curriculum and Assistant Curriculum Directors, as well as whether the positions would 
be non-union. One Committee member raised her concern that the job descriptions were not 
specifically listed on the notice. Weymouth School Superintendent Jennifer Curtis-Whipple 
stated that "the job descriptions have been on the blog all week for the committee." Committee 
Chair Lisa Belmarsh suggested that the meeting notice was sufficient because the "job 
descriptions were available for the committee prior to today," and that the Committee had "been 
talking about these positions throughout the budget process." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics 
shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 
The complaint alleges that the "Job Descriptions" topic on the April 27 meeting notice 
lacked sufficient detail. The Committee suggests that the exclusion of the two positions. 
Curriculum Directors and Assistant Curriculum Directors, in the Job Descriptions topic was a 
clerical error. While we commend the Committee for amending the agenda and including the 
two positions, we find that the topic as listed on the original notice should have included the two 
specific positions that the Committee anticipated discussing during its April 27 meeting. See 
OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11. Even though the revised notice identified the "Curriculum 
Directors, Assistant Curriculum Directors," the Committee knew on April 25, when the notice 
was originally posted, that it would be discussing those specific positions during the meeting. 
Both the School Superintendent and Committee Chair stated that the job descriptions had been 
known and available to the Committee for at least a week. Therefore, the Committee's failure to 
include reference to the two specific job descriptions in its original notice violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by providing insufficient detail in a meeting notice. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Elizabeth Foster-Nolan 
Weymouth School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 