===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.inass.gov/ago 
September 11, 2015 
OML 2015-132 
Alan McClennen, Chair 
Orleans Board of Selectmen 
19 School Road 
Orleans, MA 02653 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair McClennen: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated June 17, alleging that the 
Orleans Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 26, and the Board responded by 
letter dated June 10. In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board provided insufficient 
information in a meeting notice regarding an anticipated executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and executive 
session minutes of a Board meeting held on March 26. Finally, we spoke with the Town 
Administrator by telephone on August 10. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on March 26. The notice for this 
meeting lists, in part, the following anticipated executive session: "Meet with Town Counsel in 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation." During the March 26 meeting, 
the Board entered executive session as planned. The minutes of this executive session have not 
been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. We note, however, that 
the discussion that took place during this executive session concerned whether to appeal an 
administrative decision by the Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP"). At the 
conclusion of the executive session, the Board returned to open session. At this time. Town 
Counsel announced that the Board had authorized him to file an appeal in the DEP matter. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
Public bodies must identify in the notice for a meeting the specific executive session 
purpose they intend to invoke to justify an executive session, and must provide as much detail as 
possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion without 
compromising the confidentiality of the executive session. See OML 2011-9.2 Thus, with 
respect to Purpose 3, we have said that unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the executive 
session, public bodies should state in their notice the name of the litigation matter that will be 
discussed. See OML 2014-145; OML 2013-97. While we generally defer to public bodies' 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an 
executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if 
challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
Here, the executive session was called to discuss an appeal of the DEP decision. The 
meeting notice stated only that the Board would "discuss strategy with respect to litigation" in 
executive session on that date. The Board's response states that the Board believed disclosing 
the name of the litigation matter prior to the executive session would have compromised the 
Board's position. However, the Board has not identified a specific harm that would have 
occurred if this information had been known. While we have stated in the past that a public body 
need not list the name of a litigation matter when the body is considering bringing suit against 
another party, see OML 2015-14, this case presents a different situation. The DEP was aware 
that the Board had a right to appeal its decision within a specific time period. The Board's 
litigating position would therefore not have been harmed if the DEP were aware that the Board 
was exercising this right. Accordingly, we find that the Board should have listed the name of the 
litigation matter on the meeting notice. We note that the Board has pledged to provide such 
information on future meeting notices, where appropriate. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the Board did 
not follow proper procedure in convening the March 26 executive session, the Board may not 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
rely on the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold the minutes of that 
executive session. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f). However, the attorney-client privilege or one or 
more exemptions under the Public Records Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or 
a portion thereof, from disclosure. See OML 2015-10. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 