===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 66  
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Bruce Assad, Esq. 
Law Office of Bruce A. Assad 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on March 11, 2022,
1 alleging that 
Mayor Paul Coogan, Chair of the Fall River School Committee (the “Committee”), violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on January 28, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
February 16.  The complaint alleges that Mayor Coogan failed to comply with the certification 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law when he was sworn in to a second term as Mayor of Fall 
River on January 3, thus beginning a second term as Chair of the Committee, and did not sign his 
Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials until January 28.       
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and 
the request for further review.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting
law and its application pursuant to section 19.... The certification shall be evidence that the
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and
the consequences of violating it." G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations
specify that public body members "must sign a new certification upon reelection or
reappointment to the public body." 940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5).
Here, Mayor Coogan completed the Open Meeting Law certification 25 days after being
sworn into a second term of office, slightly beyond the two-week time period set forth in the Law
for completing the certification. We note that the certification had already been completed
before this complaint was filed, and the complaint contains no allegations that Mayor Coogan
violated the Open Meeting Law in the interim due to a lack of awareness of the requirements of
the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law's
certification requirement, and also advise Mr. Dias that filing an Open Meeting Law complaint in
this instance, when the certification had already been completed and there is no suggestion that
the brief delay contributed to diminished transparency in government, unnecessarily consumed
the Committee's and our office's resources without meaningfully advancing the transparency
goals of the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Carie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Collin Dias (via e-mail:
Mayor Paul Coogan, Chair (via email:
Fall River School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2