===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www, mass.gov/ago 
February 28, 2018 
OML 2018-25 
E. Renee LeFevre, General Counsel 
Boston Planning & Development Agency 
1 City Hall Square 
Boston, MA 02201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney LeFevre: 
This office received a complaint from Lisa Thompson and Ruth Rickenbacker, dated July 
7, 2017, alleging that the Boston Planning & Development Agency Board of Directors (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on March 31, 2017, and the Board responded by letter dated May 26, 2017.1 
The complainants allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to properly 
post a meeting notice; (ii) holding a meeting in a venue that could not accommodate interested 
members of the public; (iii) permitting recording of a meeting without first making the required 
announcement; (iv) improperly removing members of the public from the meeting room and 
denying others access to the meeting room; and (v) "quietly and quickly" taking a vote during a 
meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to many of the 
allegations in the complaint. However, we find that the Board improperly denied members of 
the public access to the meeting room during its March 2, 2017 meeting. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a video of the March 2, 2017 meeting 
and additional videos sent to us by the complainants.2 We spoke with the complainants by 
telephone on November 28, 2017, and we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on 
1 Within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the complaint was filed 
with the Board on March 31, 2017, and the Board responded by letter dated May 26, 2017. We take this opportunity 
to remind the Commission of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
2 The Board posts videos of many meetings online. The video of the March 2 meeting is available here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxJQ_3ZEc3w&feature=youtu.be. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
December 1, 2017 and January 5, 2018. We also reviewed a supplementary e-mail sent to us by 
the Board's legal counsel on December 8, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On October 28, 2016, the Boston City Clerk notified our 
office by letter that the city was adopting its municipal website as its official notice posting 
location effective December 1, 2016, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).3 
On February 15, 2017, the Board's administrative assistant, anticipating a large crowd 
and seeking a bigger meeting room, contacted the Boston City Council to inquire whether the 
City Council chambers were available for use by the Board on March 2, 2017 and learned that 
they were not. On or around this date, Board staff explored the option of holding the March 2, 
2017 meeting in a city-owned building located on Court Street. However, staff determined that 
the available space in the Court Street location was comparable in size to the Board's regular 
meeting room in Boston City Hall. On February 28, 2017, the Board posted notice of a meeting 
to be held on March 2, 2017 in the Board's regular meeting room, which accommodates 
approximately 80 people. In anticipation of large crowds attending the March 2, 2017 meeting, 
Board staff placed a television monitor in the hallway adjacent to the meeting room. Further, the 
Board opened an auxiliary room with another monitor so additional members of the public could 
watch the meeting there. 
The Board held its March 2, 2017 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the Board 
considered the adoption of a development plan known as "JP/Rox," which concerned the 
Jamaica Plain and Roxbury neighborhoods of Boston. This was a contentious topic, and 
members of a community group opposing the development plan sought to attend the meeting. 
Many members of the community group were admitted to the meeting room, yet, due to the 
limited size of the room, others remained outside in the hall. City Hall staff moved the chairs in 
the meeting room forward so that there would be more room to stand in the back of the room, 
bringing the capacity to around 100 people. Security personnel were stationed at the meeting 
room door prohibiting additional members of the public from entering the meeting room. These 
security personnel were composed of Boston Police Department officers, as well as members of 
the Municipal Protective Services, a part of the City of Boston's property management team. 
At the beginning of the meeting. Board Chair Timothy Burke stated that the meeting was 
being recorded and broadcast and he asked that anyone recording the meeting identify 
themselves to the Board. Various people in the room did so by raising their hands. As the 
meeting progressed into discussion of the merits of the JP/Rox project, various members of the 
public in the meeting room began to loudly boo and jeer. At several points, the chair stopped the 
meeting to admonish the members of the public. Where members of the audience continued to 
disrupt the meeting, the chair instructed security personnel to remove those individuals from the 
meeting room. When individuals were removed from the meeting room by security personnel, 
no additional members of the public were admitted from those waiting outside; instead, the 
chairs in the room remained empty. At one point, the crowd in the meeting room began 
chanting, in reference to the citizens waiting outside, "LET THEM IN." The security personnel 
in the meeting room had handheld video cameras, which they used to record the individuals 
3 Revised Open Meeting Law regulations took effect on October 6, 2017. See 940 CMR 29.00-29.11. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
present in the meeting room. Based on portions of these videos, it appears that, after individuals 
were removed from the meeting room, approximately a dozen seats remained unfilled as the 
meeting continued. The security personnel stood throughout the meeting room, sometimes in 
between rows of seats amidst the audience. Ultimately, as the situation in the meeting room 
remained heated, the Board ended further discussion and voted to adopt the JP/Rox plan. 
DISCUSSION 
I. Because Boston Has Adopted its Municipal Website for Notice Posting. We Find 
No Error in the Posting of the March 2. 2017 Meeting Notice. 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). While the default location for municipal meeting notices is a bulletin board located in or 
on the building where the clerk's office is located, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c), a municipality may 
adopt a municipal website for notice posting purposes. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
The complaint alleges that City Hall was closed for some period of time during the 
workday on March 1, 2017, and the notice of the March 2, 2017 meeting was therefore 
inaccessible to members of the public during the 48-hour window prior to the March 2, 2017 
meeting. In its response, the Board denies that City Hall was, in fact, closed to the public for any 
portion of time during the day on March 1, 2017. It is not necessary for us to resolve that factual 
issue, because, in any event, the City of Boston had adopted the municipal website as an 
alternative notice posting location as of December 1, 2016, and the Board therefore successfully 
satisfied its notice posting obligations when the notice was published to that website. As such, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
II. The Meeting Room Used on March 2, 2017 Satisfied the Requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well 
as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-
38.4 Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for large crowds. See OML 2016-54; 
OML 2012-66. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding the 
March 2, 2017 meeting in a room too small to accommodate anticipated crowds. We note that 
the Board contacted the City Council to inquire whether the City Council chambers were 
available during the meeting time, and the Board also investigated the possibility of using the 
building on Court Street. Because the Board's regular meeting room was the largest space 
available at the time, the Board acted appropriately by holding its meeting there. Further, we 
note that the Board supplied a monitor in the hallway and an additional monitor in the auxiliary 
room. We have stated in the past that these practices satisfy a body's obligation to make 
proceedings accessible to members of the public. See OML 2016-111. We find that the Board's 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/op enmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
efforts satisfied its obligations under the Open Meeting Law and we find no violation with 
respect to this allegation. 
III. The Chair Notified Those Present That the Meeting was Being Recorded, 
Satisfying the Board's Obligation. 
After notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio 
recording of an open session meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The chair must then inform 
attendees of any recordings of which he or she is aware. See OML 2014-8. 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly allowed the security personnel to record 
the audience. At the beginning of the meeting, the chair notified those present that the meeting 
was being recorded and broadcast, and he asked anyone else filming to identify themselves. It is 
unclear whether the security personnel using handheld camera identified themselves at this time, 
but there is no doubt that those present were aware that the meeting was being recorded. 
Because the Board made this clear at the outset, we conclude that the Board complied with the 
Open Meeting Law. The complaint argues that recording by police officers is inherently 
intimidating and that members of the audience felt threatened by the security personnel doing so 
during the meeting at issue. The Open Meeting Law specifically provides that meetings may be 
recorded, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f), and there is no basis in the Open Meeting Law for curtailing 
the right to record based on the identity of the person seeking to record. 
IV. The Board Chair was Authorized to Order Disruptive Members of the Public 
Removed from the Meeting; However, the Board Violated the Open Meeting Law 
by Failing to Admit Members of the Public to Fill Vacant Seats in the Meeting 
Room. 
All meetings of public bodies must be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(a). The Open Meeting Law states that "[n]o person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting 
of a public body. If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the 
proceedings, the chair may order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does 
not withdraw, the chair may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair 
to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. See OML 2014-23. 
Here, the complaint questions several aspects of how the Board handled the disruptive 
audience members. As an initial point, we note that the law specifically provides that, once a 
warning is given, a chair may order a disruptiye person removed from a meeting room. 
However, the complainants claim that the Board removed people of color more readily than 
white audience members, and that the Board improperly failed to admit people waiting outside 
the meeting room once others were removed. 
We reviewed the complaint's allegations of racial discrimination in consultation with the 
Civil Rights Division of our office. This review consisted largely of reviewing the videos 
provided by the complainants depicting conduct of police officers inside the meeting room. 
Certain actions in the videos raise concerns—in particular, that police officers at certain points 
attempt to remove advocates who could not be seen on the video to be causing any disturbance. 
Where the persons targeted for removal here appear to be racial or ethnic minorities, we are 
4 
===PAGE 5===
concerned as to whether they were being treated differently than white members of the public 
who were in attendance. However, without video footage of the entire meeting, and specifically 
all the instances where police asked attendants to leave, we cannot determine whether the actions 
taken were discriminatory. In any event, allegations of racial bias would not, in and of 
themselves, violate the Open Meeting Law.5 
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-92. 
Here, as the security personnel removed members of the public from the meeting room, the 
newly empty seats remained vacant. Based on the loud chants of "LET THEM IN," this fact 
could not have escaped the notice of the Board members. The Board's legal counsel stated to 
our office that the decision to stop admitting members of the public from the hallway was made 
by the security personnel, and that the security personnel had, in essence, "taken over" the issue 
of crowd control. Under the Open Meeting Law, however, it is a public body's responsibility to 
ensure that all meetings are open and accessible to members of the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
We find that the Board was responsible for ensuring that members of the public seeking to attend 
the meeting were able to do so when chairs opened up in the meeting room. Because the Board 
was plainly aware that members of the public sought to enter the meeting room, its failure to 
admit them violated the Open Meeting Law.6 
V. The Board Did Not "Quickly and Quietly" Vote to Adopt the JP/Rox Plan. 
The final allegation in the complaint is that, after ending discussion on the JP/Rox 
project, the Board "quickly and quietly" voted to adopt the JP/Rox plan. To the extent this 
allegation implies that the Board's oral vote was inaudible to those present, our review of the 
meeting video shows that the Board made this vote at sufficient volume and with sufficient 
clarity to make clear to the public what decision was being made. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to many of the allegations in the complaint. However, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to admit members of the public to fill empty seats in 
the meeting room. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
5 The Civil Rights Division of the Attorney General's Office, which reviews and responds to civil rights complaints 
alleging deprivations of, or interference with, civil rights and civil liberties, is the proper avenue for complaints 
alleging racial discrimination. The Division of Open Government generally limits its review to violations of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
6 While it is possible that security personnel at a meeting could communicate to a public body a genuine security 
need to restrict access, such as when a room is at capacity, the Board provided us no evidence showing that it 
communicated with security personnel during the March 2, 2017 meeting. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangana 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Lisa Thompson 
Ruth Rickenbacker 
Sean Neyhill, Esq., Boston Planning & Development Agency 
This determination was issued pursuant to G,L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 