===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 1, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 197 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Corey F. Williams, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Lowell – Law Department 
375 Merrimack Street, 3
rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852-5909 
 
cwilliams@lowellma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Solicitor Williams:  
 
This office received a complaint from Kerry Jenness on August 14, 2024, alleging that 
the Lowell City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on July 10 and you responded on behalf of 
the Council by letter dated July 30.1  The complaint alleges that the notice of the Council’s July 
9 meeting was not sufficiently specific.   
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In 
addition, we viewed a recording of the July 9 meeting2 and reviewed the notice and minutes of 
the meetings of July 9 and July 23, and the minutes of the meeting of June 25.  We reviewed 
emails from the Office of State Senator Ed Kennedy and Senate Counsel, concerning the home 
rule petition referenced in the complaint.  We reviewed articles posted at Inside Lowell, relative 
to the subject home rule petition and the resignation of John Leahy from the Council.
3  We 
reviewed the legislative history of Senate bill No. 2762, “An Act Relative to Vacancies on the 
City of Lowell City Council and School Committee.”4  Finally, I communicated with you via 
email.   
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 The recording can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGMZM3tFSHs. 
3 “Breaking News: Leahy Stepping Down from City Council,” July 2, https://insidelowell.com/breaking-news-
leahy-stepping-down-from-city-council/; “Home Rule Petition History & Timeline,” J uly 11, 
https://insidelowell.com/home-rule-petition-history-timeline/.  
4 The history may be accessed at https://malegislature.gov/Bills/193/S2762.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.   
 
 Ho
me Rule Petition 
 
On April 23, the Council voted in favor of a home rule petition to govern how a vacancy 
is to be filled when a member resigns from the Council or School Committee prior to expiration 
of their term (“the Home Rule Petition”).  The Home Rule Petition would permit a vacancy to be 
filled by special election, rather than by appointment.  It was filed by State Senator Ed Kennedy 
on May 2, and was reported out of committee by the Joint Committee on Election Laws with a 
favorable recommendation on May 30.   
 
Senate Counsel began its review of the Home Rule Petition in early June.  On June 24, 
the Legislative Director of the office of Senator Kennedy, James Ostis, sent an email to Mayor 
Daniel Rourke and City Manager Thomas Golden Jr., forwarding “a few minor changes/fixes” 
proposed by Senate Counsel.  Mr. Ostis indicated in his email that if the Council were amenable 
to Senate Counsel’s revisions, the Home Rule Petition could be amended on the Senate floor and 
advanced to the House.  On July 8, Mr. Ostis forwarded to Mayor Rourke and members of the 
City Council an email from Senate Counsel explaining his reasoning behind the proposed 
changes.  At its meeting on July 23, the Council authorized the City Manager to act on the Home 
Rule Petition, including execution of required documentation.  An amended draft of the Home 
Rule Petition was enacted by the House and Senate on July 24 and was signed by Governor 
Maura Healey on July 25.  Prior to passage of the Home Rule Petition, the filling of a vacancy 
was governed by statute.  The statute provided that if a member who had run unopposed in the 
prior election vacated their seat, the Council would have 30 days to fill the vacancy by 
appointment.  The statute did not allow for filling such a vacancy through special election.  
 
Council Deliberations 
 
The Council met on June 25.  At the June 25 meeting, Mayor Rourke acknowledged 
receipt of Mr. Ostis’s June 24 email, and indicated that the proposed changes had been 
forwarded to the City Solicitor.  Approximately one week later, on or about July 2, John Leahy 
announced that he would be resigning his seat on the Council effective July 24, to take a position 
with the Lowell Public Schools.
5  At the time, Councilor Leahy represented District 3, also 
referenced as Belvedere.  The Council next met on July 9.  Notice of the July 9 meeting was 
posted electronically on July 5, at 11:00 a.m.  Notice of the July 9 meeting did not list as topics 
to be discussed at the meeting the Home Rule Petition, communication with Senator Kennedy’s 
office, Councilor Leahy’s anticipated resignation, or how to fill a vacancy on the Council.   
 
The Council’s usual practice relative to preparation of meeting notices, which was 
followed in relation to notice of the July 9 meeting, is complex, involving several offices and 
individuals.  City departments, including the Law Department, the City Clerk’s office, and the 
City Manager’s office all play roles in creating the notice.  The City Manager includes any 
“Communications from the City Manager” and the Mayor submits any “Mayor’s Business” to 
 
5 As noted below, Mr. Leahy later moved his last day to July 23. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the City Clerk for inclusion in the notice.  As the Chair of the Council, the Mayor enforces the 
agenda, in collaboration with the City Clerk and the City Solicitor.     
 
The July 9 meeting took place as scheduled.  Approximately 90 minutes into the meeting, 
Councilor Erik Gitschier requested and received permission to “suspend the rules” to discuss the 
July 8 email from Senator Kennedy’s office regarding the Home Rule Petition.
6  Councilor 
Gitschier summarized Senate Counsel’s proposed revisions, as set out in the email that was 
forwarded on July 8.  Councilor Gitschier elaborated that he had spoken to the City Manager the 
week prior to ask if the Home Rule Petition could be placed on the Council agenda so that the 
changes could be voted on and sent back to the Senate.  Councilor Gitschier expressed his 
preference that any Council vacancy be filled by special election, not through appointment by the 
Council.       
 
City Solicitor Corey Williams, who was in attendance at the July 9 meeting, was asked 
for his opinion about the proposed revisions to the Home Rule Petition.
7  He noted that the July 8 
email provided important explanations of the changes proposed in the June 24 email from Mr. 
Ostis.  Solicitor Williams had reviewed the changes the week before and seemingly had spoken 
with the City Manager about them.  Because the amendments were minor, and did not impact the 
ultimate objective of the Home Rule Petition, they could be approved by the City Manager, 
according to Solicitor Williams.   
 
Councilor Rita Mercier agreed that ideally a special election should be conducted to 
allow the residents of Belvedere to choose a person to fill the anticipated vacancy.
8  However, 
because the Home Rule Petition had not yet been finalized and signed into law, there was no 
mechanism in place to allow for a special election.  Councilor Mercier moved to have interested 
residents submit their names to be considered for appointment to the Belvedere District seat.  
Pursuant to Councilor Mercier’s motion, only persons with at least one year of residency in 
Belvedere District 3 could submit their names for consideration, and the submissions would be 
due to the Clerk’s office prior to the Council’s next meeting on July 23.  Spirited discussion 
ensued, with councilors largely agreeing that the residents of Belvedere should have a say in 
filling the anticipated vacancy but disagreeing whether the Council should appoint a replacement 
(as contemplated by Councilor Mercier’s motion) or wait for final approval of the Home Rule 
Petition to allow for a special election.  Councilor Wayne Jenness asserted that the Council 
would need to follow the rules “on the books” when filling the “upcoming vacancy, which 
doesn’t even exist yet.”  He distinguished the impending vacancy, which likely would have to be 
filled by appointment, from future vacancies, which would be filled by special election pursuant 
to the Home Rule Petition.   
 
 
6 See Lowell City Council Rule 32, https://www.lowellma.gov/DocumentCenter/View/20532/LOWELL-CITY-
COUNCIL-
RULES#:~:text=RULE%2032%20%2D%20SUSPENSION%20OF%20RULES,objected%20to%20by%20two%20
Councilors. 
7 For the sake of clarity, you are referenced in the third person. 
8 Like other councilors who spoke on the topic, Councilor Mercier repeatedly referenced Councilor Leahy’s district 
but did not identify Councilor Leahy by name.  In his opening remarks on the subject of the Home Rule Petition, 
Councilor Gitschier did identify Councilor Leahy by name. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Councilor Gitschier expressed concern that a vote on Councilor Mercier’s motion might 
violate the Open Meeting Law.  Two councilors responded that they had suspended the rules.  
Solicitor Williams opined that a vote on Ms. Mercier’s motion would not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  By roll call vote, Councilor Mercier’s motion passed, with seven of the eleven 
councilors voting in favor.  Following the vote, Mayor Rourke invited Councilor Leahy to 
address the chamber.  Councilor Leahy acknowledged that “it’s been out there” that he accepted 
a position with the City.  He announced his resignation from the Council and School Committee, 
effective July 23.   
 
On July 19, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 23.  The notice 
included the following under the heading of “Mayor’s Business”: 
  
Communication - Submissions/Selection District 3 City Council Vacancy: 
1) Reverend Karina Fontanez;  
2) Corey Belanger;  
3) Erin Gendron;  
4) Belinda Juran;  
5) Ronald DiBerto; 
6) Adam Mitchell; 
7) Daniel Finn; 
8) Rithy Uong; and 
9) Martin Burke 
 
At the July 23 meeting, the Council appointed Corey Belanger to fill the vacancy created 
by the resignation of Councilor Leahy.  During the same meeting, Councilor Jenness moved for 
reconsideration of Councilor Mercier’s July 9 motion, which had established the process by 
which the Council invited names of candidates to fill the District 3 vacancy.  The motion to 
reconsider was defeated by roll call vote. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.9  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
 
9 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the meeting notice, 
although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best 
practice, table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant interest to the public 
so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future meeting.  See OML 2019-131; OML 
2018-119; OML 2013-87.  When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether 
it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2024-6; 
OML 2023-101; OML 2022-203.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See 
OML 2021-39; OML 2020-55; OML 2018-134.  Even where the chair considers that a topic is of 
interest to the public body and may be discussed at some time, it need not be included on the 
notice if the chair does not anticipate that it will be discussed at the meeting for which the notice 
is posted.  See OML 2024-180.   
 
As an initial matter, we address the suspension of the rules at the July 9 meeting.  A 
public body may not suspend the application of the Open Meeting Law to its proceedings.  Any 
suspension of the rules would concern rules particular to that body, and would not affect the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.10  Therefore, to the extent that some councilors at the 
July 9 meeting believed that suspension of the rules allowed for discussion of anticipated topics 
that were not listed on the notice, that belief was mistaken.  When the Council voted in favor of 
“suspending the rules,” it did not, and could not, suspend the application of the Open Meeting 
Law.   
 
Based upon our investigation, we find that the Mayor, who is Chair of the Council, and/or  
agents to whom he delegated preparation of the meeting notice, reasonably anticipated that the 
Council would discuss the Home Rule Petition and the vacancy of the District 3 seat at the 
Council’s July 9 meeting.  Amendments of the Home Rule Petition had been the topic of the 
prior meeting on June 24.  Councilor Gitschier asked the City Manager the week before the July 
9 meeting (necessarily 48 hours prior to the meeting) to place the Home Rule Petition on the 
notice for the July 9 meeting, so that the changes could be voted on and sent back to the Senate.  
Solicitor Williams also had spoken to the City Manager about the amendments to the Home Rule 
Petition recently proposed by Senate Counsel.  Although the Mayor serves as the Council Chair, 
he is not exclusively responsible for preparation of the notice.  Some responsibility for the notice 
is delegated to others, including to the City Manager.  As the City Manager plays a direct role in 
the creation of the notice, we may look to what topics he reasonably anticipated to be discussed 
at the July 9 meeting.  The City Manager was asked explicitly to include the Home Rule Petition 
as a topic on the July 9 meeting and declined or failed to do so.  Moreover, the status of the 
Home Rule Petition was all but certain to be discussed at the July 9 meeting due to the 
 
10 The Division of Open Government is tasked with enforcing the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we do not 
investigate whether it was proper for the Council to suspend its own rules.  See OML 2022-135 (“We do not review 
this broader question of whether the Council’s practice of suspending its own docket rules, in general, violates the 
Open Meeting Law. Rather, we review the allegation raised in the complaint before us, which is that the Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed a topic that was not included on the notice for the June 29 
meeting.”) 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
outstanding request for approval of Senate Counsel’s amendments, as well as the anticipated 
resignation of Councilor Leahy.  Although Councilor Leahy formally announced his resignation 
after the extended discussion of Councilor Mercier’s motion, the impending vacancy clearly was 
at top of mind for the councilors even before his announcement as they repeatedly referenced his 
district in the context of how to fill vacancies.  Moreover, his impending resignation had been 
reported in the media a week prior to the July 9 meeting.  See OML 2013-147 (finding that town 
administrator’s resignation was a reasonably anticipated topic of discussion after selectboard 
chair received a phone call from reporter informing him that town administrator was still 
employed as town administrator in another town).  Cf. OML 2017-37 (finding that resignation of 
member of board of selectmen was not reasonably anticipated where chair first learned of 
resignation on day of meeting). 
 
In its response, the Council downplays the vote on Councilor Mercier’s July 9 motion, 
noting that the motion served only to assist the Council in making the appointment.  Pursuant to 
the statute governing the filling of vacancies, each councilor was free to advocate for whomever 
they wished to take Councilor Leahy’s seat.  We do not disagree that the July 9 vote simply 
provided nonbinding procedural guidance for the July 23 appointment.  However, it is not the 
vote on Councilor Mercier’s motion, but the extended deliberation surrounding it and the Home 
Rule Petition, that warranted mention in the notice of the July 9 meeting.11  The Council’s power 
to fill the seat to be vacated by member Leahy does not excuse it from compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law’s notice requirements.  The Council violated the Open Meeting Law on July 9 
when it deliberated about anticipated topics that were not included on the notice for that meeting.   
 
In her complaint, Ms. Jenness asks that we rescind the July 9 vote in favor of Councilor 
Mercier’s motion.  We decline to do so.  On July 23, the Council selected a District 3 resident, 
Corey Belanger, to fill the seat vacated by the resignation of Councilor Leahy.   Discussion of 
that selection was properly included in the notice of the July 23 meeting.  The appointee appears 
to be one of nine residents who submitted their names in response to the call for candidates 
contemplated by Councilor Mercier’s motion.  However, the procedure that was implemented to 
facilitate the selection was not required for the Council to appoint a new member.  Rescission of 
the July 9 vote would not necessitate reconsideration of the July 23 appointment. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its July 9 meeting.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
  
 
11 Indeed, the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice of a meeting separately indicate the possibility of a 
vote, as it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a 
meeting notice.  See OML 2024-156; OML 2019-36; OML 2012-75.   
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Mat
thew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  Kerry Jenness (via email: ) 
 Mayor Daniel Rourke (via email: mayor@lowellma.gov) 
 City Manager Thomas Golden, Jr. (via email: tomgolden@lowellma.gov)   
 Lowell City Clerk (via email: mgeary@lowellma.gov)  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
