===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 27, 2015 
OML 2015-105 
Jessica Wielgus, Esq. 
Commission Counsel 
Cape Cod Commission 
3225 Main Street 
P.O. Box 226 
Barnstable, MA 02630 
Re; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Wielgus: 
This office received two complaints from Ronald Beaty, dated June 2 and June 6, 
alleging that the Cape Cod Commission's Executive Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaints allege that the notice 
for the Committee's May 8 meeting was not sufficiently specific to inform the public of the 
issues to be discussed; that the notice failed to list "open session" as a topic in its meeting notice 
prior to its listing of an executive session topic; and that the Committee entered into executive 
session for an improper purpose during a meeting. The first complaint was filed with the 
Committee on May 11 and the second complaint on May 12. The Committee responded to the 
complaints in separate letters, both dated May 29. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the two complaints filed with the Committee, the 
Committee's responses, and the two complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed 
the notice for, and the open session minutes of, the Committee's May 8 meeting. Finally, we 
reviewed, in camera, the minute of the Committee's May 8 executive session. 
The notice for the Committee's May 8 meeting listed two topics for discussion. The first 
was approval of minutes from the Committee's April 30 meeting. The second topic was, 
"Executive Session - To discuss a complaint against public officials, in particular the Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed by Ronald Beaty against the Executive Committee for the Meeting 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
of the Executive Committee on April 30, 2015 (Purpose #1) of Open Meeting Law." During the 
Committee's May 8 meeting, the Committee entered into executive session under Purpose 1 to 
discuss Mr. Beaty's Open Meeting Law complaint relating to the Committee's April 30 meeting. 
During the executive session, the Committee discussed its response to that Open Meeting Law 
complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.2 A public body may enter into executive 
session under any of ten purposes, including to "discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(aXl) ("Purpose 1"). 
As an initial matter, Mr. Beaty challenges the propriety of the May 8 executive session, 
arguing that a public body may not discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint in executive session 
under Purpose 1 because the purpose only covers complaints against individuals. However, our 
office has stated that a public body may enter into executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss 
an Open Meeting Law complaint because it represents a complaint against the public body 
members as individual public officials. See OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6. We 
therefore find that the executive session discussion that occurred did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
Mr. Beaty also alleges that the notice for the Committee's May 8 meeting was 
insufficient. We find that the executive session topic listed was sufficiently specific to inform 
the public that the Committee would be meeting in executive session under G.L, c. 3OA, § 
21(a)(1), to discuss Mr. Beaty's Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). Mr. Beaty also contends that the notice was inadequate because it failed to list 
an open session prior to its executive session. When the only business to be discussed during an 
open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing "open session" 
on the meeting notice is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a 
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-
9; OML 2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the 
opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. 
However, where additional open session topics are included in a meeting notice, it is clear that 
the public body will first convene in open session, thus a separate topic reading "open session" is 
unnecessary. See OML 2013-155, FN 5; OML 2013-141, FN 7. Here, the notice listed a topic 
for open session discussion - the approval of meeting minutes. We therefore find that the 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Committee was not required to also list "open session" as a topic in its notice, and did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by not doing so. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not 
resolve any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Cape Cod 
Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
t Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cape Cod Commission Executive Committee 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 