===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass, gov/ago 
April 12, 2016 
OML 2016-51 
Christopher J. Petrini, Esq. 
Petrini & Associates, P.C. 
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comr)laint 
Dear Attorney Petrini: 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Butler, dated February 29, 2016, alleging 
that the Framingham Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 10, 2015, and 
the Board responded by letter dated December 24, 2015. In her complaint, Ms. Butler alleges 
that the Board chair denied her the right to speak during a public meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on December 8, 2015. During 
the portion of the meeting reserved for "Public Participation," the chair recognized the 
complainant, permitting her to speak. The complainant made statements critical of the Town of 
Framingham Director of Veterans Services. The Board chair interrupted her, stating that he 
would not permit the complainant to make comments about individuals who were not present at 
the meeting to defend themselves. The complainant discontinued her comments. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). 
FACTS 
DISCUSSION 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Here, the complaint alleges that the chair improperly denied her the right to speak during 
the portion of the meeting reserved for "Public Participation." In her request for review, she 
concedes that the chair has the discretion to decide who may address a public body during a 
meeting but she argues that, once permission to speak is granted by the chair, it may not be 
curtailed. In past determinations, we have stated that it is within a chair's discretion to limit 
participation during public comment periods. See OML 2015-12. On the facts here, we find that 
limiting participation during the meeting at issue was within the chair's prerogative. We 
therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). 
We note that the Attorney General encourages public bodies to allow members of the public to 
speak during public comments periods whenever possible. See OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Deborah Butler 
Framingham Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 