===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 17,2015 
OML 2015-39 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St., 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Lisa Adams, dated December 
14, 2014, alleging that the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that, prior to entering into executive 
session during a September 8, 2014 meeting, the Board failed to publicly state that the Board 
would be taking votes while in executive session. The complaint additionally alleges that the 
Board cancelled a September 11, 2014 hearing without providing the public with 48 hours' 
notice. Finally, the complaint seeks the public release of the minutes of the Board's September 
8, 2014 executive session. The complaint was filed with the Board on September 17, 2014. The 
Board responded to the complaint by letter dated October 24, 2014, following an extension of 
time granted by our office. 
As an initial matter, we find that the complainant's first two allegations, even if found to 
be true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. A public body does not need 
to identify prior to entering into executive session whether votes will be taken. See G.L. c. 30A, 
21(b). Additionally, a public body does not need to provide 48 hours' notice before cancelling a 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).1 
Following our review of the remaining allegation, we find that the Board may continue to 
withhold the Board's September 8, 2014 executive session minutes, because the purpose for the 
' The Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for holding a public hearing; therefore we do not review, 
and offer no opinion on, whether there was a violation of any public hearing law. See OML 2014-31; OML 
Declination 9-3-14 (Lexington Planning Board); OML Decimation 11-12-13 (Ashfield Board of Health). 
*\ m *W SE'Si 
===PAGE 2===
executive session has not yet expired. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint 
filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, 
we reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Board's September 8, 2014 meeting. 
We reviewed, in camera, the executive session minutes of the Board's September 8, 2014 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with Lisa Adams by telephone on January 6, 2015, and with you by 
telephone on January 7 and February 23, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Massachusetts Department of Transportation has 
proposed a project to improve Hatchery Road in Montague. While considering this project, a 
dispute arose concerning the original layout of the road. 
The notice for the Board's September 8, 2014 meeting listed the following topic for 
discussion: "Executive Session under G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6) to consider the purchase, exchange 
or lease of real property; Hatchery Road, Montague, Votes may be taken." During the Board's 
September 8, 2014 meeting, the Board entered into executive session to discuss the layout of 
Hatchery Road. The minutes record that the Board entered into executive session "pursuant to 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) for the purpose of discussing the Hatchery Road relocation project which 
involves the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property because discussing the matter in open 
session may have a detrimental effect on the [Town's] negotiation position." While in executive 
session, the Board discussed the Hatchery Road relocation project. Because the minutes have 
not been publicly released, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we find that 
that the Board discussed how it would proceed but took no votes during the executive session. 
The complainant has since filed a lawsuit against the Board related to this matter. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may meet in executive—or closed—session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes. One such purpose allows a public body to meet in executive session to "consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) 
("Purpose 6"). 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-47; OML 2013-
16; OML 2012-29.2 The minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for which a valid executive 
session was held has been served, the minutes of the session must be disclosed unless the 
attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law apply to 
protect these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure. Id. 
The complaint seeks the public release of the Board's September 8, 2014 executive 
session minutes. The Board's executive session was proper under Purpose 6 because the Board 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetLng. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
held a genuine concern that its discussion could affect the value of properties abutting Hatchery 
Road, which in turn could affect the Board's negotiating position with respect to those abutters. 
The executive session purpose continues to justify confidentiality as the Board is now engaged in 
a lawsuit with the complainant regarding the layout of the Road and because the Board continues 
to have a negotiating position to protect until a final layout for Hatchery Road is resolved. 
Therefore, we find that the Board may continue to withhold these minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board may continue to withhold the minutes of its September 8, 2014 
executive session because the purpose for confidentiality remains ongoing. We now consider 
this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2504 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Montague Board of Selectmen 
Lisa Adams 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 