===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 20, 2013 
OML 2013-64 
Stephen B. Verrill 
Chair, Concord Natural Resources Commission 
Town of Concord 
141 Keyes Road 
Concord, MA 01742 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Concord Natural Resources Commission 
Dear Mr. Verrill: 
This office received two complaints from Edward P. Sinni, Jr., dated January 7, 2013 and 
March 25, 2013, alleging that the Concord Natural Resources Commission (the "Commission") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was originally filed 
with the Commission on December 28, 2012, and you responded to the complaint on behalf of 
the Commission by letter dated January 4, 2013. In his first complaint, Mr Sinni alleges that the 
Commission: 1) limited his opportunity to address the Commission at its December 19, 2012 
meeting; 2) failed to discuss a letter, dated November 29, 2012, submitted to the Commission; 3) 
failed to provide him with a copy of handwritten notes drafted by a Commission member; and 4) 
failed to notice and open to the public a meeting/communication between an applicant and 
Commission staff. The second complaint was originally filed with the Commission on February 
8, 2013, and you responded to the complaint on behalf of the Commission by letter dated March 
20, 2013. In his second complaint, Mr Sinni alleges that the minutes from the Commission's 
December 19, 2012 meeting omitted discussion that took place at the meeting. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed Mr. Sinni's complaints filed with the 
Commission on December 28, 2012 and February 8, 2013; the Commission's January 4, 2013 
and March 20, 2013 responses; Mr Sinni's complaints filed with this office on January 7, 2013 
and March 25, 2013; and the minutes of the Commission's meetings on December 5, 2012 and 
December 19, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by: 1) limiting public participation at the December 19, 2012 meeting; 2) declining to 
discuss a letter submitted to the Commission; 3) failing to notice and open to the public an 
alleged meeting/communication between an applicant and Commission staff; or 4) omitting 
certain remarks from the minutes of the Commission's December 19, 2012 meeting. 
LJ 
===PAGE 2===
We make no finding regarding whether the Commission improperly failed to respond to 
Mr. Sinni's request for handwritten notes drafted by a member of the Commission. The Open 
Meeting Law states that all documents and exhibits used by a public body at an open session 
meeting shall be part of the official record of the session and shall be public records in their 
entirety. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(d), (e). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a 
document to be used at a meeting. OML 2012-42. 1  At a minimum, it is clear that where a 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by members 
of a public body during an open session meeting; it has been "used" for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. In this instance, while the Commission member's personal handwritten notes 
were physically present at the Commission's December 5, 2012 meeting, there is no evidence 
that the notes were verbally identified or that their contents were discussed by the Commission 
during that meeting. As the handwritten notes were not used at a Commission meeting, their 
disclosure is not required by the Open Meeting Law. We express no opinion as to whether or not 
the Commission had an obligation to provide the notes pursuant to the Public Records Law. The 
Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division is 
responsible for determining whether or not a record is public and subject to disclosure. We 
therefore decline to review this allegation, and refer the complainant to the Supervisor of 
Records with any questions about filing an appeal with his office. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Commission was considering a proposal to redevelop a site for a proposed TD Bank at 1112 
Main Street (hereinafter the "Project"). The Commission opened a hearing on the Project on 
April 18, 2012, received testimony on multiple dates, and closed the hearing on December 5, 
2012. Acton Survey and Engineering submitted a letter to the Commission, dated November 29, 
2012, regarding the Project. Although Mr Sinni alleges that the November 29, 2012 Acton 
Survey and Engineering letter was "never discussed at the December 5, 2012 [Commission] 
Meeting," the minutes of the Commission's December 5, 2012 meeting state that the 
Commission discussed the letter during that meeting. 2  
Furthermore, Mr. Sinni alleges that the Project applicant "had a meeting (phone 
discussion, face to face meeting or other communication) with the Natural Resources Staff 
subsequent to the December 5, 2012 [Commission] Meeting and prior to the December 13, 2012 
ZBA meeting without public notice" and that such meeting was not open to public. The 
Commission asserts that no such meeting occurred. 
During its meeting on December 19, 2012, the Commission discussed the draft proposed 
order of conditions for the Project (the "Order"). Mr. Sinni requested that the Commission allow 
public comments on the draft Order. The Commission Chair 3  allowed Mr. Sinni to address the 
Commission. Mr. Sinni alleges that, while he was allowed to comment on the conditions 
included in the draft Order, he was not allowed to offer comments proposing new conditions. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2  The letter was not included in the materials submitted with the complaint, and was not reviewed by this office. 
3  For the sake of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The minutes state that the Commission Chair indicated that "the only discussion the Commission 
[would] entertain [at that meeting] relate[d] to the draft [Order]." The Commission ultimately 
voted that night to approve the Order, as amended. The minutes of this meeting include a 
summary of the discussion, which is slightly more than one single-spaced page in length. 
DISCUSSION 
In his complaint, Mr. Sinni alleges that the Commission: 1) denied him the opportunity to 
provide comments related to the inclusion of new conditions in the Project's Order issued by 
Commission at its meeting on December 19, 2012; 2) failed to discuss a letter submitted to the 
Commission, dated November 29, 2012; 3) failed to notice and open to the public a 
meeting/communication between an applicant and Commission staff; and 4) omitted from the 
minutes discussion that took place during the Commission's December 19, 2012 meeting. We 
address each of Mr. Sinni's allegations in turn. 
I. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Limiting Public  
Participation.  
Mr. Sinni alleges that the Commission limited the scope of his participation during its 
December 19, 2012 meeting, and did not allow him to offer comments proposing the inclusion of 
new conditions in the Project's Order. The Open Meeting Law does not require that public 
bodies allow public participation.4  The law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Commission Chair therefore had discretion to decide who 
could speak at the meeting and for how long. See id. Although public participation is within the 
Chair's discretion, we encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as 
reasonably possible. See OML 2012-59; OML 2012-23. 
II. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Allegedly Declining to  
Discuss a Letter Submitted to the Commission.  
There is a factual dispute as to whether or not the Commission discussed the November 
29, 2012 Acton Survey and Engineering letter during its December 5, 2012 meeting. We need 
not resolve the issue, however, because even if the Commission did not discuss the letter, the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to discuss any topic. See OML 2012-23. The Open Meeting Law just requires that 
a public body post a timely notice listing the topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed, and that such discussions take place during meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), (b). 
III. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Allegedly Failing to  
Notice and Open to the Public a Meeting between the Project Applicant and Commission 
Staff  
Mr Sinni alleges that the Project applicant held a meeting or communicated with 
Commission staff, which was not open to the public, and that no notice was posted for that 
4  This determination concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, therefore we express no opinion as to 
whether any other law may have required the Commission Chair to allow Mr. Sinni to offer additional comments. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
meeting/communication. Again, there is a factual dispute as to whether or not such 
meeting/communication occurred. We need not resolve the issue, however, because even if it 
did occur, this alleged meeting/communication did not involve members of the Commission. 
The Commission is not required to post notice or open to the public a meeting involving only its 
staff, since it does not involve communication between or among a quorum of a public body's 
members. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2012-26; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42. 
IV. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Omitting Certain  
Remarks from the Commission's Minutes.  
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. For substantial compliance, the minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See id. 
Mr. Sinni alleges that the minutes from the Commission's December 19, 2012 meeting 
omitted "critical and operative discussion [. . .] regarding [his] request, which was denied [to 
him], to have the [Commission] enter further conditions to their approval of the [P]roject." The 
minutes include more than a page of details summarizing the discussion on the Project, including 
numerous comments raised by Mr. Sinni The summary is sufficiently detailed that a member of 
the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and understand that Mr. Sinni 
expressed significant concerns regarding the Project, and was advocating for significant revisions 
to the Order. While the minutes may not reflect every detail regarding this discussion, we find 
the minutes were sufficiently accurate to be in substantial compliance with the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this determination. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
y onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Edward P. Sinni, Jr. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 