===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 20, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 133 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gerard Dolan, Esq. 
Assistant General Counsel 
Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Dolan: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Jennifer Boyd Herlihy, on behalf of a 
client, on March 4, 2020, alleging that the Board of Registration in Medicine (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on December 31, 2019,1 and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
January 10, 2020. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
met on December 5 to consider Attorney Herlihy’s client’s physician profile dispute without 
allowing client or counsel “to appear on this matter and provide testimony.”2    
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response, Attorney Herlihy’s request for 
further review which included extensive factual background and legal argument, the December 5 
executive session minutes, a transcript of the executive session, and the personal notes of a 
Board attorney present during the executive session. We also communicated with counsel for the 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019. 
2 We note that the Division of Open Government interprets and enforces the Open Meeting Law only. We review 
this complaint for the purpose of determining whether the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we do 
not address issues regarding any due process rights Attorney Herlihy’s client may or may not have with respect to 
the physician profile dispute process, nor do we make any determination regarding whether, as a matter of best 
practice, the Board should allow physicians to be present when it considers physician profile disputes. A public body 
may invite an individual to attend or participate in an executive session if the public body believes that doing so 
would assist the public body in its work and would not undermine the stated purpose for meeting in executive 
session. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board.3 We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged, but did violate 
the Law by creating and approving insufficiently detailed meeting minutes.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any one or more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). When convening in executive session, each topic to be discussed must be 
individually listed on the meeting notice as well as in the announcement in open session prior to 
entering executive session, and the public body’s discussions must be restricted to those topics. 
See OML 2020-68; OML 2019-170.4  
 
One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (a)(1). 
Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, including the right to 
individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or her behalf, to have 
counsel present, and to record the executive session. A public body may also convene in 
executive session “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or 
federal grant-in-aid requirements” (“Purpose 7”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). A public body entering 
executive session under Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to 
keep its deliberations confidential. When a discussion may properly be held under multiple 
executive session purposes, the public body may choose which executive session purpose(s) to 
cite. See OML 2019-164; OML 2012-53. 
 
Although in the request for further review Attorney Herlihy states that “the Board should 
not be permitted to make determinations [regarding physician profile disputes] without 
permitting the physician, and the public, to participate,” we understand the complaint to allege 
that the Board should have convened in executive session under Purpose 1, and not to allege that 
the discussion was entirely inappropriate for executive session and therefore should have been 
held in open session. However, if the allegation is that the Board should have met in open 
session, we note that the Open Meeting Law allows the Board to convene in executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes. So long as the Board has a proper reason to convene in 
executive session, and the Board limits its discussions to that purpose, it does not violate the law 
by choosing to convene in executive session.  
 
We begin our analysis by noting that in a recent determination and in 2012 our office 
resolved similar complaints against the Board and its Data Repository Committee. OML 2020-
119; OML 2012-12. Those complaints related to the Board and Committee entering into 
executive session under Purpose 7 rather than Purpose 1 to discuss physician profile disputes 
without first providing the physicians with notice and an opportunity to be heard. For many of 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the same reasons explained in these previous determinations, we find here that the Board did not 
violate the Law as alleged.  
 
As in the previous determinations, the physician profile dispute at issue here arose out of 
the Board’s receipt of a Health Care Facility Disciplinary Report filed pursuant to Massachusetts 
General Laws Chapter 111, section 53B (“53B Report”). Attorney Herlihy’s client disputed the 
inclusion of the information included in the 53B Report on their physician profile and the Board 
convened in executive session under Purpose 7 to discuss the report and the dispute. Here, we 
find that, because Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 111, section 53B and Chapter 112, 
section 5 require that 53B Reports remain confidential, the Board properly convened in executive 
session under Purpose 7 to discuss the profile dispute with respect to information contained in 
the 53B Report. See OML 2020-119; OML 2012-12. As in the previous determinations, we need 
not decide whether, in general, Chapter 112, section 5 also satisfies the requirement for Purpose 
7 because we find that the confidentiality requirement for 53B Reports is a valid basis for 
meeting in executive session under Purpose 7.   
 
Additionally, we find that convening under Purpose 1 would not have been proper. The 
Board was not considering disciplinary action against the physician, nor was it directly 
discussing the physician’s reputation, character, physical condition, or mental health. Rather, the 
Board discussed whether it should review matters underlying the 53B Report, or instead should 
simply display the information contained in the report on the physician’s profile.  
 
Finally, as in OML 2020-119, we find that the Board’s December 5 executive session 
minutes are insufficiently detailed where they include no detailed summary of the Board’s 
discussion, and instead simply state that the Board considered the profile dispute. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-119; OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167; OML 2016-105. We order the 
Board to amend its December 5 executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the 
requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Although we do not find the violation to be intentional in 
this instance because the minutes were approved before we issued our determination in OML 
2020-119, we caution the Board that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law and could result in the imposition of a civil penalty.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. However, we find that the minutes of the Board’s December 5 executive session 
are insufficiently detailed, and we order the Board to amend its December 5 executive session 
meeting minutes in accordance with the above guidance. The Board is ordered to revise the 
executive session meeting minutes and to certify to this office within sixty (60) days of the date 
of this letter that it has amended the minutes. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
   
 
       E l i z a b e t h  C a r n e s  F l y n n  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Jennifer Boyd Herlihy, Esq. ( via e-mail:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
