===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 22, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 53 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Justin Makuc 
Chair, Monterey Select Board 
justin@montereyma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Makuc: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 24, 2024,
1 alleging 
that the Monterey Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 15, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 23. The complaint alleges that the 
Board held a meeting on November 25 without posting notice at least 48 hours in advance, when 
there was no emergency that justified the late notice posting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the undisputed facts to be as follows. Kim Alcantara was elected to the Southern 
Berkshire Regional School District Committee (the “Regional School Committee”) on 
November 5. The Town of Monterey’s election results were certified on November 20. The 
Town Clerk at the time of the relevant events was very ill and unable to work a regular schedule.  
 
On Sunday, November 24, Select Board Chair Justin Makuc
2 received an email from Ms. 
Alcantara explaining that she needed to be sworn in by 5:00 p.m. the next day, Monday, 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
November 25. Ms. Alcantara explained that she had been waiting for the Town Clerk to reach 
out to her regarding her swearing in but that that had not happened. She further explained that all 
members of the Regional School Committee needed to attend that body’s meeting scheduled for 
the next day, November 25, because the Regional School Committee would be selecting its chair 
and assigning members to subcommittees.   
 
After receiving Ms. Alcantara’s email and in light of the fact that the Town Clerk was 
unavailable, Chair Makuc explored various options to ensure that Ms. Alcantara would be sworn 
in in time for the Regional School Committee’s meeting the next day. Chair Makuc sought legal 
advice from both the Town’s counsel and the School District’s counsel. The School District’s 
counsel advised that they were not comfortable with a clerk from one of the other towns in the 
School District swearing in Ms. Alcantara as those clerks would not be able to verify that Ms. 
Alcantara was a registered voter in Monterey. In the Board’s response Chair Makuc explained 
that, relying “on the representations of Ms. Alcantara and the opinion of School counsel” Chair 
Makuc determined “that he had no choice but to call an emergency meeting to appoint a 
temporary Town Clerk.”   
 
The Board posted notice at 12:13 p.m. on November 25 for a meeting to be held at 1:00 
p.m. that same day.
3 The notice included one substantive topic—“Appoint Temporary Town 
Clerk: Mari Enoch.” During the meeting Chair Makuc explained the situation and shared the 
opinions he had received from both the Town’s legal counsel and the School District’s legal 
counsel. Thereafter the Board voted “to appoint Mari Enoch as the Temporary Town Clerk 
effective immediately and for a period of two business days.” The meeting was then adjourned, 
lasting a total of approximately three minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as 
soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). An “emergency” is 
defined as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding 
immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency 
meeting lies with the public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.
4  
 
 The complaint alleges that the Board’s November 25 meeting violated the Open Meeting 
Law because there was no emergency, as that term is defined in the Open Meeting Law, that 
justified posting notice less than 48 hours in advance. The Complainant makes several assertions 
in support of this allegation, including that the need to appoint a temporary Town Clerk at the 
last minute was due to poor planning on Ms. Alcantara’s part; that a notary public or the 
 
3 Chair Makuc further explains that prior to Ms. Enoch being able to take Ms. Alcantara’s oath, the Moderator had to 
give the oath of office to Ms. Enoch. Because each of these steps needed  to occur before the Regional School 
Committee’s meeting scheduled for 7:00 p.m. that same day, Chair Makuc scheduled the emergency meeting for 
1:00 p.m. to allow sufficient time for each step to occur.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office could have sworn Ms. Alcantara in; and that the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that public body members be sworn in before serving on a body.   
 
 Although Ms. Alcantara may have been aware that she would need to be sworn in prior to 
the Regional School Committee’s first meeting, there is no evidence that she knew the Clerk 
would be unavailable to do so, and moreover, there is no evidence that the Board was aware of 
this requirement until Ms. Alcantara emailed Chair Makuc the day before the Regional School 
Committee’s first meeting. Additionally, based on the information available to him, including 
advice of legal counsel, Chair Makuc understood that Ms. Alcantara was required to be sworn in 
by Monterey’s Town Clerk prior to the Regional School Committee’s meeting on November 25; 
no authority to the contrary has been presented. In these circumstances, we find that the Board 
acted reasonably in holding the November 25 meeting with less than 48 hours’ notice because 
there was a generally unexpected set of circumstances that demanded immediate action. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18; OML 2023–175; OML 2020-123. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it held a meeting on November 25 without first posting notice 48 hours in advance 
where there was a generally unexpected set of circumstances that demanded immediate action. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
 Monterey Town Clerk (via email: clerk@montereyma.gov) 
Monterey Town Administrator (via email: admin@montereyma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
