===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 29, 2014 
OML 2014-154 
Timothy D. Zessin, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Zessin: 
This office received a complaint from Ann Daley, dated November 21, alleging that the 
Huntington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board held an executive session on August 
25 during which it voted to terminate Ms. Daley's employment with the Town without providing 
her the opportunity to be present with counsel. Ms. Daley originally filed her complaint with the 
Board on or about September 26, and then filed an amended complaint that is undated. The 
Board responded through counsel by letter dated October 28. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching our determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
response; Mr. Pickering's response; and the complaint filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Ms. Daley was employed with the Town prior to August 
28. On August 18, the Board served Ms. Daley with notice that it intended to convene in 
executive session on August 20 to discuss two specific complaints regarding her work 
performance. According to the Board, Ms. Daley left a message on August 19 on the Board's 
office voicemail requesting a postponement. The Board agreed, and rescheduled the meeting for 
August 25. Ms. Daley does not recall receiving notice of the August 20 meeting nor leaving any 
voicemail requesting postponement. The Board issued a new letter on August 21 informing Ms. 
Daley of its August 25 executive session for the purpose of discussing her discipline and possible 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014. 
===PAGE 2===
termination. On August 25, prior to the executive session, Ms. Daley's attorney emailed and 
faxed the Board requesting that the meeting be postponed so that she may have the opportunity 
to meet with her client to discuss the matter. The Board did not respond to the request and did 
not postpone the meeting. 
The Board met on August 25 and entered into executive session. During the executive 
session, the Board heard complaints relating to Ms. Daley's work performance and voted to 
terminate her employment. Neither Ms. Daley nor her attorney attended the meeting. The Board 
issued Ms. Daley a termination letter dated August 28. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to meet behind closed doors for any of ten 
enumerated purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose allows a public body to enter 
executive session "to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather 
than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed during such an executive 
session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session, and has the right to be present during deliberations, has the right to have 
counsel present, has the right to speak on her own behalf, and has the right to create a recording 
or transcription of the executive session at her own expense. Id 
While the Board was required to notify Ms. Daley in writing at least 48 hours prior to the 
executive session, it was not required to accommodate her attorney's scheduling request. See 
OML 2012-107.2 The Law requires only that the Board provide Ms. Daley with the opportunity 
to be present and have counsel attend. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The Board did not prevent either 
Ms. Daley or her counsel from attending the August 25 executive session. Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We note, however, that our office 
encourages public bodies to make reasonable accommodations to enable individuals who are the 
subject of a Purpose 1 executive session to attend with counsel. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, please 
do not hesitate to contact our office at (617)-963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass, gov/ago/opemeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Huntington Board of Selectmen 
Ann Daley 
Christine M. Pikula, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 