===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 6, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 228 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
cmurray@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Murray:  
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on November 14, 2024, alleging that 
the Wellfleet Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint originally was filed with the Board on May 18.1  You responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated November 14.2  The complaint alleges that the Board: (1) entered executive 
session under Purpose 6 on April 23 and May 93 without grounds to do so; (2) posted notice of 
the Purpose 6 topic which was insufficiently specific because it did not identify the property to 
be discussed; and (3) posted insufficiently specific notice of the Purpose 2 topic on May 9. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board viola
 ted the Open Meeting Law when it 
posted insufficiently specific notice of the Purpose 6 topic.  We find that the Board did not 
violate the Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 The Board is reminded that within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body 
must meet to review the complaint’s allegations, take remedial action, if appropriate, and send a response to the 
complainant.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The Board sent its response approximately five months late, 
and only after the complainant alerted our office to its failure to respond.  Although we decline to impose sanctions 
for the late response, as requested by the complainant, we caution the Board to respond to any future Open Meeting 
Law complaints in a timely manner. 
3 The complaint references the Board’s meeting of May 7.  However, the May 7 meeting did not include an 
executive session, as alleged by the complainant.  In its response to the complaint, the Board assumes (as do we) that 
the complainant intended to reference the May 9 meeting.  The notice posted on the Board’s page initially showed 
that the executive session was scheduled for May 7.  However, on July 26, the notice was revised to accurately 
reflect that the executive session was held on May 7, not May 9. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further 
review.  We also reviewed the notices of meetings held April 23, May 7, and May 9.  Finally, we 
communicated with Attorney Samuel Myers, of your office, via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Town of Wellfleet has adopted its municipal website, 
http://www.wellfleet-ma.gov, as the official method of posting notice of public meetings.  
Notices of the Board’s meetings are posted to two different locations on the municipal website: 
the town calendar and the Board’s page.   
 
On April 19, the Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on April 23.  The notice 
included an executive session under the following purposes: 
 
• c.30A, Sec. 21; Purpose 2: To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negoti
ations with non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or 
contract negotiations with non-union personnel. Contract negotiations for Town 
Administrator Thomas Guerino. 
• Purpose 6. To consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the 
chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body. 
 
On April 30, the Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on May 9.  The notice 
found on the Board’s page included an executive session under the following purposes: 
 
• M.G.L. c.30A, Sec. 21- Purpose 2: To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negoti
ations with non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or 
contract negotiations with non-union personnel. 
~ Finalize the Town Administrators Contract 
• M.G.L. c. 30A, Section 21 - Purpose 6: To consider the purchase, exchange, lease, or 
value of real estate, if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body. 
~ The Gestalt Center 
 
The notice of the May 9 meeting that was posted to the town calendar differed from the 
notice posted to the Board’s page in that it did not reference the property to be discussed under 
Purpose 6 (“the Gestalt Center”).   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it invoked Purpose 6 to 
convene in executive session on April 23 and May 9. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
open session unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible 
purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).   
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body may meet in executive session to 
“consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in 
negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the 
public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See District Atty. for the 
Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 2016-50.4   
 
Executive session purposes are narrowly construed.  The public body bears the burden of 
demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose.  See District Attorney for 
the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009).  Discussions under 
Purpose 6 must relate directly to the purchase, lease, exchange, or value of real property where 
confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body’s negotiating position.  See OML 2024-37; 
OML 2022-119; OML 2021-62.  The proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a public 
body’s negotiating position vis-a-vis other parties to a transaction, not to escape the 
inconvenience of public scrutiny or opposition.  See OML 2024-37; OML 2023-241; OML 
2023-81.   
 
The complainant maintains that the Board’s discussion of the property at 1035 Cemetery 
Road (“the Gestalt Center”) could have been conducted in open session.  However, at the time of 
the executive sessions on April 23 and May 9, the Board was negotiating the purchase of the 
subject property.  The Board determined that public discussions of the property would adversely 
impact its negotiating position.  Under the circumstances, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law when it chose to discuss the Gestalt Center in executive session under Purpose 6 on 
April 23 and May 9.   
 
II. The calendar notice of the May 9 meeting did not list the Purpose 6 discussion 
with sufficient specificity. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-158; OML 2019-134; OML 
2015- 35.  
 
For local public bodies, notice must be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(c).  A municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting location 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
for all public bodies within the municipality.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b); OML 2024-158.  Although 
public bodies are welcome to post notice of their meetings in multiple locations if they choose, a 
local public body has one official notice posting location for purposes of complying with the 
Open Meeting Law.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c); OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.  To 
avoid confusion and the potential for differing versions of notices, our office discourages the 
posting of notices in multiple online locations, unless they are linked to the same page.  See 
OML 2024-158; OML 2020-73. 
 
The Town of Wellfleet has designated its municipal website, http://www.wellfleet-
ma.gov, as the official posting location for all public bodies within the municipality.  Bot h the  
town calendar and the Board’s page are accessible through http://www.wellfleet-ma.gov, as 
contrasted with some municipalities which have designated a specific page on the municipal 
website, e.g., https://www.wayland.ma.us/calendar.5  Here, where the calendar and the Board’s 
web page could both be reached via the website designated as the town’s official posting 
location, and there was no indication that one location hosted the primary or the official notice, 
both notices must contain the specificity required by the Open Meeting Law.  Cf. OML 2021-98 
(noting that posting multiple meeting notices for the same meeting, especially where the notices 
contain different information, may well confuse the public).  
 
When posting notice of an anticipated Purpose 6 discussion, the executive session topic 
should include a sufficient description of the anticipated executive session, such as the statutory 
citation to the specific executive session purpose relied on and/or the language used in the 
statute, along with information about the specific property to be discussed, if such disclosure 
does not compromise the Board’s negotiating position.  See OML 2024-158; OML 2016-94; 
OML 2016-5.  A public body must disclose some descriptive information about the real property 
to be discussed unless disclosure of this information would compromise the purpose for the 
executive session.  See OML 2024-158; OML 2024-67; OML 2018-73.  The Board 
acknowledges in its response that the notice for the May 9 executive session, posted on the town 
calendar, was not sufficiently specific.  We agree.  The Board argues that there were other means 
by which the public could learn what property was to be discussed, and that “there was no real 
question as to what property the Board was discussing.”  However, the public body must include 
all required information in the notice posted to the municipality’s official posting location.  See 
OML 2023-67 (“Although a topic may be accurate and meaningful to members of the public 
body and those who regularly follow the public body’s business, topics should be listed with 
sufficient clarity to reasonably advise the broader public of the matters to be discussed.”).   
Having failed to do so, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted an 
insufficiently specific notice to the calendar on its website.6   
 
  
 
5 The Attorney General maintains a listing of the official notice posting location for each municipality in 
Massachusetts, based on information provided by the municipality.  See https://www.mass.gov/info-details/official-
notice-posting-locations-for-public-bodies.  
6 Because we find a violation for failure to include any identifying information on the notice of the Purpose 6 
executive session, we need not decide whether “Gestalt Center” adequately identified the property in question.  
Compare OML 2024-67 (“Holtec (Value of Real Property)” not sufficiently specific) with OML 2023-136 (“1000 
acres” was widely-used shorthand for a particular grouping of parcels and therefore sufficiently specific). 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
III. Notice of the Purpose 2 executive sessions was sufficiently specific. 
 
One permissible purpose for executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  The scope of Purpose 2 is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that 
occur prior to the execution of a contract.  See OML 2024-52; OML 2023-78.  When convening 
in executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies should identify, both in their notice and in 
the open session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject 
of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the public body’s 
negotiating position.  See OML 2022-29; OML 2016-70; OML 2015-193.  In its notices of 
executive sessions to be conducted under Purpose 2, the Board properly cited to its authority 
under Purpose 2 and also provided appropriate detail, “Contract negotiations for Town 
Administrator Thomas Guerino” (April 23) and “Finalize the Town Administrators [sic] 
Contract” (May 9).  We find that the notices were sufficiently specific as to the Purpose 2 
executive sessions. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted insufficiently specific notice of a Purpose 6 topic.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Since
rely,  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Ronald Bea ty (via email: ) 
 Wellfleet Town Clerk (via email: jennifer.congel@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
