===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 76 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
Briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 14, 2024,
1 alleging that 
the Seekonk Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 1, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated March 14.  The complaint alleges that the Board discussed two topics 
during its February 14 meeting that were not included on the notice for the meeting: an update on 
the hiring of a fire chief and a snow plowing policy. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s February 14 meeting, and a 
video recording of the Board’s February 14 meeting.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).  Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id.  A public body 
may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the chair of the public body and any other 
person responsible for preparing the meeting notice did not reasonably anticipate that the topic 
 
1 All dates are in 2024. 
2 A video recording of the February 14 meeting is available at 
http://cable9.dyndns.org/CablecastPublicSite/show/9032?site=1.  The discussion at issue begins around 32:30.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
would be discussed during the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.3  We recommend that 
public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant 
interest to the public in order to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting 
if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting.  See OML 2019-131.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed an update on the hiring of a fire chief and 
a snow plowing policy during its February 14 meeting, despite neither topic appearing on the 
meeting notice.  The Board explains that the Chair did not anticipate either topic for discussion, 
and notes that another member of the Board brought up these topics and requested updates.  
Video of the meeting corroborates the Board’s explanation.  Discussion of the open session 
topics listed on the meeting notice had concluded and the Chair called for a motion to enter 
executive session; another Board member interrupted and Board member Justin Sullivan raised 
the snow plowing and fire chief hiring matters.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-73.  We find no 
indication that the Chair anticipated discussion on either topic.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 Seekonk Select Board (via email: mhines@seekonk-ma.gov) 
 Seekonk Town Clerk (via email: fcraig@seekonk -ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
