===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 6,2017 
OML 2017-52 
Fernand J. Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street 
Westfield, MA 01085 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
This office received a complaint from Richard Cohen, dated June 30, 2016, alleging that 
a "Chairs Committee" composed of the chairs of the Williamstown Elementary School District, 
the Lanesborough Elementary School District, and the Mount Greylock Regional High School 
District violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed on May 24, 2016, and the three chairs responded by letter dated June 23, 2016. In his 
complaint, Mr. Cohen alleges that the three chairs deliberated on several occasions without 
following the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including posting notice and keeping 
minutes. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the districts' response, and the request for further review filed 
with our office. We also reviewed all documentation provided with these filings, including a 
document dated October 3, 2011 establishing a shared Administrative Review Subcommittee. 
We spoke with legal counsel for the school districts by telephone on October 14 and November 
3, 2016. Finally, we reviewed a supplementary e-mail from the districts' legal counsel dated 
November 14, 2016.1 
We find the facts as follows. The Williamstown Elementary School District, the 
Lanesborough Elementary School District, and the Mount Greylock Regional High School 
District share certain resources, including a central office. Each district is governed by its own 
elected school committee, however the three school committees established two additional 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
committees: (i) Superintendency Union 71, which represents the two elementary school districts, 
and which consists of three members each from Williamstown and Lanesborough; and (ii) the 
Administrative Review Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee"), which represents all three districts 
and which is composed of the chairs of each school committee, along with an additional member 
from Mount Greylock. The Subcommittee is responsible for generating the superintendent's 
contract, job descriptions, and evaluation procedure, as well as reviewing service contracts. The 
Subcommittee also makes recommendations to the three school committees regarding the costs 
shared between the districts. The agreement creating the Subcommittee states that the quorum 
for the Subcommittee is all four members. 
Beginning in approximately October 2015, the chairs of the three districts began meeting 
with each other, occasionally along with Williamstown-Lanesborough School Superintendent 
Douglas Dias. At all times relevant to this complaint, this group included Daniel Caplinger from 
Williamstown, Regina DiTego from Lanesborough, and Carrie Greene from Mount Greylock. 
These same individuals were also members of the Subcommittee. The chairs met with the 
Superintendent at least eight times. While notice was not posted for meetings with the 
Superintendent and minutes were not kept, agendas were circulated by e-mail between the 
participants on several occasions. During these meetings with the Superintendent, the three 
chairs discussed administrative topics, including hiring for various positions, employment 
contract issues, operation of the shared office, and coordination with local collaboratives. 
In other instances, Mr. Caplinger, Ms. Greene, and Ms. DiLego exchanged e-mails on 
which Dr. Dias was copied. In one e-mail chain, initiated by Dr. Dias on March 4, 2016, the 
chairs endorsed the idea of Dr. Dias serving as the part-time superintendent of Superintendency 
Union 71. On May 13, 2016, the complainant sent an e-mail to the three chairs and Dr. Dias 
suggesting that the Subcommittee should delay scheduling the superintendent's evaluation. Mr. 
Green responded, copying all other parties, stating, "Let's discuss at today's meeting," indicating 
that the chairs would discuss the matter with Dr. Dias. Following that meeting, Ms. DiLego sent 
an e-mail, copying the other chairs and Dr. Dias, stating that the evaluation timeline would 
proceed as planned. Other e-mails between the three chairs and Dr. Dias concerned engagement 
of legal counsel and the location of shared office space. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(a), (b). A "public body" is defined in relevant part as any 
"multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee . . . however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." Id. at § 18. A 
"meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." Id, A "deliberation" is "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction, provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of 
a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is the 
simple majority of the member of a public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or 
special law, executive order, or other authorizing provision. Id. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Here, the complaint alleges that Mr. Caplinger, Ms. DiLego, and Ms. Greene met 
together as a "Chairs Committee" to deliberate on matters of public concern. As an initial 
matter, none of the districts involved nor the Subcommittee ever designated the three individuals 
referenced in the complaint as a Chairs Committee.2 However, because the same three 
individuals were also members of the Subcommittee, any discussion of business within the 
Subcommittee's jurisdiction between or among a quorum would need to occur at a properly 
noticed meeting. All three chairs denied that any improper discussion of Subcommittee business 
took place during any meetings with the Superintendent. Further, the chairs deny that the 
matters discussed over e-mail fall within the Subcommittee's jurisdiction. We need not reach 
these questions to resolve this complaint. The agreement establishing the Subcommittee setting 
quorum for the Subcommittee at all four members. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (quorum may be other 
than a simple majority of members if so provided by "other authorizing provision"). None of the 
communications referenced in the complaint included all four Subcommittee members, nor did 
they include a quorum of any single public body. Because the meetings and e-mails referenced 
in the complaint involved three Subcommittee members—less than a quorum—we find that they 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-32.3 While we are constrained to reach 
this result, we note that the practice of the chairs meeting with the Superintendent may create the 
appearance of improper deliberation, see OML 2014-25, and we advise the parties involved that 
the best practice is to hold all discussions during noticed, open meetings going forward. 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or with any public body 
referenced in this letter. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
cc: Richard Cohen 
2 In his June 23, 2016 letter, legal counsel for the districts states that the Dr. Dias asked the three chairs to 
periodically provide advice. To the extent that the complaint alleges that this request established the three chairs as 
a public body, we note that an individual public official, such as the Superintendent, may appoint a group to advise 
that public official on a decision he or she has the sole authority to make without triggering the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. See Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover. 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991); OML 2012-65. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerelv. 
K'evin W. Manganarer^ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 