===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 213 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
David J. Doneski, Esq.  
KP Law 
ddoneski@k-plaw.com   
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Doneski: 
 
This office received a complaint from Rich Saltzberg of the Martha’s Vineyard Times on 
May 26, 2022,
1 alleging that the Tisbury Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 18, 
and, after an extension of time granted by our office, Attorney Joseph Duquette at KP Law 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 23. The complaint alleges that the Board 
1) failed to timely approve executive session minutes; 2) failed to timely respond to a request for 
executive session minutes; and 3) failed to release executive session minutes.   
 
Following our review, we find, and the Board concedes in part, that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and subsequent 
communications and additional documents provided to our office by the Complainant. We also 
communicated with counsel for the Board by email.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On May 24 and December 15, 2017, the Board 
convened in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”) “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” The subject of these discussions 
was Tisbury police officer Mark Santon. On January 31, 2018, the Board convened in executive 
session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”) “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining with the police union . . . .” During the January 31, 2018, executive session 
the Board voted to approve a settlement agreement reached with Mr. Santon regarding his exit 
from the Tisbury police force.  
 
On January 27 at 11:41 p.m., the Complainant, on behalf of the Martha’s Vineyard 
Times, sent an email requesting, pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “any and all sets of 
executive session minutes focused, on or related to, Mark Santon, a former Tisbury Police 
Officer. This request excludes executive session minutes older than 2014.” On January 28, the 
Town Clerk responded via email to the Complainant confirming receipt of the request.  
 
On February 9, Attorney Duquette emailed the Complainant on behalf of the Town and 
requested an extension of time to respond to the request for executive session minutes, 
explaining that the Town Administrator was out of the office until February 14 and therefore not 
able to assist in preparing a response. The Complainant responded to Attorney Duquette that 
same day and did not consent to an extension of time.  
 
At some point the Board identified three sets of executive session minutes that were 
responsive to the Complainant’s request. These included minutes for executive sessions held on 
May 24 and December 15, 2017, and January 31, 2018. On February 14 the Town Administrator 
emailed the Complainant stating that the Board would need to review the executive session 
minutes and vote as to whether to release them.  
 
On February 16 the Board met to review the three sets of executive session minutes. At 
that time, the Board determined that the executive session purpose remained ongoing for all three 
sets of minutes and that it would continue to withhold the three sets of minutes in their entirety.  
 
On February 18, the Complainant filed the present complaint. On February 22, the Town 
Administrator emailed the Complainant stating that the Board “voted not to release May 24, 
2017, December 15, 2017 and January 31, 2018 Executive Session Meeting Minutes finding the 
purposes still applicable.” 
 
On March 16, the Board met and determined that it should release the minutes for the 
January 31, 2018, executive session and the approved settlement agreement that was the subject 
of that executive session meeting. The January 31, 2018, executive session minutes and the 
approved settlement agreement have since been provided to the Complainant.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to convene in closed, executive session for 
any one or more of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to 
hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). 
 
I. The Board Faile
 d to Timely Approve Executive Session Minutes.  
 
Executive and open session meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely 
manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22; 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2).3 The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay.” 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes for its 
executive sessions held on May 24 and December 15, 2017, and January 31, 2018.
4 The Board 
acknowledges that it failed to timely approve the three sets of minutes at issue here. The Board 
has committed to establishing a procedure for timely approving meeting minutes in the future.  
 
II. The Board Faile d to Timely Respond to a Request for Executive Session Minutes. 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publica
tion may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer . . . .” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in 
part, from disclosure. See id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive 
session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School 
Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151.5  
 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A
, § 22(g)(2). If the public body or a designee has determined, prior to the request, that 
the executive session minutes may be released, it should, within ten days, respond to the 
requester and provide the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2020-16. If the body has 
determined that the executive session minutes should remain confidential because publication 
would defeat the lawful purpose of the executive session, it should respond to the requester 
within ten days providing the reason why the minutes continue to be withheld. See OML 2013-
105. If, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to 
 
3 The Open Meeting Law also includes a sperate obligation that public bodies periodically review their executive 
session minutes to determine if they should be approved for release to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  
4 The complaint raises allegations about a set of minutes for an executive session held on January 21, 2018. We 
understand this to be a typo and for the complaint to relate to the minutes of the executive session held on January 
31, 2018.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review 
and re
lease the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body must still 
respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying them that the body is conducting this review. 
See OML 2013-99. 
 
The Board acknowledges that it did not timely respond to the Complainant’s request for 
executive session minutes but asserts that it asked the Complainant for an extension of time to 
respond because the Town Administrator was out of the office and not able to assist in preparing 
a response to the request. The Open Meeting Law does not specifically provide for extensions of 
time to respond to requests for meeting minutes, and regardless, the initial response from 
Attorney Duquette requesting additional time was not sent to the Complainant until February 9, 
two days past the ten-day deadline. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to timely respond to a request for executive session minutes.  
 
Additionally, we note that the Board did not timely review the executive session minutes 
in response to the request. As explained above, if, at the time of a request, the public body has 
not conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is 
warranted, the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later 
than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). A review 
of the Board’s meeting notices posted online shows that the Board’s next meeting following the 
request was February 4; however, the Board did not review the minutes until the following 
meeting on February 16.  
 
III. The Board Fa
 iled to Meet Its Burden With Respect to Justifying Continued 
Nondisclosure of the Executive Session Meeting Minutes. 
 
In its response, the Board explains that it met in executive session on May 24 and 
December 15, 2017, under Purpose 1 “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition, or 
mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual (Detective Santon) or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against the same.” The 
Board asserts that “it exercised its lawful discretion in determining that the purpose of the 
executive session with respect to these two sets of minutes has not expired, particularly where 
the identity of the individual is known to the requestor . . . .” The Board further asserts “that 
should [the Board] be required to release these minutes, substantial portions of the minutes 
would need to be redacted in accordance with the Public Records Law and the attorney-client 
privilege such that the minutes would be difficult to understand.” The Board also acknowledges 
in its response that the Martha’s Vineyard Times has written about the termination of Mr. 
Santon, the subject of the May 24 and December 15, 2017, Purpose 1 discussions. 
 
We understand the Complainant to assert that the Board may not continue to withhold the 
minutes of the May 24 and December 15, 2017, executive sessions because the Town previously 
released to the public an Internal Affairs Division report requesting that the Board hold a hearing 
to determine if there was just cause to terminate Mr. Santon and another report, commissioned 
by the Town and written by Billingsgate Associates LLC, regarding an incident involving Mr. 
Santon. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
Our office made two requests to the Board, through counsel, asking that the Board 
provide
 additional explanation regarding its assertion that the purposes for the May 24 and 
December 15, 2017, executive sessions are ongoing such that the Open Meeting Law justifies 
continued nondisclosure. We also reminded the Board that it had the burden of justifying 
continued nondisclosure. We did not receive a substantive response to these requests. Therefore, 
we find that the Board has not met its burden of justifying continued nondisclosure.  
Additionally, minutes of executive session discussions regarding complaints and disciplinary 
action generally must be released to the public once the public body has taken all action it 
intends to take regarding the matter. See OML 2022-1 (explaining that the Open Meeting Law no 
longer authorized withholding meeting minutes once the public body had issued a letter of 
expectations to the subject of complaints and did not intend to take further action, even though 
implementation of the expectations remained ongoing); OML 2021-143 (finding that the purpose 
for an executive session had concluded when the public body issued a statement explaining that 
it had taken all the action it was authorized to take in response to a complaint).  
 
We find that the Board may no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law to withhold the 
minute
s of its executive sessions held on May 24 and December 15, 2017, and we order the 
Board to release these minutes. If the Board believes that portions of the executive session 
minutes may be withheld from the public under a claim of attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law, then it may redact such information, but it may not 
continue to withhold the minutes pursuant to the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). If 
the Complainant disputes the validity of any redactions made to the minutes, he may file an 
appeal with the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office.  
 
IV. We do not Find that the Board Intentionally Violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, we must determine whether the violations wer e, as the complaint urges, 
intentional. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, 
in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation 
may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or 
has previously been advised by our office that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. 
Id. The complaint states that because minutes released in response to a 2021 request for 
executive session minutes were largely unapproved, and based on “the revelatory and politically 
challenging nature of those minutes released in 2021 and the informed suspicion the recently 
approved and withheld minutes are of a similar nature, the minutes were intentionally not 
reviewed and approved in a timely manner . . . .” The complaint further alleges that “the Board 
intentionally and unjustifiably withheld” the three sets of minutes at issue in this complaint.  
 
This
 office has not issued any determinations to the Board regarding approval or release 
of executive session minutes. Furthermore, we do not find any evidence to support a finding that 
the Board acted with intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to find the 
violations found here to be intentional. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting by failing 
to timely approve executive session minutes, failing to timely respond to a request for executive 
session minutes, and failing to release executive session minutes. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the 
Board to release the minutes for its executive sessions held on May 24 and December 15, 2017, 
to the Complainant, subject to appropriate redactions, within 30 days of the date of this letter. 
Finally, we recommend that the Board review all other executive session minutes that have not 
recently been reviewed to determine whether they must be released, consistent with the guidance 
contained in this letter.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Roy Cutrer , Vice Chair, Tisbury Select Board c/o John Grande, Town Administrator (via 
email: jgrande@tisburyma.gov) 
Rich Saltzberg (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
