===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www. mass .go v/ago 
June 28, 2013 
OML 2013-84 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Dawn Padovani, dated March 20, 2012, 
alleging that the Carver Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that three members of the Board violated the law by 
"engaging in deliberations outside of a properly noticed and posted public meeting as evidenced 
by their signatures on the Clerical Union Contract," and that the contract "has never been 
approved or ratified in open session." The complaint was filed with the Board on January 12, 
2012. The Board responded by letter dated March 19, 2012, following an extension of time 
granted by our office. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this novel 
issue. Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the January 12, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; the 
Board's March 19, 2012 response; and the March 20, 2012 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice and draft open and executive session minutes of the 
Board's August 30, 2011 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a March 8, 2012 memorandum from the 
Town Administrator, and the open session minutes of the Board's March 13, 2012 meeting. 
FACTS 
Pursuant to Chapter 3.4.4.3 of the Town of Carver's General Bylaws, the Town 
Administrator is responsible for negotiating all contracts and collective bargaining agreements 
with Town employees, with final agreements subject to approval by the Board of Selectmen. 
The Town's collective bargaining agreement with the administrative, clerical, custodial, library 
and maintenance staff, represented by the Service Employees International Union, Local 888, 
AFL-CIO (the "Clerical Union"), expired on June 30, 2011. By the end of August 2011, the 
Town Administrator and the Clerical Union had worked out the terms of a preliminary 
Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") to serve as a bridge between the expired agreement 
and a successor agreement that was negotiated between the parties. At the conclusion of the 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 

===PAGE 2===
Board's August 30, 2011 open meeting, the Board voted unanimously to "enter into Executive 
Session and not to return to Open Session for an update with respect to collective bargaining 
with the Clerical, DPW, Dispatcher and Police Unions as an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the position of the Town." The terms of the proposed MOU were presented 
to the Board during the executive session, and the Board voted unanimously to approve the 
MOU. The Clerical Union provided the Town Administrator with a written MOU in December 
2011, and on December 21, 2011, three Board members signed the MOU outside of a meeting. 
At a Special Town Meeting on February 27, 2012, the Town voted to fund the MOU. On March 
13, 2012, the Town Administrator updated the Board in open session, and the Board voted to 
ratify the MOU that its members had previously signed. The Town Administrator further 
advised the Board in open session that it would be asked to vote on the final collective 
bargaining agreement once all of the terms have been finalized. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of public bodies be open to the public, 
except during executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A "meeting" is defined, in part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A public body may enter executive session for 
any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among those purposes is Purpose 2, to 
"conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(2). Another purpose. Purpose 3, allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
On August 30, 2011, the Board voted unanimously in executive session to approve the 
terms of the MOU. On March 13, 2012, after this complaint was filed with the Board, the Town 
Administrator updated the Board in open session and the Board voted to ratify the MOU that it 
had previously signed. The complaint alleges that the union contract "has never been approved 
or ratified in open session" and that three members of the Board violated the law by deliberating 
outside of a properly noticed meeting to sign the MOU. 
With respect to the first allegation, the issue turns on whether the relevant agreement 
concerns unions or non-union personnel and, consequently, which executive session purpose 
applies. For example, we have said that while a public body may agree on terms with individual 
non-union personnel in executive session, the final vote to execute such agreements must be 
taken by the public body in open session.  See OML 2011-56; 2011-44; OML 2011-28.1 This is 
because executive session Purpose 2 allows a public body to meet in executive session to discuss 
its strategy with respect to negotiating a contract with non-union personnel, and to engage in 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 

===PAGE 3===
direct negotiations with non-union personnel, but does not permit the public body to take a final 
vote to execute such a contract behind closed doors. Id.; see G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
A public body may, however, approve final terms and execute a collective bargaining 
agreement with a union in executive session, but should promptly disclose the agreement in open 
session following its execution.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2), 21(a)(3). A public body may 
enter executive session under Purpose 2 to "conduct collective bargaining sessions" and under 
Purpose 3 to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." IcL Together, these purposes allow a public body both to discuss 
collective bargaining strategy and to bargain directly with a union in executive session. Id.; 
 see 
Board of Selectmen of Marion v. Labor Relations Commission, 7 Mass. App. Ct. 360 (1979). 
Unlike the language in Purpose 2, Purpose 3 does not does not limit strategy discussions to the 
preparatory stage, rather it broadly allows a body to go into executive session "to discuss 
strategy" with respect to collective bargaining or litigation any time an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the body's bargaining or litigating position and the chair so declares. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Because there are circumstances in which both the bargaining and litigating 
positions of a public body may be detrimentally affected by voting on a final collective 
bargaining agreement in the open, contract approval may occur in executive session if the chair 
makes the appropriate declaration that such circumstances are present. No open session 
ratification is needed. See  Doherty v. School Committee of Boston. 386 Mass. 643 (1982) 
(holding that closed door votes are permissible where a body meets in executive session to 
protect its litigating position). 
Applying these principles here, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. During the Board's August 30, 2011 meeting, the Board entered into executive session 
under Purpose 3 to discuss "collective bargaining with the Clerical, DPW, Dispatcher and Police 
Unions." It was appropriate to meet in executive session under Purpose 3 because the Board 
discussed its strategy with respect to a collective bargaining agreement proposed by certain 
unions. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). According to the minutes of the Board's August 30, 2011 open 
session, the Chair declared in a motion that holding "an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the position of the Town." Because the Chair made this declaration, the Board 
followed the correct procedural steps required by Purpose 3 to discuss and approve the MOU in 
executive session. Id, Once a collective bargaining agreement has been executed, the public 
body should publicly announce the agreement and describe the terms reached in open session. 
We understand that the Board announced the signing of the MOU when it ratified the MOU in 
open session during its March 13, 2012 meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that three out of the five Board members deliberated outside 
of an Open Meeting when they signed the MOU. The Board voted in executive session on 
August 30, 2011 to approve the terms of the MOU. The Clerical Union provided the Town 
Administrator with a written MOU in December 2011, and on December 21, 2011, three Board 
members signed the MOU outside of a meeting. Signing a document after the terms have been 
2 Note, however, that the Open Meeting Law does not require that any topic be discussed in executive session. We 
do not address whether any other law may require a closed-door discussion in this instance. 
3 Ideally, this should occur either during the same meeting or at the public body's next scheduled meeting. 
3 

===PAGE 4===
discussed and approved during a meeting is an administrative task, outside of the definition of 
deliberation.  See OML 2013-4. Thus, there was no Open Meeting Law violation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Gove
rnment 
cc: Carver Board of Selectmen 
Ms. Dawn Padovani 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 
