===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 19, 2019 
OML 2019-152
Patricia Correa, Esq.
First Assistant Town Counsel 
Town of Brookline 
333 Washington Street, 6th Floor 
Brookline, MA 02445
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Correa:
This office received a complaint from Lee Seelwyn on October 22, 2019 alleging that the 
Brookline School Committee (the “School Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the School Committee on September 19 
and the School Committee responded by letter dated October 3.1 In his complaint, Mr. Selwyn 
alleges that, during the process for renaming the Devotion School in Brookline, “young children 
were exploited and manipulated by the Brookline School Committee into supporting the School 
Committee’s and the [Warrant Article] Petitioner’s predetermined outcome.”2 The complaint 
also alleges that the Student Nominations Committee failed to follow the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law.3
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law by the School Committee. The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint alleges that the School Committee engaged in manipulation of the student 
members of the Student Nominations Committee. Even if true, this would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. Because this allegation against the School Committee, even 
if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review it, and
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 Mr. Selwyn also alleges that the renaming process was “secretive and opaque,” and that the School Committee did 
not follow its own selection criteria as the process unfolded because of a “predisposition to name the School for a 
person of African-American ethnicity.” Even if true, these allegations do not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review them. See OML 2013-135; OML Declination 12-22-15 
(Groveland Planning Board).
3 Mr. Selwyn also alleges that Brookline School Department employees acted improperly in the course of their 
supervision of the Student Nominations Committee. However, since the Open Meeting Law only applies to public 
bodies, not municipal employees, we decline to review these allegations. See OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne 
Town Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries).

===PAGE 2===
we offer no opinion on whether any other law was violated. See OML Declination 2-27-2017 
(Massachusetts Public Health Council); OML Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook Planning Board).4
In addition, we find that the Student Nominations Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged because we find that the Student Nominations Committee was not a 
public body as defined by the Open Meeting Law. To determine whether an entity is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, we generally consider three characteristics of all public
bodies:
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of
“public body”; and
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”
Failure to meet any of these three requirements means that the group under consideration 
is not a public body for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-112; OML 2015-46. 
Here, we find that the Student Nominations Committee is not a body empowered to act 
collectively because (1) the Student Nominations Committee’s name recommendations for the 
former Devotion School were not binding on the School Committee, (2) school department staff 
actively supervised the Student Nominations Committee, and (3) the Student Nominations 
Committee ultimately recommended the same 15 names for further consideration that it was 
asked to initially consider. Because the Student Nominations Committee lacked authority to 
make binding recommendations or even to deliberate on its own, we find that it was not 
empowered to act collectively and is not a public body under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2012-65; OML 2011 -42. Since the Student Nominations Committee is not a public body, we 
therefore find that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
School Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
S' 1
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Lee Selwyn
Brookline School Committee
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
