===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 27, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 132 
 
 
Patrick Ahearn 
Town Counsel 
Town of Westwood 
50 Carby Street 
Westwood, MA 02090 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ahearn: 
This office received a complaint from Nada Milosavljevic-Fabrizio on September 29, 
2020, alleging that the Westwood Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 28, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 25, following an extension of time 
granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a 
properly posted meeting.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Board meetings held on June 30 and 
August 18, as well as a transcript of the June 30 meeting and a video recording of the August 18 
meeting.2  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on September 3, 2021.3 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020.  
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on August 18 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5vY3Mcsy6w.  
3 The complainant requested further review from this office on September 29.  Unfortunately, this office closed the 
complaint on October 27 believing that the complainant had not timely requested further review.  This 
administrative error was discovered on September 3, 2021, after speaking with the complainant.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 30 at 7:00 P.M.  The 
notice included nine topics, one of which was “Board Reorganization: Chair, Vice Chair, and 
Secretary.”  Prior to the meeting, Board member David Atkins reached out to member 
Christopher Pfaff to ask if he would nominate Mr. Atkins for Chair.  Mr. Pfaff expressed his 
interest in also becoming chair but ultimately agreed to nominate Mr. Atkins. 
 
The June 30 meeting was held as planned and all members participated remotely.  During 
the meeting, after conducting other business, the Board discussed the reorganization of the 
Board.  Acting Chair Deborah Conant welcomed Robert Gotti to the Board and then asked for 
recommendations for Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary.  Board member William Delay made a 
motion to appoint Ms. Conant as Chair.  This motion did not pass, with three members - David 
Atkins, Robert Gotti and Christopher Pfaff - opposed.  Ms. Conant expressed surprise and 
disappointment stating that she thought it was “customary for the Vice Chair to move up to the 
Chair.”  Mr. Pfaff then nominated Mr. Atkins as Chair, which motion passed by a majority vote 
of three to two.  The Board then appointed Mr. Pfaff as Vice Chair by a majority vote of three to 
two and unanimously voted to appoint Mr. Delay as Secretary.4   
 
The Board held a meeting on August 18 in which all members participated remotely.  
During the meeting, the Board reviewed and discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by 
the complainant at issue here.  Mr. Atkins explained that he spoke with Mr. Pfaff prior to the 
June 30 meeting to express his interest in becoming chair and asked whether Mr. Pfaff would 
nominate him.  Mr. Atkins specifically stated that he did not speak with any other Board 
member.  Mr. Pfaff confirmed that he spoke with Mr. Atkins about the position of Chair stating 
that he was also interested in that position but ultimately agreed to nominate Mr. Atkins.  Mr. 
Gotti stated that he did not speak with either Mr. Atkins or Mr. Pfaff prior to the June 30 
meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
 
4 We note that the minutes of the Board meetings held on June 30 and August 18 failed to record the roll call vote of 
each member.  The Attorney General’s Regulations require that “all votes taken during any meeting in which a 
member participates remotely must be by roll call vote,” even if a vote is unanimous.  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see 
OML 2020-82; OML 2015-145; OML 2013-195.  We recognize that the Board conducted all votes by roll call 
during these two remote meetings, but the minutes of the meetings failed to record a roll call vote.  We remind the 
Board of its obligations under the law. 
   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that three members of the Board deliberated outside of an open 
meeting and discussed the appointment of a new chair.  During the June 30 meeting, the Board 
moved to appoint Ms. Conant as Chair but the motion did not obtain a majority vote.  The Board 
then moved to appoint Mr. Atkins as Chair, which motion passed by majority vote.  The 
complaint asserts that there must have been prior discussion between Mr. Atkins, Mr. Gotti and 
Mr. Pfaff, a quorum, because of the “hurried manner” in which the first motion nominating Ms. 
Conant for Chair was denied and the second motion nominating Mr. Atkins for Chair was made 
and approved.  We have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive 
discussion among public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote 
is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting.  See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.5  Nevertheless, we find that a 
quorum of members did not discuss the reorganization of the Board prior to the June 18 meeting.  
Any communication between Mr. Atkins and Mr. Pfaff did not constitute deliberation because 
those communications only reached two out of the five-member Board, which is not a quorum.  
See OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  Absent specific evidence to the contrary, 
we credit the public body’s version of events that it did not deliberate outside of the June 18 
meeting.  See OML 2021-30; OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Nada Milosavljevic-Fabrizio – By email only:  
Westwood Planning Board c/o Town Planner Abigail McCabe – By email only: 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
