===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL wvw.mass.gov/ago 
December 11, 2017 
OML 2017-189 
Joseph Perry, Chair 
Rowley Board of Selectmen 
139 Main Street 
P.O. Box 275 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Perry: 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Toomey on November 14, alleging 
that the Rowley Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
BOA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 23, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 2. In 
his complaint, Mr. Toomey alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
failing to answer Mr. Toomey's question during the "Citizen Query" section of the meeting, 
and (ii) restricting the duration of Mr. Toomey's public comment. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
To reach this decision, we reviewed Mr. Toomey's complaint and attached documents, your 
response on behalf of the Board, and Mr. Toomey's request for further review. With spoke 
with Mr. Toomey by telephone on December 6. 
The complaint concerns a meeting that took place on October 16. The meeting 
included five minutes of "Citizen Query." Two individuals, one of whom was Mr. Toomey, 
addressed the Board during "Citizen Query." Mr. Toomey addressed a question to the Board, 
and you responded, saying, "We don't take questions." Mr. Toomey spoke about a water 
department personnel matter, and indicates in his complaint that after approximately three 
minutes and 19 seconds, he was "cut off by the Board. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Toomey alleges that the Board violated its policy regarding public comment, 
which he included in the complaint. The policy states that "Citizens may speak for a period 
of time not to exceed approximately five (5) minutes." It appears that while Mr. Toomey 
interprets the policy as permitting an individual to speak for five minutes, the Board interprets 
the policy as permitting five minutes total for public comment. Furthermore, the policy also 
states that "members of the public can use this time to ask a question..." 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation. 
See OML 2012-23.2 The law states that "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Board therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law by limiting 
"Citizen Query" to five minutes or by declining to answer Mr. Toomey's question. The Open 
Meeting Law permits the chair of the public body to decide who can speak at a meeting and 
for how long. Although public participation is entirely within the chair's discretion, we 
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time permits. See OML 
2012-23. While there is disagreement over interpretation of the Board's policy around citizen 
query, we note that the Attorney General only enforces the Open Meeting Law, and does not 
enforce individual public body policies. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Timothy Toomey 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
2 