===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 14, 2018 
OML 2018-68 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Adam J. Costa, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorneys Feodoroff and Costa: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on May 16 alleging that the 
Ashland Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 17; and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 11. The complaint alleges that the Board discussed 
reasonably anticipated topics that were not listed on the meeting notice during its April 11 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed open session minutes from the 
Board's April 4 meeting; the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Board's April 11 
meeting; the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Board's May 9 meeting; and video 
recordings of both the April 4 and April 11 meetings.2 Finally, we spoke with Town Counsel 
Adam Costa by telephone on February 22, 2018. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording for the April 4 meeting is available at http://98.118.96.186/vod/2118-Zoning-Board-Redone-
April-4-17-Medium-vl.mp4; and the video recording for the April 11 meeting is available at 
http;//98.118.96.186/vod/2111 -Zoning-Board-Meeting-April-11 -2017-Medium-v 1 .mp4. 
meeting. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On April 4, the Board held a public hearing pertaining to an 
appeal of a decision issued by the Ashland Building Inspector with respect to the granting of a 
permit for 23 Washington Street. The hearing lasted approximately three hours during which 
numerous people spoke, including the appellants, the Building Inspector, the attorney 
representing the owners of 23 Washington Street, and members of the public. The public 
hearing was then closed and the Board voted. Board members Stuart Siegel and Brian Forestal 
voted to overturn the Building Inspector's decision to issue the permit; Board member Smriti 
Choudhury voted not to overturn the Building Inspector's decision. In order to overturn the 
Building Inspector's decision to issue the permit, a unanimous vote by the Board was required. 
Here, because the vote was not unanimous, the Building Inspector's decision to issue the permit 
was upheld. 
On March 22, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, April 11 at 
7:00 P.M. The notice listed six topics, which included the approval of minutes, a public hearing, 
consideration of three special permits, and staff updates. 
Just after 2 P.M. on April 11, Assistant Town Planner Josh Chase emailed a draft 
decision to the Board. A decision of a board of appeals must be made within one hundred days 
after the date of the filing of an appeal, unless extended by written agreement of the parties. See 
G.L. c. 40 A, § 15. The Board received an extension until April 12. 
The April 11 meeting was held as planned. Chair Philip Jack announced that the 
scheduled hearings could not be heard that evening "due to improper legal notification." The 
Board discussed rescheduling the hearings. Chair Jack then left the meeting, and appointed 
Board member Thomas McNulty as acting Chair. The Board then began to discuss the decision 
that had been drafted and forwarded to them by Assistant Town Planner Chase earlier that day. 
Specifically, this decision encapsulated the Board's discussion and vote at its April 4 meeting 
involving the appeal of a permit issued by the Building Inspector for 23 Washington Street. 
Board members discussed two small changes to the draft which the Assistant Town Planner 
made during the meeting; the Board then signed the decision. Finally, one Board member 
suggested providing legal guidance to members of the public who appeared before the Board. 
The Board decided that was outside of its jurisdiction. 
During a May 9 meeting, the Board reaffirmed the discussion that occurred during its 
April 11 meeting with respect to the draft decision deliberation pertaining to 23 Washington 
Street. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed topics during its April 11 meeting that 
were not listed on the meeting notice, including revisions to a draft decision and the discussion 
about providing legal guidance to members of the public. The notice for the Board's April 11 
meeting included several scheduled hearings. However, due to improper legal notification, the 
Board did not conduct any discussions on the noticed topics. Rather, the Board discussed 
revisions to a draft decision, which summarized a Board discussion and vote from its April 4 
meeting. A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Here, the Board knew on April 4 when it closed the public hearing that a written decision 
encapsulating its discussion and vote from that meeting would thereafter need to be signed by the 
members. Although the draft decision was not provided to the Board until approximately five 
hours before the April 11 meeting, the Board knew, either at the close of the April 4 hearing or 
shortly thereafter, that the decision would need to be signed by April 12. We understand that the 
Board's normal practice is to simply sign decisions without engaging in any discussion. 
However, where, as here, the Board anticipated, 48 hours prior to its meeting, that a decision for 
approval would be before it, the Board should have included the decision as a topic on its 
meeting notice since there is the possibility of discussion of the decision prior to the actual 
signing by the Board. We commend the Board for reposting and considering this discussion 
topic at a later meeting in response to the complaint. 
Finally, the discussion relating to whether the Board could provide legal guidance was an 
unanticipated topic raised by one Board member while waiting for the Assistant Town Planner to 
revise the draft decision. While a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not 
listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, we 
strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the 
meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances 
demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2013-197; OML2011-23. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing the draft decision which was not listed on the meeting notice. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 