===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
December 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 203 
 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq.  
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Samuel Francis on May 22, 2025, alleging that the 
Medway Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 15, 2025, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 5, 2025.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting to create a new policy on public 
comment.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board meeting held on April 1, 2025, as well 
as a video recording of that meeting.1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
 
1 A video recording of the Board meeting held on April 1, 2025, is available at 
https://new.medwaycable.com/internetchannel/show/3897?site=3. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 1, 2025.  The notice listed 
10 topics, one of which was “Policy on Public Comment.”   
 
The April 1, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, Acting Chair 
Susan Alessandri updated the Board on a new policy for public comment.  Specifically, Ms. 
Alessandri stated that, after much discussion with town legal counsel, 20 minutes would be 
allowed for public comment, each member of the public would be allowed to speak for two 
minutes, and the Board would not respond to any comments.  The Board then heard from 
members of the public and did not further discuss or vote on the policy. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
delib
erations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board must have deliberated outside of a properly posted 
mee
ting to create the new policy on public comment because the policy was not previously 
discussed at any meeting and none of the Board members “registered surprise at or had any 
questions or comments about this policy.”  The Board denies that it discussed the public 
comment policy outside of a meeting maintaining that Ms. Alessandri worked with town legal 
counsel to craft the policy.  Individual public officials, such as town legal counsel, who are not 
members of a public body are not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2017-150; OML 
2012-28.2  Additionally, we have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or 
conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is 
insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., OML 2025-15; OML 2023-242; 
OML 2012-59.  Furthermore, we find no evidence that a quorum of the Board discussed the 
policy outside of a meeting and therefore credit the Board’s account of events.  See OML 2016-
141 (absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s version of the facts).  The Acting 
Chair of the Board may discuss a matter of public business within the Board’s jurisdiction 
outside of a posted meeting with town legal counsel where those communications do not involve 
a quorum of a public body.  See OML 2020-170.   
 
To the extent the complaint may be construed as alleging that Ms. Alessandri as Acting 
Chair effectively made decisions that should have been made by the Board as a whole, this 
allegation goes to the authority of individuals versus the Board to take action on particular 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
matters, which is not a matter governed by the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018- 144.  We 
offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by Ms. Alessandri could be a violation of some 
other town bylaw, law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.  See OML 2023-
19.  As the Board did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting, we find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, to the extent the complaint alleges that the Board restricts public comment during 
meetin
gs, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. 
c. 30A § 20(f).  If public participation will be permitted, the chair may determine the method for 
receiving public comment, who may speak or otherwise participate during a meeting, and may 
set limitations on participation.
3  See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-189.  We do, however, 
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances 
permit.  See OML 2019-120; OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Samuel Francis – By email only:   
Medway Library Board of Trustees – By email only: librarytrustees@medwayma.gov 
Medway Town Clerk Stefany Ohannesian – By email only: 
sohannesian@medwayma.gov 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
3 We note that the Supreme Judicial Court recently explained that content-based restrictions on public comment may 
violate the portion of the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights protecting the right to assemble and the right to free 
speech.  See Barron v. Kolenda, 491 Mass. 408 (2023).  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law; we do not review allegations concerning restrictions on public comment. 
