===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 29, 2016 
OML 2016-134 
Jason R. Talerman, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead & Talerman, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 2B 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Talerman: 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Mclntyre, dated June 20, alleging that the 
Easton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 31, and the Board responded 
by letter dated April 4. In his complaint, Mr. Mclntyre alleges that the Board deliberated outside 
of a noticed meeting 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also interviewed former Board member 
Daniel Smith by telephone on September 14, as well as Board members Daniel Murphy and 
Dottie Fulginiti, on September 15 and 16, respectively. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The complaint concerns a gathering that took place at a private 
home on March 22. The purpose of this event was to build support in the community for a ballot 
question that would increase the budget for the Easton School Department. At the time, the 
Board chair was Daniel Murphy. Mr. Murphy attended the March 22 event and spoke in support 
of the ballot question. During Mr. Murphy's remarks, two other Board members, Dottie 
Fulginiti and Daniel Smith, arrived at the house. Mr. Smith was present in the room where Mr. 
Murphy was speaking, while Ms. Fulginiti went into the kitchen. Even though the kitchen is 
open to the living room, Ms. Fulginiti spoke to other people and did not listen to Mr. Mmphy's 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
presentation. Approximately five minutes after Mr. Smith and Ms. Fulginiti arrived, Mr. 
Murphy left the residence. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines a 
"deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction," but explicitly excludes "attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so 
long as the members do not deliberate." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
quorum is the simple majority of the member of a public body. Id, 
Here, the complaint alleges that the presence of a quorum of the Board at the March 22 
event violated the Open Meeting Law. We disagree. The ballot question that was the subject of 
the March 22 meeting was not directly before the Board for consideration. Statements made by 
public body members for political purposes that do not concern matters presently or likely to 
come under consideration by the public body are not communications on public business within 
the jurisdiction of the public body, and we therefore do not consider such communications to 
constitute deliberation. See OML 2014-135.2 While deliberation may occur where a quorum of 
a public body recommends an action in their official capacity as public body members, see OML 
2016-48, that was not the case here. Rather, it is clear from the facts that the three Board 
members at issue attended the private event not as public officials but as private citizens. 
Accordingly, we find that no improper deliberation took place. See OML 2016-119. We note 
further that even if the topic was within the Board's jurisdiction, it appears that there was no 
communication between or among a quorum. Mr. Smith was present in the room where Mr. 
Murphy was speaking, but Ms. Fulginiti was not. While the appearance of a quorum of the 
Board at a private event can create the appearance of improper deliberation, on the facts present 
here, we find that no such deliberation took place. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this detennination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc; Kevin Mclntyre 
Easton Board of Selectmen 
Division of Open Govemment 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 