===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 8, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 77 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Renee Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel, City of Fall River 
 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This letter addresses five complaints from Collin Dias alleging that the Fall River Tax 
Increment Finance Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The First Complaint is dated August 23, 2021, and was filed with this office on November 17, 
2021.  The Second Complaint is dated December 9, 2021, and was filed with this office on 
January 14, 2022.  The Third Complaint is dated December 20, 2021, and was filed with this 
office on January 20, 2022.  The Fourth Complaint is dated January 5, 2022, and was filed with 
this office on March 29, 2022.  The Fifth Complaint is dated February 1, 2022, and was filed 
with this office on March 28, 2022.   
 
The Board responded to the First, Third, and Fifth complaints by separate letters dated 
April 6, 2022, after reviewing those complaints during a meeting on April 5, 2022.  The Board 
did not formally respond to the Second and Fourth complaints.  We understand that the Board’s 
legal counsel spoke with Mr. Dias on prior occasions regarding the complaints and/or the subject 
matter of the complaints.
 1  In reviewing the complaints, we spoke with City Administrator Seth 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must meet 
to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response 
and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body must also send the Attorney 
General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  Id.  If the public body requires 
additional time to resolve the complaint, it may obtain an extension from the Attorney General by submitting a 
written request within 14 business days after receiving the complaint.  Id.  On January 13, 2022, the Board, through 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Aitken, who served as assistant corporation counsel at times relevant to the complaints; emailed 
with assistant corporation counsel Renee Howayeck; and reviewed the responses received on 
April 6, 2022.  We address the complaints as follows. 
 
First and Third Complaints 
 
The First and Third Complaints allege, respectively, that on July 28, 2021, and again on 
December 8, 2021, Mr. Dias requested from the Board minutes of prior Board meetings, and the 
Board failed to respond within 10 days, or at all.  The Board does not dispute that it failed to 
respond to the July 28 request.  The Board asserts that its legal counsel responded to the 
December 8 request on December 19 by stating that the minutes did not yet exist.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days from 
the date a request is received to provide a response.  A public body is only required to produce 
any meeting minutes, whether in draft or approved form, which existed at the time of a request.  
A public body is not required to produce meeting minutes in response to a request that do not 
already exist.  See OML 2020-151.
2  However, if minutes do not yet exist at the time of a 
request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days with an 
explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form.  See OML 
2021-46. 
 
By failin
g to timely respond to two requests for meeting minutes, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  The requested meeting minutes have since been created and provided to 
Mr. Dias.  Therefore, no further remedial action is required. 
 
Second Complaint 
 
The Second Complaint alleges that the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
De
cember 8, 2021, at 8:00 a.m. at Fall River City Hall.  The complaint alleges that City Hall 
does not open to the public until 9:00 a.m. on weekdays, and therefore the meeting was not 
accessible to the public.  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  For a meeting to be truly open to the public, the meeting 
venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting.  See OML 2014-118.  We 
have previously found that a meeting venue was not accessible where the main entrance was 
locked and there was no signage instructing the public how to access the meeting.  See id.   
 
Here, the Board represents that although City Hall normally opens to the public at 9:00 
a.m., the main entrance to the building was unlocked before 8:00 a.m. on December 8, 2021, and 
remained unlocked and accessible to the public for the duration of the Board’s December 8 
 
its legal counsel, requested an extension of time to respond to the first four complaints; however, an extension was 
granted only as to the January 5, 2022, complaint, as the request was untimely as to the first three complaints.   
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting.  Mr. Dias does not assert th at he attempted to attend the Board’s meeting in City Hall 
on the morning of December 8 and was unable to do so; rather, the complaint is based on the 
assertion that City Hall typically does not open to the public until 9:00 a.m.  Absent evidence to 
the contrary, we credit a public body’s explanation of the facts.  See OML 2021-74; OML 2020-
94; OML 2019-132.  We find that City Hall was open and accessible to any members of the 
public who wished to attend the 8:00 a.m. meeting, and the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged in this complaint. 
 
Fourth Complaint 
 
The Fourth Compla
 int alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to the second 
complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 
29.05(5).  The public body must also send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  Id.  There is no dispute that the Board failed to respond 
to the second complaint, and we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in this 
regard. 
 
Fifth Complaint 
 
The Fifth Comp
 laint alleges that Mayor Paul Coogan failed to comply with the 
certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law when he was sworn in to a second term as 
Mayor of Fall River on January 3, thus beginning a new term as a member of the Board, and did 
not sign his Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials until January 27, beyond the 
two-week period set forth in the Open Meeting Law.  There is no allegation that the brief delay 
in signing the Open Meeting Law certification contributed to a lack of transparency or other 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We recently issued a determination on a nearly identical 
complaint pertaining to Mayor Coogan’s role as chair of the Fall River School Committee.  See 
OML 2022-66.  For the reasons stated in that determination, a copy of which is enclosed, we find 
a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the First, Third, Fourth, and Fifth complaints.  We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely,
Carcie benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Collin Dias (via e-mail:
Fall River City Clerk (via e-mail:
Gary Howayeck, Esq. (via email
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
===PAGE 5===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 66  
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Bruce Assad, Esq. 
Law Office of Bruce A. Assad 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on March 11, 2022,
1 alleging that 
Mayor Paul Coogan, Chair of the Fall River School Committee (the “Committee”), violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on January 28, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
February 16.  The complaint alleges that Mayor Coogan failed to comply with the certification 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law when he was sworn in to a second term as Mayor of Fall 
River on January 3, thus beginning a second term as Chair of the Committee, and did not sign his 
Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials until January 28.       
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and 
the request for further review.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 6===
copy of the educational materals prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting
law and its application pursuant to section 19.... The certification shall be evidence that the
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and
the consequences of violating it." G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations
specify that public body members "must sign a new certification upon reelection or
reappointment to the public body." 940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5).
Here, Mayor Coogan completed the Open Meeting Law certification 25 days after being
sworn into a second term of office, slightly beyond the two-week time period set forth in the Law
for completing the certification. We note that the certification had already been completed
before this complaint was filed, and the complaint contains no allegations that Mayor Coogan
violated the Open Meeting Law in the interim due to a lack of awareness of the requirements of
the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law's
certification requirement, and also advise Mr. Dias that filing an Open Meeting Law complaint in
this instance, when the certification had already been completed and there is no suggestion that
the brief delay contributed to diminished transparency in government, unnecessarily consumed
the Committee's and our office's resources without meaningfully advancing the transparency
goals of the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Carie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Collin Dias (via e-mail:
Mayor Paul Coogan, Chair (via email:
Fall River School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2