===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 11, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 107 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Margaret Stancer 
Chair, Pelham School Committee 
stancerm@arps.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Margaret Stancer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Dr. Matteo Pangallo on February 24, 2026,
1 
alleging that the Pelham School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
January 23, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter on February 12. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee 1) discussed a topic not listed on the notice of a meeting 
held on January 22, and 2) failed to include the location of the January 22 meeting on the notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review and attachments, along with 
the notice, minutes, and a recording2 of the January 22 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 16, the Committee posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on January 22 at 6:00 P.M. The location of the meeting was listed as Google 
Meet and included the link to the meeting, meet.google.com. The notice listed one main topic, 
“FY27 Budget Discussion.”  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2026. 
2 A recording of the virtual January 22 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/live/s2_EABJQue8?si=5HkCCdAhOWxf9FkU. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The January 22 meeting was held as planned and all Committee members participated 
remotely. During the meeting, the Committee received a presentation from School 
Superintendent Xiomara Herman on the Fiscal Year 2027 (“FY27”) budget. Dr. Herman 
reviewed the FY27 budget for both the Town of Pelham and the school department. She 
explained that the Town plans to level fund every municipal department, including the school 
department. Dr. Herman highlighted the strong School Choice enrollment and a projected budget 
deficit of $186,000 for Pelham Elementary School. She then presented two options to close the 
budget deficit: Option A, which would utilize additional School Choice funds to bridge the FY27 
deficit, and Option B, which would involve adopting a “Tuition-In” agreement with the Town of 
Amherst and gradually transitioning grade six from Pelham Elementary School to the Amherst 
school system. The Committee discussed the two proposals, with some Committee members 
expressing concerns about the financial situation, some Committee members suggesting potential 
alternatives to address the financial situation, and others expressing gratitude that the financial 
situation was brought to the Committee sooner rather than later. The Committee did not take any 
action on the two proposed options. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice 
must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2025-25; 2015-35; 
OML 2013-39.3 A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic on a meeting 
notice, nor anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See OML 2022-
98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee discussed a topic during the January 22 
meeting that was not listed on the notice, that is, a proposal to move sixth-grade students at 
Pelham Elementary School to the Amherst school system. We acknowledge that the topic was 
not specifically listed on the notice but was discussed during the Committee’s consideration of 
the FY 2027 budget. A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic 
was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2025-25 (finding 
discussion of facilities maintenance service agreement was not anticipated by the Chair within 48 
hours, and that discussion naturally flowed from posted topic “FY25 quarterly budget-update.”); 
see also OML 2024-74; OML 2017-2. Here, we find no evidence that the Chair reasonably 
anticipated discussing the two options to address Pelham Elementary School’s budget deficit 
within 48 hours of the meeting. In fact, the complainant seems to concede this by stating in the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
complaint that “school staff were only informed about [Option B] 4 hours before the meeting.” 
Moreover, the Committee’s consideration of the FY27 budget included a wide range of topics, 
and any number of issues had the potential to arise during the course of the discussion. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require the chair to guess which topics might be raised. See OML 2013-
61. Because we find no evidence that discussion of the topic was reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair within 48 hours of the meeting, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2023-108; OML 2013-61. 
 
 The complaint further alleges that the January 22 meeting notice was insufficient, as it 
“did not include access information” for the virtual meeting. As stated above, the Open Meeting 
Law requires that every notice include, among other requirements, the “place” of the meeting. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). To satisfy the requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a meeting notice 
include the “place” of the meeting, the meeting notice must identify the specific meeting location 
or, if the public will access the meeting remotely, the meeting notice must include clear 
instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. See OML 2021-17; OML 2020-102. We find 
that the notice included the Google Meet link, which was inserted just above the list of 
anticipated topics. We have previously said that meeting notices must include in the notice itself 
the level of detail that the Open Meeting Law requires, without requiring users to navigate to 
separate pages or documents. See OML 2025-129; OML 2025-88. As such, where the January 
22 meeting notice included sufficient information on how to access the remote meeting, we find 
the Committee did not violate the law. 
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the Google Meet link was not “clickable,” we 
have not previously found a violation of the Open Meeting Law where a hyperlink was accurate 
but not active on a meeting notice. See OML 2026-87 (finding paper notice to be sufficient 
where it included zoom address to access meeting but required interested members of the public 
to transcribe the link address and then type it online to gain access to the meeting); OML 2021-
94 (noting that there would be no violation of the Open Meeting Law “where a hyperlink was 
accurate but not active on a meeting notice” and that “where. . . a public body’s official notice 
posting location is a physical bulletin board, it would be impossible for a public body to provide 
active hyperlinks in its meeting notice”). However, we do encourage public bodies to make 
access to remote meetings convenient for the public. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Dr. Matteo Pangallo  
Dr. Xiomara Herman, Superintendent (via email: hermanx@arps.org)  
Pelham Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@pelhamma.gov)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
