===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 11, 2019 
OML 2019-157
Cynthia Amara, Esq.
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Amara:
This office received three complaints from Kristen Auclair on June 6, 2019, alleging that 
the Mendon Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18- 
25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about April 23, 2019, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 13, 2019. All three complaints relate to the 
Board’s April 22, 2019, meeting. The complaints allege 1) that the meeting notice was 
insufficiently detailed, 2) that the Board voted on an item when a vote was not indicated on the 
notice, 3) that the Board limited public comment, 4) that the Board suspended discussion of a 
topic for over an hour to discuss another topic, and 5) that the meeting was not accessible 
because the Board failed to make accommodations for a larger-than-usual crowd.1
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
detailed notice for its April 22 meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the other ways alleged. However, we independently note that the minutes of the April 22 
meeting are insufficiently detailed. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the complaints; 
the Board’s response; the request for further review, including photos of the meeting location the 
Complainant supplied; the minutes of the April 22, 2019, meeting as well as minutes of the 
Board’s November 13, 2017, November 19, 2018, and April 23, 2018, meetings; two Notices of 
Public Hearing posted by the Board to the Mendon municipal website; and the Notice of Meeting 
for the Board’s April 22 meeting posted to the Mendon municipal website. We also
1 The Complainant raises additional allegations in her request for further review. Because these allegations were not 
raised in the original complaint filed with the Board, we decline to review them. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 
2019-84.

===PAGE 2===
communicated with counsel for the Board2, the Chair of the Board, and the Complainant by 
email and phone.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The official notice posting location for Town of Mendon 
public bodies is the Town’s website, http://www.mendonma.gov. On April l3 the Board posted 
to the Town’s website two notices for public hearings to be held on April 22. On April 18 the 
Board posted a Notice of Meeting to the Town’s website. The Board has represented that the 
April 18 Notice of Meeting is the notice of the April 22 meeting for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law.4 The April 18 notice includes the following topic, “7:15PM - Public Hearing - 
Zoning By-laws.”
On April 22 the Board held a meeting at which it conducted a public hearing regarding 
zoning by-law amendments (the “Zoning By-Laws Hearing”). The primary purpose of the 
zoning by-law amendments were to expand the areas of the town in which recreational marijuana 
establishments could operate. After a little under an hour of discussion on the zoning by-laws, 
the Board voted to suspend the Zoning By-Laws Hearing until immediately after a second public 
hearing noticed for that same evening. The second public hearing related to 45-49 Uxbridge 
Road (the “45-49 Uxbridge Hearing”). At the conclusion of the 45-49 Uxbridge Hearing, the 
Board reconvened the Zoning By-Laws Hearing.
According to the minutes of the April 22 meeting, during the Zoning By-Laws Hearing 
the Board discussed two areas of the town to be affected by a zoning by-law change, one 
concerning Route 16 and one concerning Route 140. There were Zoning Articles and Citizen’s 
Petitions addressing each of the two areas. During the Zoning By-Laws Hearing, community 
members brought several concerns to the Board’s attention. In light of these concerns, the Board 
voted to pass over the Zoning Article related to Route 16 and to not support the Route 16 
Citizen’s Petition. At the following Town Meeting, the Route 16 Zoning Article and Citizen’s 
Petition were voted on and did not pass. With regard to the Route 140 Zoning Article and 
Citizen’s Petition, the Board voted to support both at the April 22 meeting.
The April 22 meeting was held at the “old library” in a small area created in part by 
partitions. On the opposite side of the partitions is workspace for town employees. There are 
roughly twenty chairs in the meeting space, with eight of the chairs being situated around the 
conference table at which the Board sits. The remainder of the chairs, roughly twelve, create two 
small seating areas in the space. There is also some standing room in the space. Between 37 to 39 
individuals, including Board members and the Board’s administrative assistant, attended the 
April 22 meeting. According to the Chair, typical attendance for a Board meeting is 
approximately six residents. In discussions with the Chair, he explained that the Board moved to 
continue the Zoning By-Laws Hearing until after the 45-49 Uxbridge Hearing because they 
believed that more attendees were present for the 45-49 Uxbridge Hearing and the Board wanted
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
3 All dates hereafter are in 2019, unless otherwise indicated.
4 The Board references a “legal notice” for the April 22 meeting which was published in the newspaper. This “legal 
notice” may be required under laws governing Public Hearings but is not the official notice for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. The official notice posting location, as the Town of Mendon has represented to our office, is the 
Town’s municipal website. See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3).
2

===PAGE 3===
to create more space for the crowd by allowing individuals who were only there for the 45-49 
Uxbridge Hearing to leave after the conclusion of that hearing. According to the sign-in sheets 
provided by the Board, the crowd was roughly evenly split between the two hearings.
The Complainant was in attendance for at least the first portion of the Zoning By-Laws 
Hearing and was able to see and hear the proceedings. Our office has not received any 
complaints from other members of the public alleging that they were unable to see or hear the 
proceedings.
DISCUSSION
L Notice For the April 22 Meeting Was Insufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently 
detailed when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.5 The Open Meeting Law 
does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of 
a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
The complaint alleges that notice for the April 22 meeting was insufficient because it did 
not indicate that the zoning by-law discussion would relate to recreational marijuana 
establishments. The complaint further alleges that notice for the April 22 meeting was 
insufficient because it did not specify that a vote might be taken. In its response, the Board states 
“that a primary reason for the proposed Zoning By-law amendments set forth in the Newspaper 
Notice was to expand the areas in Town where such recreational marijuana establishments could 
exist.” The Board further states that “[t]he topic of where to allow recreational marijuana 
establishment to be located has been the topic of many Board agendas since the Town previously 
voted to allow such establishments.”
Addressing first the allegation that the notice should have specified that the Board might 
vote on the zoning by-law amendments, we have stated that it is reasonably foreseeable that a 
public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting 
notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice separately indicate the possibility 
of a vote. See OML 2019-36; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. However, we have also recognized 
that there may be a context in which a public body has repeatedly discussed a posted topic over 
the course of several meetings without ever taking action on the topic. In such circumstances, the 
public may not reasonably foresee a vote by the public body on the posted topic at any given
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
meeting without additional detail. In that context, it may be necessary for a public body to 
specifically indicate on its notice that it plans to take action and vote on a particular topic. See 
OML 2017-186; OML 2019-111. The Complainant argues that recreational marijuana 
establishments have “been discussed via public meeting on multiple occasions and there was no 
indication that a decision or rendering was to be submitted on this night. . We find that the 
Board discussed this topic at only three meetings over the course of five months before the April 
22 meeting. At each of these meetings, the Board voted to take some action. Therefore, it was 
reasonably foreseeable that the Board might take action and hold a vote following its discussion 
during the Zoning By-Laws Hearing. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to specify that a vote would be taken.
Nonetheless, we find the notice topic “7:15PM - Public Hearing — Zoning By-laws” to be 
insufficiently detailed. As explained by the Board, the primary purpose for the proposed zoning 
by-law amendments was to expand the areas of the town in which recreational marijuana 
establishments could operate. The notice included no mention of recreational marijuana 
establishments. As such, the meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of the public that 
the Board would be discussing where in town these establishments might be located—a topic 
that was, no doubt, the subject of much public interest. Furthermore, if the anticipated discussion 
related to the amendment of a particular by-law, this should have been included on the notice as 
well. See OML 2018-96. Although, in addition to the meeting notice, the Board separately 
posted notices for the April 22 public hearings, the information contained in these hearing 
notices was not made part of the meeting notice for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. Because 
the meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of the public of the anticipated nature of the 
Board’s discussion, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a 
sufficiently detailed meeting notice. See OML 2019-117.
2. If the Board Limited Public Participation at the April 22 Meeting, It Did Not Violate the
Open Meeting Law By Doing So, Nor Did the Board Violate the Law By Suspending
Discussion of the Zoning By-Laws.
The Complainant alleges that “[a]t 8:05 PM the [Zoning By-Laws Hearing] was closed to 
additional comment by residents, despite several who did not have an opportunity to provide 
comment.” The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(g). Although laws governing public hearings may have requirements with 
regard to public participation, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation. Rather, the Open Meeting Law gives the chair of the public body discretion 
to decide whether to permit public comment, and if so, to set restrictions on public comment. See 
OML 2019-120; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78. Because public participation is at the chair’s 
discretion, the Board, if it did limit public comment, did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
doing so. See OML 2017-181. Although not required under the Law, we do encourage public 
bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit. Id.
Additionally, the Complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
suspending the Zoning By-Laws Hearing until immediately after the 45-49 Uxbridge Hearing. 
We disagree. The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the order in which topics on a meeting 
notice must be discussed. Nor does the Law require that once a discussion begins it must be
4

===PAGE 5===
completed before any other topic may be discussed. See OML 2014-35 (“Once the meeting 
begins, the public body controls its own agenda.”). We therefore find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by suspending the Zoning By-Laws Hearing until after the 45-49 
Uxbridge Hearing.
3. The Board’s April 22 Meeting Was Accessible to the Public.
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open and accessible to 
the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3. Access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. We appreciate the difficulty a 
public body faces in anticipating whether any given meeting will attract a crowd, and 
acknowledge that the circumstances of the April 22 meeting presented a close question. 
Ultimately, we conclude that the April 22 meeting was accessible to members of the public. 
Although it is clear that the meeting room was quite crowded and lacked ample seating, we find 
no evidence that any members of the public were prevented from attending the meeting, or were 
unable to see and hear the discussions at the meeting. The Complainant herself was able to hear 
and see the proceedings of the April 22 meeting, and our office has received no other complaints 
from members of the public who were unable to access the meeting.
Although we find that the meeting was accessible, it is concerning that the meeting room 
provided only 12 seats to members of the public, leaving approximately 20 additional members 
of the public to stand in the limited space that remained. These circumstances could impair the 
ability of members of the public to see and hear the proceedings, although we found no evidence 
that was the case on April 22.6 Furthermore, although we recognize that the Board attempted to 
reduce the size of the crowd by suspending the Zoning By-Laws Hearing until after the 45-49 
Uxbridge Hearing, this measure was taken an hour into the meeting, and it did not address the 
immediate issue of the crowd that was in attendance through roughly half of the meeting. We 
remind the Board of its obligation to hold meetings that are accessible to members of the public, 
and encourage the Board to make accommodations for larger than usual crowds, such as by 
moving its meeting to a larger location or ensuring there is adequate amplification. See OML 
2017-135.
4. The Minutes of the April 22 Meeting Are Insufficiently Detailed.
Though not raised in the complaint, we independently note that the minutes of the April 
22 meeting, and additional meeting minutes we reviewed, are insufficiently detailed. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting
6 There is dispute between the Complainant and the Board as to whether the allowable occupancy load for the 
meeting location is 49 individuals. The allowable occupancy load concerns fire and safety issues, and presumably 
includes the entire room, including work spaces behind partitions. In enforcing the Open Meeting Law, we are 
concerned with whether members of the public can see and hear the discussions of the public body; as such, the 
allowable occupancy load is not determinative.
5

===PAGE 6===
Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2019-136; 
OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. Id. The Board’s minutes do not 
include a summary of the discussions on each subject, but rather are a list of motions made, votes 
taken, names of residents who asked questions, and, at some points, a mention that discussion 
was held, without summarizing the discussion. We recommend that the Board amend the 
minutes of the April 22 meeting to come into compliance with the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its April 22 meeting. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. However, we independently note that 
the minutes of the April 22 meeting are insufficiently detailed and remind the Board of its 
obligation to create and maintain meeting minutes in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kristen Auclair
Mendon Planning Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6
