===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 8, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 20 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Bradford Moir, Esq. 
Law Offices of Moir & Ross 
45 Broad St., Suite 2 
Westford, MA 01085 
 
VIA EMAIL:  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Moir: 
 
This office received a complaint from Russell Fox on May 25, 2021,
1 alleging that the 
Southwick Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 11, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 10.  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.     
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
a quorum of the Committee communicated regarding public business within its jurisdiction 
without first posting notice for a meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also 
reviewed email correspondence pertaining to the discussions at issue 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a nine-member public body; thus, five 
members constitute a quorum.   The complainant, Russell Fox, is a member of the Southwick 
Select Board.  On March 1, the Select Board submitted to the Committee a request for 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2021, unless otherwise stated.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Community Preservation Act funding to pay for a new roof for the Southwick Town Hall.  At a 
meeting of the Committee on March 10, the Committee reviewed the submission and voted to 
deny the funding request on the basis that replacement of the roof was considered maintenance 
and not covered by the Community Preservation Act. 
 
On April 6, Mr. Fox called the Committee’s then-Chair, Christopher Pratt, to request that 
the Committee meet to review what the Select Board believed constituted new information about 
the funding request.  Among the new information was a letter from Town Counsel and 
information from the Massachusetts Cultural Resource Information System, suggesting that the 
roof project constituted “rehabilitation” as opposed to maintenance and that Community 
Preservation Act funds could be used to fund the project if the Committee were to make such a 
recommendation.   
 
Following Mr. Fox’s April 6 phone call to Mr. Pratt, Mr. Pratt emailed each Committee 
member to inform them of the request.  Mr. Pratt forwarded the correspondence from Town 
Counsel about the nature of the project.  Mr. Pratt requested that each Committee member 
respond to him individually as to whether they believe the information constituted new and 
relevant information on the project such that the Committee should hold a meeting to further 
review the request.  Six members out of the nine-member Committee responded to Mr. Pratt that 
they did not believe a meeting, and thus further consideration, was appropriate.  On April 8, Mr. 
Pratt conveyed that outcome via an email to Mr. Fox, on which he copied the members of the 
Committee.  The email stated, in relevant part, as follows: 
 
Russ, 
I am sending this email to inform you of the decision made by 6 out of 9 members 
of the Community Preservation Committee, which is more than enough members 
to constitute a quorum. The other 3 members have not yet responded as of the 
writing of this email. I have shared the information sent by Town Counsel with 
the members and they have decided that a follow-up meeting would not be 
necessary or appropriate.  
 
The April 8 email also summarized the scope of the Committee’s prior review, during two public 
meetings, of the request for funding for the roof project as well as the basis for the Committee’s 
prior decision to reject the request for funding.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to 
such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member 
is expressed.”  Id.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 2020-93.2  A 
public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a 
non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the 
public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. 
Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the 
spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
The Committee asserts that the communications between Mr. Pratt and the other 
Committee members regarding Mr. Fox’s request that the Committee hold a meeting to review 
new information did not constitute “deliberation,” as that term is defined by the Open Meeting 
Law, because 1) the Committee members responded individually to Mr. Pratt, and therefore their 
communications did not reach a quorum, and 2) the communications fell within an exception to 
the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation” for the distribution of a meeting agenda or 
scheduling information.  We reject both of these assertions, and find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  
 
  First, regardless of whether Mr. Pratt individually shared the input of Committee 
members with other members in the course of soliciting each member’s input, at the very least 
the input was conveyed in the April 8 email to Mr. Fox and a quorum of the Committee when 
Mr. Pratt communicated “the decision made by 6 out of 9 members of the Community 
Preservation Committee.”  See OML 2016-18 (“Communication on matters within a body’s 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds.”). Additionally, the process of polling Board members outside of a properly posted 
meeting, as was done here, constitutes a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-160 
(explaining that the public body violated the Open Meeting Law when the chair solicited input 
from each of the members on a proposed plan and then based on that input advised an employee 
on how to carry out the public body’s plan); OML 2016-52; OML 2013-75; OML 2013-76; see 
also G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b).  Discussing and reaching a decision, and then communicating the 
outcome, regarding the Committee’s position on a particular issue within its jurisdiction is 
precisely the type of deliberative action that the Open Meeting Law requires be conducted in an 
open and accessible manner.   
 
Additionally, we disagree that the communications at issue fell within the Open Meeting 
Law’s exception to the definition of “deliberation” for distribution of a meeting agenda or 
scheduling information.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Although the outcome of the Committee’s 
communications was a decision not to schedule a meeting to review and consider new 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
information about the funding request for the roof project, the communications amounted to a 
substantive review of the Select Board’s supplemental submissions and a decision to reject the 
request for reconsideration of the project on its merits.  These are not the types of 
communications that fall within the Open Meeting Law’s exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for the distribution of scheduling information. 
 
Finally, we consider whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, intentional.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  The complainant asserts that the violation was intentional on the basis 
that the Committee’s chair had served in town government for several years.  An intentional 
violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
[the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the 
public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law's requirement or has previously been 
advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Our office has never 
previously found the Committee in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Furthermore, we find 
that the Committee’s chair sincerely, but mistakenly, believed that asking members to respond 
individually so that members were not aware of each other’s response did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We therefore decline to find that the violation was intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Law’s requirements and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Committee, within 
30 days of receipt of this letter, to create meeting minutes capturing the discussions held and 
decisions made through the communications at issue in this determination. Although we 
acknowledge that the makeup of the Committee has changed since the communications at issue 
here, the Committee should create these minutes to the best of its ability, using any means 
available to it, including notes and the recollections of Committee members. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
cc: Russell Fox (via email:  
 Southwick Community Preservation Committee (via email: ) 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
