===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 16, 2016 
OML 2016-21 
John Manning, Chair 
Rowley Board of Water Commissioners 
401 Central Street, P.O. Box 29 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Manning: 
This office received four related complaints filed by MaryBeth Wiser, all dated 
November 12, 2015, alleging that the Rowley Board of Water Commissioners (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were all originally filed 
with the Board on September 28, 2015, and the Board responded by letter dated October 8, 2015. 
In her complaints, Ms. Wiser alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
holding an executive session without a proper statutory purpose; (ii) failing to provide sufficient 
information about an anticipated executive session; and (iii) denying the subject of a Purpose 1 
executive session the right to have the underlying matter discussed in the open.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in most of 
the ways alleged. However, we find that certain portions of the executive session discussion at 
issue were appropriate for executive session. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints; the Board's response; and the request for further review filed with our 
office. We also reviewed the notice and draft open session minutes of a Board meeting held on 
September 11, 2015. Furthermore, we reviewed, in camera, the draft minutes of an executive 
session held on that same date. We reviewed all documentation provided with these filings, 
including e-mail correspondence between the Rowley Town Administrator and the Town's legal 
counsel. Finally, we spoke with former Board Chair Timothy Toomey by telephone on January 
1 In one of her complaints, Ms. Wiser alleges that Chair Toomey took actions that were not within his authority as 
Board Chair. This allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. We therefore 
decline to review it. See OML 2015-171. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney 
General's website: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
11,2016. 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. During the relevant time, Ms. Wiser was employed by the Town 
of Rowley as Water Superintendent. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
September 11, 2015. The notice stated that the Board would discuss the approval of open 
session meeting minutes, and then move into executive session to discuss four topics: (i) the 
approval of past executive session minutes; (ii) "financial rate complaints against department 
spending;" (iii) "[djiscussion relative to the [Board] taking action to address any and all concerns 
relative to the duties and authority of the [Board] to ensure full and relative statutory 
compliance;" and (iv) "to discuss and take necessary action relative to Management Practices of 
department. Contracts Compensatory Time Issues." 
On September 9, 2015, then-Board Chair Timothy Toomey sent Ms. Wiser a letter. This 
letter stated, in part, as follows: 
An executive session is scheduled for Friday September 11, 2015 at 8:30 am at the office 
located [at] 401 Central Street relating to management, contracts, and authorization for 
compensatory time. 
Furthermore, be prepared to provide your own transportation back to your residence, 
hand in keys to all facilities of the Water Department (desks, door and file cabinets) and 
provide computer passwords including email user and passwords to all your computers. 
Also on September 9, 2015, the Town Administrator learned of the anticipated executive 
session discussion and the letter sent to Ms. Wiser, The Town Administrator contacted the 
Town's legal counsel by e-mail for an opinion on the matter. On September 9, 2015, the Town's 
legal counsel replied by e-mail to the Town Administrator. This e-mail stated, in part, as 
follows: 
Given the vague and ambiguous nature of some of the descriptions that have been used in 
the agenda, it is not entirely clear what topics the Water Board will even be discussing. 
As described, [certain items on] the attached agenda do not fall within the scope of what 
can legally be discussed in Executive Session under the OML in my view. As such, I 
would not recommend that the Water Board proceed with such Executive Session 
discussions. 
The Town Administrator forwarded this e-mail to the Board members, also on September 
9, 2015. Ultimately, the Board held the September 11, 2015 meeting as planned. During the 
meeting, Chair Toomey made a motion to enter executive session. Chair Toomey did not 
verbally state what topics would be discussed during the executive session. At that time. Board 
member John Manning stated that he was concerned about the legality of the executive session 
2 Because Mr. Toomey was Board Chair at the time of the events referenced in this letter, we refer to him as "Chair 
Toomey." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and began to read from the attorney's e-mail.3 Chair Toomey stated that the Board would 
proceed with the executive session nonetheless. Ms. Wiser then requested that any executive 
discussion regarding her take place in open session. Chair Toomey denied this request, stating 
that "the Board can schedule that for another time." Ms. Wiser then left the meeting, along with 
Mr. Manning and all members of the public in attendance. 
The remaining two Board members then entered executive session. The minutes of this 
executive session have not yet been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in 
detail. However, we note that the Board discussed four overarching topics: (i) complaints 
regarding the increased budget for the Water Department; (ii) a pending lawsuit against the 
Board; (iii) the balance of power between the Board and the Board of Selectmen; and (iv) the 
need to investigate practices within the Water Department related to its management and the 
authorization of compensatory time. Ultimately, the Board voted during this executive session to 
place Ms. Wiser on paid administrative leave. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The September 11, 2015 Meeting Notice Lacked Sufficient Detail regarding 
Anticipated Discussion Topics and Failed to Include One Such Topic. The Board 
also Failed to Identify the Reasons for the Executive Session Prior to Entering It. 
The Open Meeting Law provides that, "a public body shall post notice of every meeting 
at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the 
public body's discussion will be. See OML 2011-44. To convene in executive session, a public 
body must identify in the notice the specific executive session purpose it intends to invoke to 
justify the executive session, and provide as much detail as possible to inform the public of the 
nature of the executive session discussion without compromising the confidentiality of the 
executive session. See OML 2014-43; OML 2012-76. Before entering executive sessions, the 
chair must also verbally state the purpose for the executive session in the same level of detail. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Here, we find that three of the anticipated executive session discussion topics listed on 
the September 11, 2015 meeting notice were insufficiently specific. Those three topics— 
namely, "financial rate complaints against department spending," "[djiscussion relative to the 
[Board] taking action to address any and all concerns relative to the duties and authority of the 
[Board] to ensure full and relative statutory compliance," and "to discuss and take necessary 
action relative to Management Practices of department. Contracts Compensatory Time Issues"— 
were vague and failed to give a reasonable member of the public an idea as to what the Board 
would be discussing. See Dist. Attorney for Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for conveying in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. Additionally, because you were not the Board Chair at 
the time of the events at issue, we refer to you as "Mr. Manning." 
3 
===PAGE 4===
that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). Chair Toomey knew at the time of 
posting what specific issues would be discussed, and the Board has not provided evidence that 
disclosure of these additional details would defeat the purpose for executive session. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board's failure to describe the anticipated topics in a precise way, 
so as to clearly inform the public what would be under discussion, violated the Open Meeting 
Law. G.L, c. 3OA, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).4 
Additionally, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
disclose on the notice for the September 11, 2015 meeting that it would be discussing pending 
litigation during the executive session on that date. While the name of the litigation matter to be 
discussed may be omitted from the meeting notice if disclosure of that information would 
compromise the purpose for executive session, see OML 2015-44, the Board should still have 
indicated on the meeting notice that it would be discussing a litigation matter during the 
executive session. See OML 2015-54. 
Finally, we find that the Board failed to verbally identify any of the topics to be discussed 
prior to convening in executive session. Such a description of the topics to be discussed is 
required prior to convening in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). This omission also 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-118. 
11. Several of the Topics Discussed during the Board's September 11. 2015 
Executive Session were not appropriate for Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter 
executive session and conduct deliberations outside of the public view for ten specific purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason for an executive session is, "[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in 
writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The 
individual must also be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that involve that 
individual; the right to speak on his or her own behalf; the right to have counsel present to advise 
but not participate; and the right to have an independent record of the meeting made at the 
individual's own expense. Id. If the individual to be discussed during a Purpose 1 executive 
session requests that the discussion instead be held in open session, the public body cannot deny 
this request. Id Another purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to, 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Finally, the Open Meeting Law allows a 
public body to enter executive session to, "investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to 
4 The complaint implies that the Board was obligated to follow the advice contained in the Town attorney's e-mail, 
which was read aloud during the September 11, 2015 meeting. The Board, in response, argues that the attorney 
represented the Board of Selectmen, rather than the Board. We take no position as to who counsel represented. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
consider the filing of criminal complaints." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(5) ("Purpose 5"). An executive 
session convened pursuant to Purpose 5 involves the conversations that would precede the 
formal criminal process in court. See Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, at 10-11, 
available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
The complaint alleges that many of the discussions that took place during the September 
11, 2015 executive session did not fit within any of the ten statutory purposes for an executive 
session. We find that the discussion of pending litigation against the Board was appropriate for 
discussion during an executive session. This discussion was appropriate for executive session 
under Purpose 3. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2015-44. 
The remaining portions of the September 11, 2015 executive session discussion lacked a 
valid executive session purpose. Discussions of the Water Department budget and the Board's 
authority relative to the Board of Selectmen do not fit within any of the ten statutory purposes for 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). While it may have been awkward or otherwise 
uncomfortable to hold these discussions in open session, the law requires such transparency. See 
OML 2011-5. The Board therefore violated the law by discussing these matters in private. 
III. Because the Discussion of Ms. Wiser was Properly Classified as a Purpose 1 
Executive Session, the Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Denying her 
Request to Hold the Discussion in Open Session. 
Here, Ms. Wiser was the subject of an executive session discussion and her request to 
hold this discussion in open session was denied. The Board notified Ms. Wiser by letter 
approximately two days prior to the September 11, 2015 meeting, suggesting that the Board 
intended the September 11, 2015 executive session to be, at least in part, a discussion of her 
discipline or dismissal. In conversation with our office, howeyer. Chair Toomey stated that this 
was never intended to be a Purpose 1 executive session. Instead, Chair Toomey stated that the 
intent of this discussion was to "conduct an investigation," which he believed could bring the 
discussion within the ambit of a Pmpose 5 executive session. See OML 2015-99. However, our 
review of the discussions at issue demonstrates that the discussion concerning Ms. Wiser did not 
involve criminal charges was most properly classified as a discussion of the discipline of an 
employee, as evidenced by the ultimate decision to place her on administrative leave. As such, it 
fell within Pmpose 1, not Purpose 5, and Ms. Wiser was entitled to certain procedural rights, 
including the right to have the discussion held in open session at her request. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). The Board therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by denying Ms. Wiser's request 
to hold the portion of the discussion that involved her in open session. See OML 2013-11. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Furthermore, because the Board failed to follow proper procedure in conducting the portion of 
the September 11, 2015 executive session concerning Ms. Wiser, the Board may not rely upon 
the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold that portion of the executive 
session minutes. However, attorney-client privilege or one or more exemptions under the Public 
Record Law may allow the Committee to withhold the minutes, or a portion thereof, from 
5 
===PAGE 6===
disclosure. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive 
session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law). 
Because the portions of the September 11, 2015 executive session concerning the Water 
Department budget and the Board's authority relative to the Board of Selectmen lacked a proper 
statutory purpose, we order the release to the public of those portions of the executive session 
minutes within ten (10) days of receipt of this letter. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). The Board may 
not withhold this portion of the minutes, based on privilege or any exemption under the Public 
Records Law. See OML 2015-10. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; MaryBeth Wiser 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 