===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 152 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law 
lgoldberg@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Allegra Clark on January 23, 2023, alleging that 
the Amherst Town Council (the “Council”), and specifically its president Lynn Griesemer, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Council on or about December 20, 2022,
1 and you responded on behalf of the Council by 
letter dated January 11, 2023. We understand the complaint to allege that the Council deliberated 
outside of a properly noticed meeting when councilors met with members of the Amherst Police 
Department.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, an addendum to the Council President’s December 19 report, the request for 
further review, and a video recording of the Council’s December 12 meeting.
2 We also 
conducted an interview with Council President Lynn Griesemer and the Town’s attorney.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Council’s December 12 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BfLqi1MHfCE. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council is a thirteen-member public body; 
therefore, seven members constitute a quorum. The Council is charged with exercising “the 
policy leadership and legislative powers of the Town.” Amherst Home Rule Charter, § 2.1(a).  
 
By way of background, the complaint arises from listening sessions at which various 
councilors heard from Amherst police officers about climate and morale within the Town and the 
Police Department as well as a subsequent December 12 Council meeting at which the Council 
discussed its goals for the Town Manager. With respect to the listening sessions, Council 
President Lynn Griesemer, in conjunction with the Town Manager and Chief of Police, 
coordinated listening sessions to take place on November 29, December 1, and December 2. 
President Griesemer and Councilors Ana Devlin-Gauthier and Anika Lopes attended all three 
sessions. In addition, Councilors Mandi Jo Hanneke and Cathy Schoen attended the November 
29 session; Councilors Michele Miller and Andrew Steinberg attended the December 1 session; 
and Councilors Shalini Bahl-Milne, Patricia De Angelis, and Jennifer Taub attended the 
December 2 session. No one session included a quorum of the Council, but in total ten 
councilors—a quorum—attended the sessions. President Griesemer introduced each session, 
describing the purpose of the session as an opportunity for councilors to hear from police 
officers. Aside from brief introductions and expressions of gratitude for the officers taking the 
time to speak to the councilors, the majority of each listening session consisted of police officers 
sharing their feelings and experiences while the councilors in attendance listened. Councilors did 
not discuss during any of the listening sessions any actions the Council might take as a result of 
the listening sessions or the information learned.  
 
The Council posted notice for and held a meeting on December 12. During the meeting 
the Council discussed a draft document titled “Town Council Performance Goals for the Town 
Manager January 1, 2023 – December 31, 2023.” Under section two—Personnel Management—
the draft goals stated in part, “(5) fostering an anti-racist culture throughout all Town 
Departments, focusing first on the guidance in the Town Council’s vote of November 14, 2022 
to begin with the Amherst Police Department.” During discussion of the personnel management 
goals, the Council discussed at length whether to remove the reference to the Police Department. 
During this discussion councilors in favor of removing reference to the Police Department 
explained that they wanted to make clear that fostering an antiracist culture was a goal for all 
town departments and that they did not want to single out the Police Department. It was evident 
from the discussion that the views of some councilors were influenced by what they had heard 
during the listening sessions. Ultimately, the Council did not vote on whether to remove the 
reference to the Police Department.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
del
iberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a). 
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any ma
tter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law includes several 
exceptions to the definition of “meeting,” including the “attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at a public or private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, 
social or other event, so long as the members do not deliberate.” Id. The Law defines 
“deliberation” broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A public 
body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public 
body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2020-160;
 4 McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting 
Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
Although t
he complaint frames the issue as a concern that President Griesemer abused 
her power and authority, we construe the alleged Open Meeting Law violation to be that the 
Council deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting when councilors attended the three 
listening sessions at the Police Department.
5 To begin, we find that a quorum of the Council was 
not present at any one of the listening sessions, although in total a quorum of the Council 
attended the three sessions. We also find no evidence that a quorum of councilors engaged in any 
discussion of business within the Council’s jurisdiction—either serially or simultaneously—at 
the listening sessions or on other occasions prior to the posted December 12 meeting.  
 
The Council asserts that the councilors who attended the listening sessions did not make 
any subst
antive comments during the listening sessions, instead only introducing themselves and 
expressing gratitude to the police officers for sharing their feelings and experiences. The Council 
further asserts that other than these brief remarks, the remainder of the listening sessions 
consisted of police officers sharing their experiences and feelings with the councilors and the 
councilors simply listening. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the Council’s version of 
events and find that the Council did not deliberate outside of a properly noticed meeting. See 
OML 2016-172. Additionally, we note that nothing in the Open Meeting Law prohibits public 
body members from receiving information or attending a presentation that may inform the 
members’ opinions on matters, provided that a quorum of the public body does not deliberate 
outside of a properly noticed meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (excluding from the definition of 
“meeting” “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a 
conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do not 
deliberate.”); OML 2015-31; OML 2021-3; OML 2022-231; see also Revere vs. Massachusetts 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The complaint also alleges that “[t]he Town Council President coached members of the Amherst Police to make 
statements at these meetings to move councilors to vote in a manner sympathetic and favorable to [ President 
Griesemer’s] disposition.” Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law 
where it does not allege that communications occurred between or among a quorum of the Counci l.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Gaming Comm’n, Mass. Super., No. SUCV20143253BLS2 (July 12, 2019)(meetings did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law where a consultant met with groups of less than a quorum of the 
commission to prepare and educate commissioners prior to an upcoming hearing).  
 
 Although we find that the Council did not deliberate during the listening sessions , we 
bri
efly address the Council’s assertion that it could not have possibly deliberated regarding 
issues facing the Police Department because the Council has no direct oversight of the 
department. Even if the Council has no direct oversight or authority over the Police Department, 
it nonetheless has broad authority to set policy and to set the goals for the Town Manager, and its 
jurisdiction is similarly broad. See OML 2023-22 (“We have found that a topic falls outside the 
scope of a body’s jurisdiction where it does not involve the public body’s exercise of 
governmental business, policy, or administration.”); OML 2022-37 (“even if the Board does not 
have ultimate authority to appoint or approve the appointment of the Director of Public Health, a 
discussion of the qualifications and suitability of the candidates for Director of Public Health . . . 
is a discussion that by its nature involves the Board’s exercise of governmental business, policy, 
and administration.”); OML 2020-160.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lynn Griesemer , President, Amherst Town Council (via email: 
GriesemerL@amherstma.gov)  
 Susan Audette, Amherst Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@amherstma.gov) 
Allegra Clark (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
