===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON,  MAS SACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
March 11, 2013 
OML 2013 - 30 
Mark Goldstein 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Fitchburg 
144 Central Street 
Gardner, MA 01440 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldstein: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Alfred P. Guertin, dated 
February 14, 2012, alleging that the Fitchburg Airport Commission (the "Commission") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the 
Commission: 1) failed to "provide adequate notice to the public regarding the nature and purpose 
of the executive session planned for the meeting of Dec. 14, 2011;" 2) failed to provide "written 
48 hour notice to the individual to be discussed in executive session;" 3) failed to provide 
"sufficient detail in the meeting notice about the open meeting topics to be discussed;" 4) 
"manipulated the meeting notice topics to circumvent the law;" and 5) met or deliberated 
"outside of an open meeting where the Commission discussed actions to be taken, collaborated 
on, discussed and approved the content of documents to be presented at the meeting, shared 
opinions and discussed complaints." The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
or about January 9, 2012. The Commission responded through counsel by letter dated January 
24, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide adequate detail in the notice for its December 14, 2011 meeting and by deliberating 
outside of a posted meeting following the December 14, 2011 meeting. We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the remaining allegations. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed January 9, 2012 complaint; the Commission's January 
24, 2012 response; and the February 14, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed 
the notice and minutes for the Commission's December 14, 2011 meeting; a letter from the 
Fitchburg Law Department, dated March 15, 2012; a series of email correspondence between 
===PAGE 2===
members of the Commission and the complainant, dated between December 16, 2011 and 
December 20, 2011, which were provided to our office by the complainant; and documents 
containing written directives to the complainant, provided to our office by the Commission 
following our request. 
FACTS 
The Commission is a five-member public body that oversees the Fitchburg Municipal 
Airport, and consists of Chair Kit Walker, Peter Kettle, Jack Naylor, Joe Poznick, and Steven 
Brousseau. The complainant, Alfred Guertin, is the manager of the Airport. On December 12, 
2011, the Commission posted notice for a December 14, 2011 meeting. The notice included 12 
topics, including topic #8 "Operations" and topic #12 "Executive Session: Yes." Mr. Guertin 
approached Commission Chair Kit Walker on December 13, 2011 to inquire about the nature of 
the executive session. According to Mr. Guertin, Chair Walker explained that the executive 
session was being held to address and resolve management issues. Mr. Guertin then told Chair 
Walker that if the Commission would be discussing him in executive session, the Commission 
must give him 48 hours' notice. According to Mr. Guertin, Chair Walker replied to him that he 
thought that Mr. Guertin was not able to attend the meeting. Mr. Guertin then stated that he 
would attend. 
On December 14, 2011, the Commission convened in open session. The Commission 
opted not to enter executive session during that meeting. When it arrived at item #8 
"Operations" on its agenda, the Commission discussed Mr. Guertin's job performance. The 
minutes state that: 
[a]t this time a Job Performance was given to Manager Fre [sic] Guertin regarding Job 
Performances. Time was given to all parties to read this Job Performance.... During this 
discussion Manager Guertin became upset and stated when asked to answer these Job 
Performances he noted he would have them by this Friday, December 16, 2011 to the 
commission. Comm. Naylor then requested the commission move on to the next item. 
During this discussion, the Commission referred to a two page document distributed by a 
Commission member that included five topics and eleven subtopics regarding "job performance 
issues." 
On December 16, 2011, Commissioner Brousseau sent an email to Mr. Guertin, and 
copied the other members of the Commission. In the email, Commissioner Brusseau asked Mr. 
Guertin for the status of a fuel contract, and asked Mr. Guertin to "bring the Commission up to 
date so that we can quickly decide how to move forward as the contract expires at the end of this 
month and to take advantage of any incentives that would benefit the airports' bottom line. 
Commissioners please chime-in ASAP." Commissioner Poznick replied-all to this email, and 
stated his opinion and recommendations regarding the contract and relocating tanks. He stated 
that he was investigating small stand-alone systems, and wrote that "I'm not sure of the actual 
sizing yet, so I may need feedback from all of you on optimally sizing this as it needs to be 
demand based. As for a self serve site, I'd like staff and commission opinions on where we think 
the best place for this might be located on the field....Let me know what you think." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Commissioner Brousseau then replied-all to Commissioner Poznick's email offering his 
recommendation. Following a few more exchanges, Commissioner Kettle replied-all to offer his 
opinion regarding the location for the tank. Commissioner Poznick replied-all, and updated the 
Commission on his work contacting vendors. 
On December 19, 2011, Chair Walker sent an email to Mr. Guertin, copying the other 
Commission members, writing that the Commission "is issuing Directives for you to accomplish 
with dates and explanations. Please acknowledge receipt of this email with comments and 
questions. Attached please find the list of directives. Also, the Commission would like a 
response to the performance issues presented to you on 12/14/2011. You stated that you would 
respond in writing the next day (12/15/2011)." The Commission states in its January 24, 2012 
letter that "members of the Commission have not met to deliberate or discuss any issues outside 
of public meetings. The documents in question (concerning the list of performance issues) were 
prepared by one commissioner and reviewed by that commissioner with the Chairman of the 
Commission prepatory [sic] to the meeting." The Commission further asserts that the documents 
"were not discussed with any other commissioners until the meeting in open session. The 
documents concerned job performance issues, which the Assistant City Solicitor had advised the 
Chairman, had to be discussed in open session." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in 
addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays...Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time, place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may enter executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes is Purpose 1, 
which states that a public body may enter executive session to "discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public body enters 
executive session under Purpose 1, then it must provide the individual to be discussed with 1) 
written notice 48 hours before the executive session; 2) the right to be present during the 
meeting; 3) the right to speak on his or her own behalf; 4) the right to have counsel or a 
representative present; and 5) the right to make an independent transcript of the meeting. Id. 
A public body may only deliberate during a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." Id. 
1. The Commission did not Fail to Provide Adequate Notice for its December 14, 2011  
Executive Session because it did not Meet in Executive Session.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to "provide adequate notice to the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
public regarding the nature and purpose of the executive session planned for the meeting of Dec. 
14, 2011." The notice for the Commission's December 14, 2011 included a topic listed as 
"Executive Session: Yes." Had the Commission convened an executive session, this topic would 
have been insufficient to provide the public with adequate notice as to the purpose of the 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, the Commission elected not to enter 
executive session, therefore there was no violation. 
2. The Commission was not Required to Provide Notice to the Complainant at Least 48 
Hours Before its December 14, 2011 Meeting.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to provide "written 48 hour notice to 
the individual to be discussed in executive session;" the individual being Mr. Guertin. If a public 
body enters executive session under Purpose 1, it must provide the individual to be discussed in 
the executive session written notice at least 48 hours before the meeting. Here, the Commission 
never entered executive session under Purpose 1. Therefore, it was under no obligation to 
provide Mr. Guertin with written notice of its meeting. Had the Commission entered executive 
session under Purpose 1 to discuss Mr. Guertin, it would have had to provide Mr. Guertin with 
48 hours written notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
3. The Commission Failed to Provide Adequate Notice of the Topics the Chair Reasonably 
Anticipated Would be Discussed at the December 14, 2011 Meeting.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to provide "sufficient detail in the 
meeting notice about the open meeting topics to be discussed." The Commission must post 
notice at least 48 hours before each meeting, and include "a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice for 
the Commission's December 14, 2011 meeting included a topic listed as only as "Operations." It 
was during this portion of the agenda that the Commission discussed Mr. Guertin's job 
performance. This broad category provided no detail to the public as to the nature of a topic that 
was clearly anticipated by the Chair, as he distributed a two-page document at that meeting 
containing performance directives. In its January 24, 2012 letter, the Commission acknowledged 
that it "should have listed on the agenda Airport Manager's Performance, rather than discuss the 
manager's performance under the agenda item of Operations....The Commission has been 
counseled on the Open Meeting Law, procedures, and the necessity to clarify agenda items to 
provide public notification." We trust that the Commission is now aware of its obligations in 
this regard, and will comply with notice specificity requirements going forward. 
4. We find no Evidence that the Commission Manipulated the Meeting Notice for its 
December 14, 2011 Meeting to Circumvent the Law.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission "manipulated the meeting notice topics to 
circumvent the law." Mr. Guertin explains that the Commission shifted its discussion of Mr. 
Guertin's job performance from executive session to the "Operations" portion of the open 
meeting, "intentionally manipulating the meeting notice topics...to circumvent the law 
pertaining to the required 48 hour notice they failed to give Mr. Guertin." As explained above, 
the Commission was not required to give Mr. Guertin written notice of its discussion because it 
was held in open session, however it should have provided additional detail about the topic in its 
4 
===PAGE 5===
public meeting notice. The Commission claims in its January 24, 2012 letter that a "clerical 
error was made by listing 'yes' for an executive session on the agenda," suggesting that it did not 
ever intend to enter executive session during the December 14, 2011 meeting. The Commission 
also states that in the past, it has "discussed the manager's performance under the agenda item 
Operations." The Commission's failure to include Mr. Guertin's performance evaluation in the 
meeting notice was a violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we do not find evidence of 
any attempt to intentionally manipulate the notice to circumvent the law. 
5. The Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating Over Email.  
The complaint alleges that the Commission met or deliberated "outside of an open 
meeting where the Commission discussed actions to be taken, collaborated on, discussed and 
approved the content of documents to be presented at the meeting, shared opinions and discussed 
complaints." The complaint further states that at the December 14, 2011 meeting, "the 
Commission presented Mr. Guertin with a written document listing alleged management issues 
and warning that failure to follow Commission directives would result in his termination. It is 
obvious that this document was discussed and approved prior to the meeting." A "deliberation" 
is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction," and 
a deliberation must occur only during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. The 
Commission states in its January 24, 2012 letter that "members of the Commission have not met 
to deliberate or discuss any issues outside of public meetings. The documents in question 
(concerning the list of performance issues) were prepared by one commissioner and reviewed by 
that commissioner with the Chairman of the Commission prepatory [sic] to the meeting." The 
Commission further asserts that the documents "were not discussed with any other 
commissioners until the meeting in open session. The documents concerned job performance 
issues, which the Assistant City Solicitor had advised the Chairman, had to be discussed in open 
session." We credit the Commission's assertion that a quorum of the Commission members did 
not discuss Mr. Guertin's job performance ahead of the Commission's December 14, 2011 
meeting, and that job performance documents were prepared by two members along with 
counsel. 
The Commission members did, however, discuss matters among a quorum, over email, 
following the Commission's December 14, 2011 meeting. The complainant provided these 
emails to our office as evidence that the Commissioners have a practice of deliberating over 
email, and therefore must have discussed his job performance prior to the December 14, 2011 
meeting. A December 16, 2011 email exchange between all the members of the Commission 
clearly shows discussion on matters within the Commission's jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. Commissioners expressed opinions on matters regarding contracts and tank locations. These 
conversations should have occurred during an open meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide 
adequate notice for topics discussed at its December 14, 2011 meeting, and by deliberating over 
email on December 16, 2011. We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to the remaining allegations. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Sincerel 
athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
ORDER 
We order to the Commission to take the following remedial actions: 
1. Immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Similar future violations of the Open Meeting Law may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation. 
2. Undergo training on the Open Meeting Law, and certify to the Division that every 
member of the Commission has attended that training. The training is to be conducted by 
an attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Law and approved by 
the Division. Alternatively, the Commission members may view the online training 
available at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting .  This 
should occur within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter. 
3. Publicly release and disclose at the Commission's next meeting all emails referenced in 
this letter where the Commission engaged in deliberation in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Fitchburg Airport Commission 
Alfred P. Guertin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
6 