===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 4, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 156 
 
 
Thomas P. Crotty, Esq. 
Thomas P. Crotty & Associates, PLLC 
5 Dover Street, Suite 102 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Crotty: 
 
This office received 14 complaints on August 5, 2020, one complaint on October 6, 2020, 
and three complaints on October 14, 2020, from Amy Singelais alleging that the Fairhaven 
Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first 
14 complaints were originally filed with the Board between June 23 and July 15, and Board 
Chair Peter DeTerra responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 6.2  The 
remaining four complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about August 6 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated August 26.  These 18 complaints 
generally allege that the Board did one or more of the following: failed to discuss certain topics 
listed on a meeting notice, failed to post sufficiently detailed meeting notices, failed to timely 
approve meeting minutes, deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting, discussed complaints 
about individuals during open session rather than in executive session, failed to vote by roll call 
vote, and failed to announce the members of the Board who were participating remotely.  These 
allegations are deemed to have occurred during various Board meetings held on June 11, June 
18, July 9, July 16, July 28 and August 6.   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 The Board argues that these 14 complaints were not properly filed because they were only filed with the Town 
Clerk and not also with the Board.  The complainant maintains that she mailed copies of these complaints to both the 
Town Clerk and to the Board.  Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  For local public bodies, the complainant 
must also file a copy of the complaint with the municipal clerk.  940 CMR 29.05(3).  Because there is no definitive 
evidence contradicting either the complainant’s or the Board’s statements, we consider the complaints to be properly 
filed and review their merits.    
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely approve seven sets of meeting minutes and by failing to conduct roll call votes and 
announce the members who were participating remotely during its June 11 meeting.  We find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  Finally, we 
decline to review allegations related to the sufficiency of the Board’s July 9, July 16, and July 28 
meeting notices for the reasons discussed below.   
 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  
We also reviewed relevant notices and open session minutes of Board meetings held between 
June 11 and September 28, as well as video recordings of the June 11 and August 6 meetings.
3  
Finally, we communicated with the complainant by email on November 16, spoke with you and 
Board member Michael Ristuccia by telephone on November 30, and further communicated with 
you by email on December 1. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a three-member public body; thus, two 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
On June 10 at 10:55 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, 
June 11 at 5:00 P.M.  The place of the meeting was listed as “Remote via Zoom” and provided a 
website address and telephone number to access the meeting.  The notice listed six topics, the 
first of which was Reorganization of the Board of Health – Appointment of Chairperson.  
 
The June 11 meeting was held as planned and Board members Peter DeTerra and 
Michael Ristuccia met in Fairhaven Town Hall, while Vice Chair Michael Silva participated in 
the meeting remotely.  The Board provided the public with real-time access to the meeting via 
Zoom.  The Board reorganized by voting by majority vote to appoint Mr. DeTerra as Chair and 
Mr. Ristuccia as Vice Chair.  The Board then tabled the remaining topics and adjourned. 
 
On June 15 at 3:44 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, 
June 18 at 5:00 P.M.  The place of the meeting was listed as “Remote via Zoom” and provided a 
website address and telephone number to access the meeting.  The notice listed six topics, 
including Invoices/Other Business.  Under the topic of Invoices/Other Business, the notice listed 
five sub-headings, including Town Counsel, Travel, Call Log, Car, and Keys.   
 
The June 18 meeting was held as planned and the Board met in the Banquet Room of the 
Fairhaven Town Hall but provided the public with real-time access to the meeting via Zoom.
4  
 
3 A video recording of the Board’s June 11 meeting is available at: 
https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7292513/videos/207332459; a video recording of the Board’s August 6 
meeting is available at https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7292513/videos/209525818.  
4 There were only two Board members present, Chair Peter DeTerra and Vice Chair Michael Ristuccia, for all of the 
Board’s meetings held between June 18 and July 30 because Michael Silva resigned after the Board’s June 11 
meeting.  Geoffrey Haworth was appointed as a Board member during a July 30 meeting and began attending Board 
meetings on August 6. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
During the topic of “Invoices/Other Business,” the Board suggested that members and Health 
Department staff should not contact town legal counsel until getting permission from the Board 
first; voted to restrict all out-of-town travel for Health Department personnel during the current 
COVID-19 pandemic; and voted to track and log all incoming calls to the Health Department.  
The Board then discussed the availability of a town vehicle for the Health Agent and Health 
Inspector, why the Health Agent did not use the vehicle, that the Health Agent had a medical 
condition that limited her from driving the vehicle, and mileage reimbursement.  The Board also 
discussed whether members should have keys to the filing cabinets and Health office in Town 
Hall.  Daniel Freitas, Chair of the Board of Selectmen, was present at the meeting and stated that 
he had received an inquiry about the town vehicle not being used and advised that the Board of 
Selectmen can assist with any vehicle issues.  Mr. Freitas then raised concerns about a complaint 
against a food establishment that had not been addressed. 
 
On July 7 at 3:34 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, 
July 9 at 5:00 P.M.  The place of the meeting was listed as “Remote via Zoom” and provided a 
website address and telephone number to access the meeting.  The notice listed six topics, 
including Health Agent Report and Invoices/Other Business.  Under the topic of Health Agent 
Report, the notice listed two sub-headings, including COVID-19 Update and a septic system 
approval.  Under the topic of Invoices/Other Business, the notice listed three sub-headings, 
including “Communication,” an executive session for “personnel,” and reconvene executive 
session. 
  
The July 9 meeting was held as planned and the Board met in the Banquet Room of the 
Fairhaven Town Hall but provided the public with real-time access to the meeting via Zoom.  
During the meeting, the Board received a report from the Health Agent regarding the number of 
coronavirus cases in town.  The Board then approved a septic system plan for 6 Saltmarsh Road 
and discussed the lack of communication from the Health Agent to the Board.  Vice Chair 
Ristuccia stated “he would like to create a policy to help staff understand obligations and 
expectations” and suggested all communications should go to the Board first “to assist with clear 
communication through the Board keeping everyone in the loop.”  The Board then voted “that all 
communication of any type between Health Department staff and Selectman/Town 
Administrator go before the Board and the Board will decide how to handle it.”  The Board did 
not convene in executive session. 
 
On July 13 at 9:35 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, 
July 16 at 4:00 P.M.  The place of the meeting was listed as “Remote via Zoom” and provided a 
website address and telephone number to access the meeting.  The notice listed four topics, 
including Health Agent Report, Other Business, and an executive session for “Personnel Matter 
Board of Health/Health Agent.”  Under the topic of Health Agent Report, the notice listed three 
sub-headings, including COVID-19 Update, Dunkin Donuts 277 Bridge Street, and Subway 19 
Plaza Way.  Under the topic of Other Business, the notice listed two sub-headings, including 
Board of Health vacancy and Personnel Matter Board of Health/Health Agent. 
 
The July 16 meeting was held as planned and the Board met in the Banquet Room of the 
Fairhaven Town Hall but provided the public with real-time access to the meeting via Zoom.  
During the meeting, the Board received a report from the Health Agent regarding the number of 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
coronavirus cases in town.  The Board then approved food establishment plans for Dunkin 
Donuts at 277 Bridge Road and Subway at 19 Plaza Way.  Vice Chair Ristuccia announced that 
the Board would hold a joint meeting with the Board of Selectmen on July 30 to discuss the 
vacancy position on the Board.  The Board then asked the Health Agent whether she would like 
to discuss “personal medical matters” in open or executive session; she decided to discuss the 
matters in open session.  The Health Agent’s attorney advised the Board that the Health Agent 
would be taking medical leave beginning July 17 until August 17 and expressed concerns about 
work-related stress for the Health Agent and the possibility of workers compensation or the 
ability to work from home.  The Board did not convene in executive session. 
 
On July 27 at 9:42 A.M., the Board posted notice for an emergency meeting to be held on 
Tuesday, July 28 at 4:00 P.M.  The place of the meeting was listed as “Remote via Zoom” and 
provided a website address and telephone number to access the meeting.  The notice listed six 
topics, including “Hiring of Personnel.” 
 
The July 28 meeting was held as planned and the Board met in the Banquet Room of the 
Fairhaven Town Hall but provided the public with real-time access to the meeting via Zoom.   
During the meeting, the Board met with Sarah Dupont who advised that she was a recent college 
graduate with a master’s degree in Public Health and reviewed her work experience.  The Board 
unanimously voted to hire Ms. Dupont as the Interim Health Agent.  The Board then adjourned 
without discussing any other matters. 
 
On August 3 at 2:25 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Thursday, 
August 6 at 4:00 P.M.  The meeting was to be held remotely via Zoom and provided a website 
address and telephone number to access the meeting.  The notice listed 13 topics, including Open 
Meeting Law Discussion and Complaint Discussion: Health Inspector Daniel Shea.
5 
 
The August 6 meeting was held as planned and the Board met in the Banquet Room of 
the Fairhaven Town Hall but provided the public with real-time access to the meeting via Zoom.  
During the meeting, the Board discussed an open meeting law complaint it had received 
regarding its July 28 meeting, why it felt there was no violation, and voted to have the Interim 
Health Agent respond to the complaint.  The Board then mentioned that it had received 
complaints from members of the public regarding Health Inspector Shea.  Mr. Shea’s attorney 
asked whether the complaints had been sent to Mr. Shea.  After confirming with the Interim 
Health Agent that the complaints had only been sent to the Board, Mr. Shea’s attorney requested 
that the Board not discuss the complaints until Mr. Shea had an opportunity to review them.  The 
Board eventually voted to table further discussion of the complaints until they were provided to 
Mr. Shea.  The Board also briefly discussed whether the Interim Health Agent had authority to 
ask Mr. Shea to stop performing inspections and turn in his keys to the town vehicle.  
 
During an August 24 meeting, the Board approved minutes of meetings held on August 6 
and August 10.  During a September 28 meeting, the Board approved minutes of meetings held 
on May 28, June 11, June 18, July 9, July 16, July 28, July 30, and September 10. 
 
5 Although not raised in the complaints, we note that the notice for a meeting where an Open Meeting Law 
complaint will be discussed should generally include identifying information about the particular complaint to be 
discussed, such as the name of the person who filed the complaint.  See OML 2019-32; OML 2013-82.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Several Complaints Raise Allegations that Do Not Constitute Violations  
of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Two of the complaints allege that the Board violated the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (“HIPAA”) rights of the Health Agent by discussing “personal health 
information” in open session rather than in executive session during a June 18 meeting.  The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if true, the allegations in these two complaints regarding a violation of 
HIPAA would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  As such, we decline to 
review these matters.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School 
Committee).6  We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a 
violation of HIPAA or some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.7   
 
One complaint alleges that Chair DeTerra allowed a member of the Board of Selectmen 
to speak during a June 18 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
allow public participation, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The law permits the Chair of the Board to decide who may speak at 
a meeting and for how long.  See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.  Thus, as it is 
within the Chair’s discretion to allow public participation during a meeting, he did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by allowing the Chair of the Board of Selectmen to comment on topics that 
had been listed on the notice and which the Board itself had been discussing during the June 18 
meeting.   
 
Three complaints allege that the Board did not list certain topics on its June 18 meeting 
notice or on any subsequent meeting notice after having tabled those topics at a June 11 meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law imposes no obligation on chairs of public bodies to place items on a 
meeting agenda, unless a chair anticipates discussing a particular topic.  See OML 2016-68.  In 
fact, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic.  See OML 2015-
73; OML 2014-98; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-23.  Rather, the law requires that a meeting notice 
list all topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Thus, the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by not including topics on a subsequent notice or deciding not to discuss 
such topics at a subsequent meeting after having tabled the same topics at a previous meeting.   
 
Finally, one of the complaints alleges that the Board did not “read the findings to the 
public on the open meeting law violation” or “read the open violation submitted” by a particular 
individual.  The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the 
public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to 
the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  
 
6 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
7 Furthermore, as discussed in Section V below, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss a 
matter in executive session even if it would be permissible to do so. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint 
with a public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the 
public body” and “the public body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 CMR 
29.05(3), (5).  Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, 
or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.  During an August 6 meeting, the Board 
discussed an open meeting law complaint it had received regarding its July 28 meeting and voted 
to have the Interim Health Agent respond to the complaint.  Once a public body has reviewed a 
complaint during a meeting, its decision to simply refer the complaint, rather than discuss its 
substance, is the public body’s prerogative.  See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96.  In addition, the 
Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss “the findings” of any complaint 
that has been resolved by the Attorney General.8  
  
II. We Find that the Board’s June 11 and June 18 Meeting Notices were 
Sufficiently Detailed.  However, We Decline to Review Allegations with 
Respect to the Board’s July 9, July 16, and July 28 Meeting Notices. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.   
 
 Six of the complaint s allege that topics listed on the notices for Board meetings held on 
June 11, June 18, July 9, July 16, and July 28 are insufficiently detailed.  Specifically, two of the 
complaints allege that the Board reorganized on June 11 without that topic being listed on the 
notice.  The first topic listed on the June 11 meeting notice was “Reorganization of the Board of 
Health – Appointment of Chairperson.”  The Board appointed a new chair and vice chair and 
then tabled the remaining topics.  We find that the topic as listed on the notice sufficiently 
identified the discussion that occurred and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.    
Although not raised in a complaint, we find that the Board did not post notice 48 hours prior to 
the June 11 meeting, which was a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
One of the complaints alleges that several topics listed on the June 18 notice were 
insufficiently detailed.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the topics listed under the heading 
of “Invoices/Other Business” were insufficiently detailed.  We have stated that boilerplate topics, 
such as “Old Business” or “New Business,” are too vague to offer the public an adequate 
understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that particular meeting.  See OML 
2016-76; OML 2013-168; OML 2013-14.  If the chair anticipates discussing a topic under “Old 
 
8 On May 21, this office issued a determination resolving an Open Meeting Law complaint that was filed against the 
Board finding that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it discussed a topic that was not listed on 
the notice for the Board’s July 25 meeting because the topic was not anticipated by the chair.  See OML 2020-61. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Business” or “Other Business” more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, then that specific topic 
must be listed in the meeting notice.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see OML 2015-127.  We find that the 
Board did that here as the notice listed five specific topics under “Invoices/Other Business.”  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a 
discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of 
the open session topics on the June 18 meeting notice under “Invoices/Other Business.”  See 
OML 2020-41. 
 
Three of the complaints allege that the notices for the July 9, July 16, and July 28 
meetings are “vague” and do “not state any descriptive information.”  These complaints do not 
identify any specific topics during those meetings that are insufficiently detailed, however.  
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML Declination 3-20-12 
(Wilmington Board of Assessors).  As such, we decline to review these allegations.   
 
Although we do not specifically review these allegations, we advise the Board that to the 
extent that it knows the name of a specific individual to be hired, the identity of a specific 
applicant, the specific type of application to be reviewed, or the address that is the subject of an 
application to be considered by the public body, such information should be included in the 
meeting notice.  See OML 2016-167; OML 2016-90; OML 2015-196; OML 2014-155; OML 
2011-11.  In addition, we have previously said that “personnel” is not a sufficiently specific 
statement of the purpose for an executive session.  See OML 2014-42; OML 2011-9.  At a 
minimum, a public body should state in its notice the statutory purpose that forms the basis for 
the executive session.  Doing so will provide the public with more information about the public 
body’s intended discussion.  See OML 2013-141.  Finally, we note that when a public body does 
not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to that topic, even if it would have been insufficiently detailed had the public body 
proceeded with its deliberation.  See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. 
 
III. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely Approve 
Seven Sets of Meeting Minutes. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, 
whether for open or executive session, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  
 
Six of the complaints allege that the Board failed to timely approve eight sets of minutes 
from meetings held between May 28 and August 6.  The Board was required to approve the 
minutes within the next three public body meetings as that was the later of the two time periods.  
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-111.  Since the Board did not approve minutes of its May 28, 
June 11, June 18, July 9, July 16, July 28 and July 30 meetings until September 28, which was 
between its fifth and eleventh meeting thereafter, and more than 30 days later, we find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve these minutes in a timely manner.  
We find that the Board timely approved minutes of its August 6 meeting where the minutes were 
approved on August 24, which was the second meeting thereafter.  
 
The Board understands that it did not timely approve some of its meeting minutes but 
asserts that the delay was caused when minutes were discovered missing from the Board’s 
computer in late August.9  We remind the Board that the responsibility for complying with the 
Open Meeting Law rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual 
public employees, such as administrative staff.  See OML 2018-105.  We understand the 
demands on a public body with limited staff; however, the Board is still obligated to timely 
approve minutes.  See OML 2018-111; OML 2017-115.  If staff resources are not available to 
create minutes for the Board to approve, then Board members must take on this responsibility to 
ensure compliance with the law.  See OML 2017-115.   
 
IV. We Do Not Find that a Quorum of the Board Deliberated Outside of a 
Properly Posted Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A “meeting” 
is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.   
 
Two complaints allege that Chair DeTerra and Vice Chair Ristuccia, a quorum of the 
Board, deliberated about Board business outside of the June 11 and June 18 meetings.  The 
complaints do not include any specific details regarding improper deliberation but rather suggest 
that Vice Chair Ristuccia must have spoken with Chair DeTerra prior to the June 18 meeting 
because he made certain motions during the meeting prior to the Board discussing any topics.  
Both Chair DeTerra and Vice Chair Ristuccia specifically state that they did not speak with each 
other about any Board business outside of an open meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit the Board’s account of the facts and do not find that a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2020-129; OML 2014-122.   
 
9 We do not decide here whether this would constitute “good cause for further delay” such that the Board could not 
have approved the minutes in a timely manner.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2).  In the circumstances here, by the time the 
Board discovered the discrepancy and possible missing meeting minutes, the Board was already past the required 
time period for approving the minutes within the next three public body meetings. 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
V. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Convene 
in Executive Session on June 18 and August 6.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
Several of the complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing medical information of the Health Agent or complaints against the Health Inspector in 
open session rather than in executive session.  During a June 18 meeting, the Board discussed the 
availability of a town vehicle for the Health Agent, why the Health Agent did not use the vehicle, 
and that the Health Agent had a medical condition that limited her from driving the vehicle.  
During an August 6 meeting, the Board mentioned that it had received complaints from members 
of the public regarding the Health Inspector.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in executive session but 
rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so only for one of the 
enumerated purposes.  One executive session purpose allows a public body to enter executive 
session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  Here, the Board did not discuss the Health Agent’s specific medical 
condition during the June 18 meeting and did not discuss the specific complaints against the 
Health Inspector during the August 6 meeting.  Nevertheless, even if the Board had discussed the 
Health Inspector’s medical condition or specific complaints about the Health Inspector, the 
Board was not required to have such discussions in executive session and the subject of the 
discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Board do so.  See OML 
2019-160; OML 2012-32.  As such, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to meet in executive session.    
 
VI. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law During its June 11 Meeting by 
Failing to Conduct Roll Call Votes and by Failing to Announce the 
Member who was Participating Remotely but Did Not Violate the Law 
During its July 9, July 16, July 28, or August 6 Meetings.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2017-135; 
OML 2016-54. 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,   
§ 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order temporarily suspends the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely.  
The Executive Order relieves a public body from the requirement to hold its meetings in 
locations that are physically accessible to the public only if the public body provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access, including providing public access through telephone, internet 
or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology.  See Executive Order at 
¶ 1.  All other provisions of the law and regulations regarding remote participation remain in 
effect, including the requirement that “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in which a member 
participates remotely must be by roll call vote” and the requirement that “[a]t the start of the 
meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely.”  
940 CMR 29.10(7)(b) and (c).  
 
Seven of the complaints allege that the Board failed to conduct roll call votes and “failed 
to read remote meeting statements” during meetings held on June 11, June 18, July 9, July 16, 
July 28, and August 6.
10  On June 11, the Board held a meeting in which one of the three 
members participated remotely via Zoom.  The chair of the Board did not announce the name of 
the one member who was participating remotely at the beginning of the meeting, and votes taken 
during this meeting were not conducted by roll call vote.  We find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to announce the name of the member who was participating 
remotely and by failing to conduct roll call votes during the June 11 meeting.  See OML 2020-
98; OML 2020-82; OML 2013-112.  We note that, even if a vote is unanimous, the Attorney 
General’s Regulations require that, “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member 
participates remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2015-145.     
 
 
10 It is our understanding that some public bodies in the Town of Fairhaven make an announcement at the beginning 
of a meeting that such meeting is being conducted remotely consistent with the Governor’s Executive Order.  
Neither the Open Meeting Law nor the Executive Order specifically require such a statement.  However, the Open 
Meeting Law does require that the chair inform attendees of any recordings and requires that the chair announce the 
name of any member who is participating remotely.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) (“[a]fter notifying the chair of the 
public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, 
placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.  At the beginning 
of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”); 940 CMR 29.10(7)(b) (“[a]t the start of 
the meeting, the chair shall announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely.”).   
 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
The Board opted to meet in person in the Banquet Room of the Town Hall on June 18, 
July 9, July 16, July 28, and August 6 while providing the public with adequate, alternative 
access to the meetings via a live broadcast on Zoom.  The Board may meet in person without 
providing the public physical access to the meeting location as long as it provides the public with 
adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which it did here.  See OML 2020-100; Executive 
Order at Section (1).  Because no Board members participated remotely in these five meetings, 
the Board was not required to conduct votes by roll call or announce the names of members 
participating remotely.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to conduct votes by roll call or by failing to announce the names of members 
participating remotely during the June 18, July 9, July 16, July 28, and August 6 meetings.  See 
OML 2020-82; OML 2020-98; OML 2016-132; OML 2013-112.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice 48 hours 
prior to the June 11 meeting, failing to timely approve seven sets of meeting minutes, and by 
failing to conduct roll call votes and announce the members who were participating remotely 
during its June 11 meeting.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the 
law, and caution the Board that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       S i n c e r e l y ,  
 
 
 
 
       K e r r y A n n e  K i l c oyne 
       A s s i s t a n t  A t t o r n e y  G e n e r a l  
       D i v i s i o n  o f  O p e n  G o v e r n m e n t  
 
 
cc:   Amy Singelais – By e-mail only:  
 Fairhaven Board of Health – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
