===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 24, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 69 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Wilfredo Lopez Jr. 
Chair, Board of Trustees  
Springfield International Charter School 
160 Joan Street 
Springfield, MA 01129 
 
BOT@sics.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Lopez: 
 
This office received a complaint from Rosara Pellicier on February 17, 2026, alleging 
that the Springfield International Charter School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about December 5, 2025, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 
26, 2025. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to a request for the 
minutes and recording of a meeting the Board held on November 20, 2025, and that the Board 
failed to clarify what it discussed at the meeting, in response to the complainant’s inquiry. The 
complaint further alleges that the Board discussed the complainant in open session without 
notice or procedural safeguards. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
failed to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes. We decline to review the remaining 
allegations because even if true, they would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, draft minutes of the November 20 meeting, and email 
communications between the Board and the complainant. We also communicated with Chair 
Lopez and Rosara Pellicier via email.
1 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On November 20, 2025, the Board held a regularly 
scheduled meeting.2 On November 21, the complainant sent an email to the Board, expressing 
concerns about the meeting held the night before. The complainant requested, among other 
things, “a copy of the recording and/or the official minutes of the board meeting where [the 
complainant’s] name OR personal situation was discussed.” The email also requested “a written 
explanation detailing exactly what was possibly stated about [the complainant],” as well as 
“clarification as to why [the complainant’s] private information was shared without [her] 
consent.” On December 2, Chair Lopez sent an email to the complainant confirming receipt of 
the request and stating that the Board would need “another 2 days to be able to officially respond 
to [the] inquiry.” On December 8, after further follow up, Chair Lopez provided the complainant 
with a copy of the draft minutes of the November 20 meeting. Chair Lopez also stated that the 
complainant had not been mentioned during the meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to a request for 
minutes within 10 days. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
Meeting minutes must be made available within 10 calendar days of the request, inclusive of 
weekends and legal holidays. See OML 2018-93; OML 2013-120, n. 1. If minutes do not yet 
exist at the time of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 
days, explaining that the minutes do not exist in either approved or draft form. See OML 2025-
160; OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71.3 
 
The complainant requested minutes of the November 20 meeting on November 21.  The 
Board was required to respond to that request, even if only to say that the minutes did not yet 
exist, on or before Monday, December 1. Chair Lopez did not acknowledge or otherwise respond 
to the request until December 2. Thus, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the complainant’s request for the November 20 minutes. 
 
II. We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint because they fall 
outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s authority concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law only. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. While the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies 
 
2 Hereinafter, all dates refer to the year 2025, unless stated otherwise. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to provide meeting minutes upon request, no such requirement exists under the Open Meeting 
Law for other records, including recordings of a meeting. See OML 2023-89. A request for the 
recording of a meeting falls under the Public Records Law and is beyond the scope of the Open 
Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review the allegation that the Board failed to provide a 
recording of the November 20 meeting. See id. We offer no opinion on whether the Board may 
have violated some other law, including the Public Records Law.  
 
Finally, we decline to review the allegations that the Board discussed the complainant in 
open session without notice or confidentiality safeguards, or that the Board failed to provide an 
explanation of what was discussed during the November 20 meeting. The Open Meeting Law did 
not require that the Board take special measures prior to discussing the complainant during the 
November 20 meeting where this discussion was held in open session.
4 Nor was the Board 
required to meet in executive session. See OML 2013-19 (“The Open Meeting Law states that a 
public body may meet in executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. . . . However, the 
Open Meeting Law never requires that a public body discuss any matter in executive session.” 
(emphasis in original)); OML 2011-40 (same). Finally, the Open Meeting Law includes no 
requirement that a public body explain its deliberations, only that it create and maintain accurate 
meeting minutes and provide such minutes if requested. See G.L. c. 30A, §22(a), (c). Because 
the above allegations, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review them. See OML Declination 03-27-2026 (Boston City Council); OML 
Declination 5-25-2023 (Westminster Planning Board). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to timely respond to a request for the November 20 meeting minutes. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
        
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
4 When a public body convenes in executive session under “Purpose 1” to discuss an individual, the Open Meeting 
Law provides the individual to be discussed with certain rights including the right to at least 48 hours’ notice, the 
right to be present at the discussion, and the right to speak on their own behalf. G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1)(i)-(iv). 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc:  Ro sara Pellicier (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
