===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 8, 2016 
OML 2016-122 
Kingston Conservation Commission 
c/o Robert Fennessy 
Kingston Town Administrator 
26 Evergreen Street 
Kingston, MA 02364 
Dear Mr. Fennessy: 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Harlow on June 20, alleging that the 
Kingston Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
April 21, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated February May 3. 2 
The complaint alleges that the Commission improperly withheld open and executive session 
meeting minutes in response to a request. 3 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to respond to a request for open session minutes within 10 days; by failing to 
appropriately respond to a request for executive session minutes; and by failing to promptly 
release its February 16, 2016 executive session minutes once the purpose for confidentiality 
had expired. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. 
We also reviewed Mr. Harlow's request for minutes and the Commission's response. 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission meets on a biweekly basis. Pursuant to 
the Town wetlands bylaw, the Commission issued two enforcement orders, concerning two 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The request also asked for audio recordings and emails, which is the basis of a pending appeal to the Supervisor 
of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office, The Open Meeting Law governs requests for 
meeting minutes and for documents used at a meeting of a public body. G.L. c, 30A, § 22. Requests for other 
documents are governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c, 66, § 10. Accordingly, we limit our review to the 
request for minutes, only. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
properties owned by the complainant. The complainant challenged these orders in Plymouth 
Superior Court. On January 22, the Court issued a decision, finding that the orders failed to 
describe a violation of the Town's wetlands bylaw and remanded the matter to the 
Commission for reconsideration. During its February 16 meeting, the Commission convened 
in executive session to discuss the Court's decision and decided not to appeal it. The 
Commission described the topic on the meeting notice as "Enter into Executive Session to 
discuss strategy with respect to litigation regarding Daniel J Harlow, et al v. Kingston 
Conservation Commission because an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the Town[.]" 
On March 12, the complainant sent a letter by mail and email to the Commission 
requesting "all documentation as well as any discussions (i.e.. Conservation Commission 
meeting minutes, both open and executive.. .pertaining to the discussions held" on February 
16 regarding an ongoing litigation matter between the complainant and the Commission, as 
listed on the meeting notice. The open session minutes were drafted on March 23 and 
approved on April 5. The executive session minutes were drafted on March 15 and have not 
yet been approved. Upon receiving the request, the Commission did not undertake a review 
of the executive session minutes to determine whether they could be released.4 Instead, the 
Commission forwarded the request to counsel to handle. 
On March 22, counsel for the Commission sent a response to the complainant's 
request for the executive session minutes, informing him the Commission declined to provide 
the executive session minutes to the complainant, deeming the litigation matter ongoing and 
confidential. Counsel's response did not address the complainant's request for open session 
minutes. As of this date, the Commission has not provided the complainant with a response 
to his request for a copy of the open session minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful pmposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id, The burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-
Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body respond to a request for minutes, 
both open and executive sessions, within 10 days of the request. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (g)(2). 
4 As a practice, the Commission has not reviewed or approved its executive session minutes. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the public body must release any such minutes not covered by an exemption 
within 10 days; provided, however, that if the body has not performed a review of the 
executive session minutes recently, the public body shall perform the review and release the 
nonexempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the public body's next meeting or 
30 days, whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
At the time of the complainant's request on March 12, the minutes for both the open 
and executive sessions of the February 16 meeting had not yet been drafted, although almost a 
month had passed since that meeting. Because the open session minutes did not exist at the 
time of the request, the Commission was not obliged to provide them within 10 days. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) ("[t]he minutes of an open session, if they ex/.s'/... shall be made available 
upon request by any person within 10 days") (emphasis added). But the Commission should 
have sent a response within 10 days. See OML 2016-91.5 Because the Commission has still 
not responded to the complainant's request for open session minutes, we find a violation. 
Although the executive session minutes did not exist at the time of the request, they 
did exist by the time that counsel promptly sent his response 9 days later.6 However, 
counsel's response denying release of the minutes was sent before the Commission undertook 
the requisite review to determine whetheir the minutes could be released. G.L. c, 30A, 
§ 22(g)(2); OML 2013-99. As a practice, the Commission had not conducted a periodic 
review of its executive session minutes.7 G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(g)(1). When a periodic review 
has not been recently conducted, the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to conduct 
this review upon receiving a request for executive session minutes. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(g)(2); 
OML 2016-11. Instead, counsel conducted this review on his own. Accordingly, the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to appropriately respond to a request 
for executive session minutes. 
Additionally, we disagree with the Commission's reasoning for continued 
nondisclosure of the executive session minutes. Although the Commission may decide to 
issue a new enforcement order that comports with the Court's Order and Remand, the 
litigation matter is concluded because the Commission decided not to appeal the Order. See 
OML 2012-91. Therefore, the executive session purpose has expired and the Commission can 
no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law for withholding them from the public. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). The Commission must publicly release the minutes, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or one or more of the exemptions under the Public Records Law apply. Id. 
Furthermore, the executive session minutes remain in draft form. Even if the Commission 
believed that the executive session purpose warranted continued non-disclosure, the 
Commission was obligated to approve final minutes in a timely manner. See OML 2016-57; 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting, 
6 We note that the complainant sent his request on a Saturday, thus the Commission did not receive it until 
Monday, March 14. 
7 We remind the Commission of its obligation in this regard. We have said that a periodic review of executive 
session minutes undertaken every six months is considered a "reasonable interval" between reviews. See OML 
2015-158. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
OML 2012-91. Accordingly, we encourage the Commission to approve them promptly, if it 
has not done so already. 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to 
a request for open session minutes within 10 days; by failing to appropriately respond to a 
request for executive session minutes; and by failing to promptly release its February 16, 2016 
executive session minutes once the puipose for confidentiality had expired. 
We order the Commission to take the following actions: 
(1) Immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements; we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law; 
(2) Provide the complainant with a copy of the open session minutes of the February 
16, 2016 meeting within 10 days of receipt of this letter; and 
(3) Publicly release the executive session minutes of its February 16, 2016 executive 
session meeting. The Commission may continue to withhold or redact portions of 
these minutes if the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions 
under the Public Records Law applies. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: David Harlow 
Jason Talerman, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 