===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 139 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kathleen Degnan, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
degnank@holyoke.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Degnan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Superba on April 11, 2024,
1 alleging that 
the Holyoke City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about March 5, and you responded 
on behalf of the Council by letter dated April 2.2 The complaint alleges that the Council posted 
an insufficient notice for its executive session meeting held on February 6. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, and a notice for the February 6 executive 
session posted to the City of Holyoke’s website.3  
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Council asserts that the complaint was filed with the City Clerk on March 7 and that the Clerk then included 
the complaint as a topic on the notice for the Council’s next meeting which was scheduled for March 19. The 
Complainant has provided an email to our office dated March 6 in which the Complainant explains to the Clerk that 
he had filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the Clerk and the Council President. Because no speci fic 
assertions have been raised as to the timeliness of the complaint or the response, we do not make a formal finding 
here. However, we remind the Complainant and the Council that Open Meeting Law complaints must be filed with 
the public body complained of within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation (with a copy provided to the 
municipal clerk), and that the public body must meet to review the complaint and must respond to the complainant 
within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05. 
3 We note that the official notice posting location for the City that is on record with the Attorney General’s Office is 
a physical location in or on the municipal building where the Clerk’s office is located. In subsequent communication 
with our office, the Complainant noted that the only place he found notice for the February 6 executive session was 
on the City’s website. Because the complaint does not allege that the notice was improperly posted, only that it was 
insufficient, we do not address this issue. However, we remind the Council that a municipality may only have one 
official notice posting location and that it must inform our office if it has adopted its website as its official notice 
posting location. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(5), (2)(c).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
One such purpose is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public 
body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper.”). When convening in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation 
strategy, both the meeting notice and the announcement before entering the executive session 
must identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the executive 
session purpose. See OML 2024-111; OML 2020-47; OML 2016-12; OML 2016-152 (“In prior 
determinations, we have required public bodies to disclose the name of the litigation matter 
under discussion, or to include some description of the litigation issue the body sought to 
discuss.”); OML 2014-50; OML 2012-89.
4 While we generally defer to a public body’s 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for an 
executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if 
challenged. See OML 2024-111; OML 2016-12. 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Council’s February 6 executive session was 
insufficient where it did not identify the specific litigation matter to be discussed in executive 
session, but instead simply stated “Litigation Update.” We agree. The Council has not suggested 
that identifying the litigation matter would have compromised the purpose for the executive 
session. Instead, the Council asserts that the notice was sufficient because it “provided the date, 
the time, [and] the location [of the meeting,] and stated that the meeting was being held in 
Executive Session to discuss a litigation update.” In support of the assertion that its notice was 
sufficient, the Council cites to a superior court case, Amos v. Town of Westford, 2017 Mass. 
Super. LEXIS 199, and asserts that the case stands for the proposition that “there is no violation 
of M.G.L. c. 30A, §2l(a)(3) so long as the notice states the date, the time, the location, and 
mentions that the matter being discussed is litigation,” and further asserts that “[t]he court was 
clear that no greater specificity is required.” Amos is distinguishable from the matter before us 
where the notice at issue in Amos identified the litigation matter to be discussed in executive 
session and was therefore sufficient. See Amos, 2017 Mass. Super. LEXIS 199, *4-5(citing 
OML 2016-152 and OML 2016-21). In the instant case, the litigation matter to be discussed was 
not identified at all and the Council has not asserted that identifying the litigation matter to be 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
discussed would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. Therefore, we find
that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify the litigation matter to be
discussed in executive session on February 6.
We order the Council's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law
and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the
Law. Because the Council failed to provide proper notice to the public of its February 6
executive session, we order the Council to announce at its next open session meeting the specific
litigation matter discussed in executive session on February 6. Additionally, as a result of the
violation, the Council may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to
withhold the minutes of the February 6 executive session. We order the Council to release the
minutes of the February 6 executive session to the public within 30 days of the date of this letter,
and to certify to our office that it has done so. We note, however, that the attorney-client
privilege or one or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law may allow the Council to
withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, from public disclosure. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OMI
2019-10; OML 2018-39; OMIL 2016-121; 2015-193.5
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Tessa R. Murphy-Romboletti, City Council President
(via email:
Stephen Superba (via email:
Brenna Murphy McGee, City Clerk (via email: mcgeeb@holyoke.org)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5 Questions or concerns regarding redactions made pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or the Public Records
Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's office. See OML
2024-119.