===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass .gov/ago 
September 29, 2015 
OML 2015-144 
Richard Bowen, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Wareham 
28 Stockbridge Road 
Scituate, MA 02066 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bowen: 
This office received a complaint from Karl Clemmey on July 31,1 alleging that the 
Wareham Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 9, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by email on July 30.2 In his complaint, Mr. Clemmey alleges that a quorum 
of the Board deliberated privately in the Board office on July 6. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint; the Board's response; and the 
complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. In addition, we spoke by telephone in 
August 2015 with Board members Patrick Tropeano (Chair); Judith Whiteside; and Alan Slavin. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. During the afternoon of July 6, Ms. Whiteside, having recently 
returned from vacation, visited the Board office at Town Hall (the office) to pick up her mail and 
check her Board email account on the office computer. Mr. Slavin then arrived at the office to 
do the same. Ms. Whiteside and Mr. Slavin discussed Ms. Whiteside's vacation for 
approximately ten to fifteen minutes before Chair Tropeano arrived at the office. Chair 
Tropeano immediately sat down to prepare the agenda for the next Board meeting. Chair 
Tropeano was focused on his work and did not engage the other two Board members in 
conversation. The discussion between Mr. Slavin and Ms. Whiteside about vacation continued 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
for approximately ten minutes before Mr. Clemmey entered the office, at which point Ms. 
Whiteside left the office. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge. 376 
Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law 
defines "deliberation," in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. (emphasis added). 
The complainant alleges that because a quorum of the Board was together in the office, 
they must have discussed Board business in private. The Board members deny that their 
conversation was about Board business, contending that they discussed recent vacations only. 
We credit the Board's statement and find no evidence that the three Board members present in 
the Selectmen's office on July 6 improperly deliberated outside of a meeting. The Open Meeting 
Law explicitly recognizes that members of public bodies may interact outside of posted meetings 
so long as their interaction does not concern their official duties. OML 2013-181. Accordingly, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karl Clemmey 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 