===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 238 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian J. O’Toole, Esq. 
Ryan & Boudreau, PC 
Brian@ryanandboudreau.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Toole: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joshua Powers on June 28, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Granby Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 11, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 28. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee posted an insufficiently specific notice for its May 23 meeting and that the 
Committee discussed a particular individual during that meeting without first providing the 
individual with notice that they would be discussed.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its May 23 meeting. We find that the Committee did 
not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the meeting was slanderous and that the Committee acted in a way that could 
subject the Town to litigation. Additionally, in the request for further review the Complainant asserts that some of 
the topics discussed by the Committee during the May 23 meeting fell outside of the Committee’s jurisdiction. We 
decline to review these allegations. First, the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-32; OML 2019-85; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). The Open Meeting Law governs communications “between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Therefore, an allegation 
that a public body discussed matters outside of its jurisdiction, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. Likewise, allegations of slander or that the Committee’s actions could subject the Town to 
litigation fall outside of the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, the Division declines to review allegations raised for 
the first time in a request for further review. See OML 2019-133, n.4.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, the 
notice for the May 23 meeting, and portions of a video recording of the May 23 meeting.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. During the Committee’s May 16 meeting it discussed 
the warrant for an upcoming Special Town Meeting scheduled for June 10. The warrant for the 
Special Town Meeting related to transferring funds to the Fire Department and Ambulance 
Department to cover costs that had exceeded the budgets for these departments. During the May 
16 meeting the Committee discussed that the chair of the Committee and a fellow Committee 
member would meet with the Town Administrator to learn more about why the departments had 
gone over their budgets and who had authorized spending beyond the budgets.  
 
On May 21 the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 23. The notice 
listed the following two topics for discussion: “FY-25 Budget” and “ANY OTHER BUSINESS.” 
All but approximately ten minutes of the Committee’s May 23 meeting—which lasted for 
approximately one and a half hours—was devoted to discussing the operations and budgets of 
the Fire Department and Ambulance Department, the Fire Chief’s performance with respect to 
managing these departments, in particular their budgets, and other related topics. The Committee 
also discussed what it would recommend to the Town regarding the Special Town Meeting 
warrant related to transferring funds to the two departments.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, notice be posted for 
“eve
ry meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include the date, time, and place of the meeting, 
as well as a list of topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, 
reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance, will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.4 Public bodies must list topics for discussion with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A notice need not include every detail about an anticipated 
discussion, but the Law requires that notice topics include “sufficient specificity” so that the 
public can decide whether to attend the meeting and observe the discussions regarding the 
specific topics anticipated for discussion. See OML 2023-108; OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7. 
When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we 
do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we 
review what was discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific. See 
OML 2015-101. 
 
We have ex
plained that where a public body will review all articles for a Town Meeting 
warrant or the entire budget, it is not required to identify all warrant articles or all budgetary 
 
3 A video recording of the Committee’s May 23 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uDVchIf9x0. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
items on its meeting notice. See OML  2017-185; OML 2012-83. However, where a public body 
anticipates discussing specific Town Meeting warrant articles or budgetary items, it must 
specifically list those articles or items on the meeting notice. See OML 2013-8; OML 2011-7; 
OML 2024-27 (finding that the finance committee posted insufficient notice and explaining that 
where “heads of Town departments attended certain meetings to present on their budgets[,] it is 
unlikely that this was unplanned and unanticipated,” and further explaining that “over time as the 
Committee voted to approve or support budgets and warrant articles it is less and less likely that 
the Committee anticipated discussing” the warrant or budget as a whole); see also OML 2021-
121 (“[T]he requirement . . . that meeting notices include a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting necessarily requires the Chair, or any 
individual delegated to create the meeting notice, to make some reasonable effort to ascertain 
what [will be discussed] . . . and include sufficient detail about those topics on the notice for the 
meeting.” (emphasis in original)). 
 
The c
omplaint alleges that the notice topic “FY-25 Budget” was insufficient to inform the 
public that the Committee would discuss the Fire Department, and the Committee acknowledges 
that the notice “most likely violated the [Open Meeting Law].” We find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its May 23 
meeting where the notice did not reasonably advise the public that the Committee would discuss 
the Fire Department and Ambulance Department budgets, the Fire Chief’s management of these 
budgets, and the Special Town Meeting warrant proposing to transfer funds to the two 
departments.  
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the notices post
 ed online for each of 
the Committee’s eleven meetings held prior to the May 23 meeting included the same or nearly 
the same list of topics for discussion as did the notice at issue here. We do not make a formal 
finding regarding the sufficiency of these notices but note that they too were likely insufficient 
for the same reasons as explained above. See OML 2021-121 (the chair or other individual 
responsible for creating the meeting notice must make some reasonable effort to ascertain what 
will be discussed at the meeting); OML 2023-199 (“Generic notice topics do not satisfy the 
requirement of specificity.”); OML 2024-27 (“over time as the Committee voted to approve or 
support budgets and warrant articles it is less and less likely that the Committee anticipated 
discussing” the warrant or budget as a whole.). 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that duri
 ng the May 23 meeting the Committee discussed a 
specific individual without providing that individual with notice that they would be discussed at 
the meeting. To the extent the individual was discussed during the May 23 meeting, we find no 
violation where the May 23 meeting was held in open session and the Open Meeting Law does 
not require direct notice be given to an individual unless that individual will be discussed in 
executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). See OML 2016-70; OML 2017-
12. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its May 23 meeting. We find that the Committee 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Because a video 
recording of the May 23 meeting is available to the public online and because the warrant articles 
that were the subject of the May 23 discussion passed during the June 10 Special Town Meeting, 
we do not order additional remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Granby Finance Committee (via email: cleonard@granby-ma.gov)  
Katherine A. Kelly-Regan, Granby Town Clerk (via email: kathykr@granbyma.org) 
Joshua Powers (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
