===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 6, 2017 
OML 2017-138 
Terri Guarino, Health Agent 
Bourne Board of Health 
24 Perry Avenue 
Buzzards Bay, MA 02532 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Guarino: 
This office received a complaint from Gary Maloney, Jr., dated August 3, alleging that 
the Bourne Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 1, and the Board responded by 
letter dated June 20. In his complaint, Mr. Maloney alleges that the Board added a non-
emergency topic to a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the original notice of a Board 
meeting held on May 31, as well as a revised version of that notice. Finally, we spoke with the 
Bourne health agent by telephone on August 29.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On May 26, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on May 31 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed several topics, but it did not mention any anticipated 
votes on potential health code violations. Over the ensuing weekend, which was Memorial Day 
weekend, a diner unexpectedly opened in town without obtaining a food license from the Board 
and without completing a preoperational health and safety inspection. While the Board members 
generally knew that the diner would be opening in the future, the Board members did not 
anticipate it opening during Memorial Day weekend. 
On May 31—the day of the Board's meeting—the Board posted a revised notice at 4:25 
P.M. This revised notice added the following anticipated topic: "Talk of the Town Diner— 
' Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Discuss and possible vote on violation of 105 CMR 590.000 and failure to obtain Board of 
Health Food License prior to opening new food establishment." The Board held the May 31 
meeting as planned and voted to issue a fine of $100.00 against the diner. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. Further, the list of topics must have 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting 
notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, however, 
we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper notice can be 
given to the public. See OML 2017-51; OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13.3 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
the diner during the May 31 meeting, as it had not been listed on the meeting notice earlier than 
the day of the meeting. In its response, the Board stated that no member anticipated discussing 
the issue of the diner at the time the notice was posted, as the diner opening over the holiday 
weekend was unexpected. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's 
version of the facts. See OML 2016-141. We therefore find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by discussing the diner during its May 31 meeting. See OML 2017-126. 
Furthermore, we commend the Board's effort to add the topic to the meeting notice as soon as it 
became apparent that the Board would need to discuss the topic. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gary Maloney, Jr. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 