===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
March 6, 2024  
 
       OML 2024 – 38 
 
 
North Brookfield Planning Board 
c/o Chair William King 
215 North Main Street 
North Brookfield, MA 01535 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. King: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jonathan Viner on January 5, 2023, alleging that 
the North Brookfield Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 19, 2022, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 19, 2023.1  The complaint 
alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting, voted by secret ballot 
during a meeting held on September 21, 2022, meeting, and created insufficient minutes of the 
September 21, 2022, meeting.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we resolved this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it voted by secret ballot 
during the September 21, 2022, meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review, and the Board’s supplemental response dated February 22, 2024.  In addition, we 
reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held on August 17, 2022, and 
September 21, 2022.   
 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
During a meeting held on August 17, 2022, the Board held a public hearing with respect 
to a request for a special permit for a retail firearms business on Elm Street.  After hearing from 
the applicant and members of the public, the Board continued the public hearing to September 
21, 2022. 
 
The Board met on September 21, 2022, and opened the public hearing pertaining to the 
special permit request for a retail firearms business on Elm Street.  After hearing from the 
applicant again and members of the public, the Board closed the public hearing and discussed the 
special permit request.  Chair William King then summarized the information received by the 
Board, including that the proposed use for the property qualified as a permitted use after a 
special permit is issued by the Board; the proposed use did not create any new non-conformities; 
the proposal appeared contrary to state law as determined by a 2003 Appeals Court decision; and 
at least four abutters and neighbors stated that the proposal was detrimental to the residential 
neighborhood.  Board Member John Tripp “made a motion to move the special permit and have 
it be by paper ballot.”  The Board voted by paper ballot but then immediately thereafter read 
aloud the results of the vote, which was all five members not in favor of the special permit.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I.  We Find that the Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Meeting But Did 
Vote By Secret Ballot During the September 21, 2022, Meeting in 
Violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.   
 
The complaint asserts that the Board must have deliberated about the special permit 
outside of the September 21, 2022, meeting because there was no further discussion about the 
permit after the Chair read a prepared summary of issues with respect to the permit request.  We 
have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among public 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support 
the i
nference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 2017-125; 
OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.2  Here, the Chair maintains that he created the summary 
independently and the Board “had no previous knowledge” of the summary.  The Board further 
denies that it discussed the special permit request outside of a meeting explaining that any 
information received prior to the September 21, 2022, meeting was from Town legal counsel and 
was not discussed by the Board.  Where legal counsel is not a member of the Board and thus not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law, any communications from legal counsel could have been 
circulated to a quorum of the Board and such communication would not have constituted 
deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-231.  Absent specific 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board’s version of events that it did not deliberate outside 
of the September 21, 2022, meeting.  See OML 2021-30; OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.  We 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The complaint also all
 eges that the Board voted by secret ballot during the September 21, 
2022, meeting.  After hearing from the applicant and members of the public, the Board closed 
the public hearing and discussed the special permit request.  Board Member Tripp “made a 
motion to move the special permit and have it be by paper ballot.”  The Board then voted by 
paper ballot but thereafter read aloud the results of the vote, which was all five members not in 
favor of the special permit.  The Open Meeting Law explicitly prohibits votes taken by secret 
ballot.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b); OML 2016-121; OML 2015-145.  As such, we find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly voting on the special permit by secret 
ballot.  However, its subsequent action of reading aloud the results of the vote remedied this 
violation and therefore we order no further remedial action.  See OML 2015-145.  
 
II.  We Find that the Minutes of the September 21, 2022, Meeting are Sufficient. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the September 21, 2022, meeting are inaccurate 
and insufficiently specific as they fail to include “important, relevant statements by the Board.”  
We have reviewed the minutes of the meeting held on September 21, 2022, and note that the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
minutes include the date, time and place of the meeting, the members present, and a summary of 
the discussion on each topic, as well as the decisions made and actions taken.  A public body is 
not required to capture every comment made during a meeting in order to substantially comply 
with the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-4; OML 2019-136.  
We find that the minutes adequately capture the substance of the discussions that occurred so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have an 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2020-113.   
 
We take this opportunity to advise the Board of the Attorney General’s recommendations 
as to be
st practices for drafting meeting minutes.  In particular, when summarizing discussions, 
we encourage public bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions whenever possible.  
Where significant debate on a matter occurs and it is clear that one or more members of the body 
and/or the public disagree with the decision ultimately taken by the public body, public bodies 
should note the opposing viewpoints in the meeting minutes.  Although it is not necessary to 
record the comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where 
there are many speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual speaks at 
some length or is the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and his 
or her comments should be identified in the minutes.  See OML 2014-108; OML 2013-47; OML 
2012-29.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
taking a vote by secret ballot during the September 21, 2022, meeting but remedied this action by 
reading aloud the results of the vote.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Jonathan Viner – By email only:  
North Brookfield Town Clerk – By email only: townclerk@northbrookfield.net  
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 