===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
January 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 1 
 
 
Gregory Hanley 
Town Administrator 
Town of Holbrook  
50 North Franklin Street 
Holbrook, MA 02343 
 
By email only: GHanley@holbrookmassachusetts.us 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Hanley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Katherine Connolly on March 4, 2022, alleging 
that the Holbrook Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 21, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 10.  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to 
properly convene in executive session on January 12 and failed to conduct interviews for the 
position of Assistant to the Town Administrator in open session. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly convene in 
executive session on January 12.  We find that the Board did not violate the law in the other way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the notices, and open and executive session minutes, of the Board meetings held 
on January 12 and February 2, the notice and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on 
February 9, and a video recording of the meeting held on January 12.
2  In addition, we spoke 
with you by telephone on December 14.3 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s January 12 meeting is available at http://reflect-
holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/2952?channel=1. 
3 For purpose of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Town Administrator is responsible for overseeing and 
retaining all department heads under his authority, including recommending appointments and 
terminations.  As part of the search process for a new assistant, Town Administrator Gregory 
Hanley gathered specific individuals together and created a committee to assist him in reviewing 
applications and interviewing candidates.  The committee included a member of the Board, the 
prior assistant to the Town Administrator, and an individual with experience in human resources.   
 
On January 10 at 4:07 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 
12 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed nine topics, including an Executive Session “Pursuant to 
M.G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(2) To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel (Town Accountant, Assistant to the Town Administrator).”  
 
The January 12 meeting was held as planned and Board Vice Chair Pamela Campanella 
called the meeting to order at 6:03 P.M.  Vice Chair Campanella then stated that she would allow 
a resident to make a statement even though a public comment period was not included on the 
notice.  Two citizens spoke about a recall petition currently circulating against one member of 
the Board.  Discussions became heated and Vice Chair Campanella asked the residents to sit 
down.  Vice Chair Campanella then stated that the Board would convene in executive session,  
Board Member William Watkins moved to convene in executive session but did not state any 
specific purpose, and the Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive 
session. 
 
The Board has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session, therefore we do 
not recount their content in detail here.  However, we note that, during the executive session, the 
Board discussed possible contract terms and then engaged in actual contract negotiations with 
final candidates for the positions of Town Accountant and Assistant to the Town Administrator.  
The Board then reconvened in open session and voted to approve a three-year contract with a 
specific individual for the position of Assistant to the Town Administrator. 
 
During a meeting held on February 2, the Board convened in executive session pursuant 
to Purpose 2 to discuss additional contract terms for the position of Assistant to the Town 
Administrator.  During a meeting held on February 9, the Board voted in open session to appoint 
Kara Nyman as Assistant to the Town Administrator. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).   
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
I. The Board Failed to Properly Convene in Executive Session on January 12. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to follow proper procedure when it convened 
in executive session on January 12.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for 
any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and 
the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
4   
 
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
ses
sion, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice.  See OML 2016-
72.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Vice Chair failed to announce the specific purpose for the 
exe
cutive session and whether the Board would reconvene in open session after the conclusion of 
the executive session.  The Board admits that “the ensuing disorderly chain of events” that 
occurred between Board members and residents “disrupted the normal order of business and the 
Board erred for failure to state the purpose of the posted Executive Session and for failure to 
state whether the Board would be coming back into open session.”  There is no indication that 
the Board intended to withhold information from the public as the notice provided the specific 
statutory citation of the executive session it planned to convene under and identified the 
individual nonunion personnel that was the subject of the executive session.  Nevertheless, we 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to publicly state the purpose for 
the executive session and failing to inform the public that it would reconvene in open session 
after the executive session.   
  
II. We Find that Interviews for the Position of Assist
 ant to the Town Administrator 
were Conducted by a Committee Created by the Town Administrator which was 
not Subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the hiring process for the position of Assistant to the 
Town A
dministrator was conducted in private and not in an open session.  The Open Meeting 
Law only applies to public bodies.  A “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law is any 
“multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  In Connelly, the Court held that where an 
individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he has the 
sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., 409 Mass. at 
235.   
 
We find that the committee created by Town Administrator Hanley falls within the 
Connel
ly exception.  Even though the Board had final appointing authority, the Town 
Administrator had the sole authority to review and recommend a candidate for the position of 
Assistant to the Town Administrator.  Because the committee was created by an individual 
public official to advise that official on a matter he had sole authority to decide, we find that it is 
not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-131; OML 2017-38.  
Therefore, the committee was not subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus not required to post 
notice or maintain minutes of its meetings. 
 
Finally, we note that the Board meetings held on January 12 and February 2 were 
proper
ly convened in executive session as the discussions during both meetings pertained to 
contract negotiations as the Board specifically discussed terms for a new Assistant to the Town 
Administrator, and therefore fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2.  See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (Purpose 2 allows a public body to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel”); OML 2015-10.  While a public body may agree on 
terms with individual nonunion personnel in executive session, the final vote to execute such 
agreements must be taken by the public body in open session, which the Board did on January 12 
and then again on February 9.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2); OML 2015-184; OML 2013-195; 
OML 2011-56; OML 2011-44; OML 2011-28. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow proper procedure when it convened in executive session on January 12.  We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Katherine Connolly – By e- mail only:  
Holbrook Select Board c/o Chair Daniel Lee – By email only: 
DLee@holbrookmassachusetts.us 
 Holbrook Town Clerk – By e-mail only: town_clerk@holbrookmassachusetts.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
