===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 68 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Johanna Schnneider, Esq. 
Hemenway & Barnes LLP 
jschnneider@hembar.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Schnneider: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Dylan Sanders of Sugarman, Rogers, 
Barshak & Cohen on October 4, 2022,
1 alleging that the Martha’s Vineyard Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on or about July 20, and you responded on behalf of the 
Commission by letter dated August 8. The complaint alleges that the Commission met in 
executive session on July 7 without first convening in open session, announcing the purpose for 
the executive session, and voting by roll call to enter executive session. The complaint also 
alleges that the Commission discussed matters not appropriate for executive session.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to convene in open session to announce the purpose for the executive session and to vote 
by roll call to enter executive session. Additionally, although not raised in the complaint, we find 
that the minutes for the July 7 executive session are insufficient. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission’s response, the request for 
further review, and the notice and minutes for the Commission’s July 7 executive session 
meeting. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 To the extent the complaint asserts that the Commission was required to hold a new public hearing before 
modifying its August 2021 decision as part of a settlement agreement, we decline to review this allegation as the 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 -25, 
not with other laws that may govern public hearings. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. In A ugust of 2021, the Commission issued a decision 
approving certain modifications to the Harbor View Hotel in Edgartown (the “Hotel”). In 
September of 2021, the Hotel appealed the Commission’s decision in Dukes County Superior 
Court. Harbor View Hotel Owner LLC v. Martha’s Vineyard Comm’n, No. 2174CV00044 
(Mass. Super. filed Sep. 14, 2021). Thereafter, the Commission and the Hotel entered into 
negotiations to resolve the matter. 
 
The
 Commission’s official notice posting location is its website, 
http://www.mvcommission.org. The Commission posted notice to its website for a remote 
meeting to be held on July 7 at 6:00 p.m. The notice listed the location of the meeting as “Online 
– Zoom” but did not include any access information nor any instructions for obtaining access 
information. The notice included one topic, “1) Executive Session to review modified Harbor 
View DRI 614-M7 decision” and did not indicate that an open session would be held. Finally, 
the notice stated that there was “No Public Zoom Info.” 
 
On July 7 the Commission convened in executive session at 6:00 p.m. The minutes of the 
July 7 executive session have been released to the public. The minutes reflect that the 
Commission would convene in executive session “to review the modified DRI 614-M7 Harbor 
View Modifications Decision”; that the Commission would not return to open session; that two 
members joined the meeting late; and that the Commission voted to approve the modified 
decision. The minutes include no summary of the discussions held during the almost hour-long 
meeting.   
 
Although the minutes of the July 7 meeting do not summarize the discussions held during 
the executive session, the Commission has represented that “the purpose of the Commission’s 
July 7, 2022 executive session was to discuss and vote on a modified decision that formed the 
basis of the settlement of the [l]itigation and was incorporated into the [l]itigation parties’ 
Agreement for Judgment submitted to the Court.”  
 
On July 14, the Commission and the Hotel filed an Agreement for Judgment in the Dukes 
County Superior Court. The Agreement attached a revised version of the Commission’s August 
2021 decision and asked, in part, that the court “enter a judgment and an order that [the] revised 
decision . . . shall replace the [August 2021 decision].”  
 
 On July 20, the Complainant, on behalf of several abutters, filed an Emergency Motion to 
Intervene and Set Aside the Entry of Judgment. The Emergency Motion asked the court to set 
aside the judgment, arguing that the Commission did not have jurisdiction over the Hotel’s 
application at the time it agreed to revise its August 2021 decision, and that the Commission’s 
decision to revise the August 2021 decision was made in violation of the Open Meeting Law 
where the Commission did not follow the proper executive session convening procedures and the 
topic did not fall within any of the ten executive session purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law. After a hearing, the court denied the emergency motion on July 20 and noted that, 
among other things, the “Commission has inherent authority to make the limited modifications 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that it did in order to settle.” Har bor View Hotel, No. 2174CV00044 (Mass. Super. Jul. 20, 
2022).  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and that meetings be open to members of the public unless a lawful executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. If the public will be required to access a 
meeting remotely via adequate, alternative means,3 the meeting notice must include clear 
instructions for accessing the meeting remotely.  
 
A public body may enter executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumer
ated in the Open Meeting Law; however, the public body must first take several 
procedural steps in open session prior to convening in executive session. First, the chair of the 
public body must announce the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may 
be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the 
reason for doing so was proper or improper”). This same level of detail regarding the purpose for 
the executive session must also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
OML 2018-80.4 Next, a majority of members of the body must vote by roll call to go into 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b). Finally, the chair must announce whether the public 
body will reconvene in open session or if the body will adjourn the meeting from executive 
session. Id. 
 
When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the proc
 edural 
requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list “open session” on the 
meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a 
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2019-
160. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend 
and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. 
 
One permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 
3”). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that 
is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere 
 
3 “Adequate, alternative means” may include, without limitation, providing public access through telephone, 
internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to clearly 
follow the proceedings of the public body in real time. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to i nvoke Purpose 3. See Powers v. Freetown-Lakeville 
Reg’l Sch. Dist. Comm., 392 Mass. 656, 659 (1984); Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 
386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982).  
 
The
 complaint alleges that the Commission failed to hold an open session prior to 
convening in executive session on July 7 and, therefore, failed to publicly announce the purpose 
for the executive session or publicly vote to enter executive session. The Commission asserts that 
it took all required procedural steps as outlined in G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) in open session and that 
the Chair “explained in open session that the purpose of the meeting was to enter into executive 
session to discuss the pending litigation involving the Harbor View Hotel and in connection 
therewith review a proposed modified decision.” The Commission does not assert that the Chair 
declared that holding the discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the 
Commission’s negotiating position.  
 
Despite the Commission’s assertions, we find that where the notice for the July 7 
execut
ive session failed to advise the public that an open session would take place prior to the 
executive session and did not include any public access information for the remote meeting, the 
portion of the meeting during which the Commission asserts it undertook the required convening 
procedures was not open and accessible to the public. The public has a right to witness these 
procedural steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the executive session. See 
OML 2019-160. Therefore, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to first convene in open session to announce the purpose for the executive session and to 
vote by roll call to enter executive session. Therefore, the July 7 executive session was not 
properly held. 
 
Furthermore, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the executive session 
topic
 listed on the notice and the announcement prior to convening in executive session were 
insufficient. The topic “Executive Session to review modified Harbor View DRI 614-M7 
decision” was insufficient to inform the public that the Commission would convene in executive 
session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy. See OML 2013-55 (“Although the notice 
topics as listed might have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting 
attendees, they were potentially unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the regular 
matters before the Board.”).  
 
Where w
e find that the July 7 executive session was not properly held in the first instance 
because the Commission failed to first convene in open session, we do not additionally address 
whether the discussions held were appropriate for executive session under Purpose 3.    
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we find tha
 t the minutes of the July 7 
executive session are wholly insufficient where they do not summarize any of the discussions 
held during the almost hour-long meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (emphasis 
added). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurre
d. See OML 2022-189 (finding executive session minutes insufficient and explaining that 
a public body “may not . . . choose to create insufficient meeting minutes as a means to protect 
information that it believes might be exempt from disclosure”); OML 2022-195; OML 2015-55.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by improperly convening in executive session on July 7. Additionally, we find that the 
minutes for the July 7 executive session are insufficient. We order the Commission’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We also order the Commission to amend the 
minutes in accordance with the guidance provided above and to release the revised minutes to 
the public. Within 30 days, the Commission must certify to our office that it has complied with 
this order.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joan Malkin, Chair, Martha’s Vineyard Commission c/o Adam Turner, Executive 
Director (via email: turner@mvcommission.org) 
Dylan Sanders, Esq. (via e-mail ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
