===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 21, 2016 
OML 2016-80 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney George Hams on March I,1 
alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about January 26, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated February 
3. Lhe complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to a request for 
executive session minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
in the manner alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Committee's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further 
review. We also reviewed correspondence between the parties concerning Mr. Hams' 
request for minutes. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 10, the complainant sent an email to 
Committee Chair Grieco requesting a copy of the executive session minutes for Committee 
meetings held on September 24, 2012 and March 11, 2013. The Committee had previously 
released these minutes to the public and thus did not need to undertake a review to 
t 4 o , , , 
determine their confidentiality. Having received no response, the complainant filed this 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 However, the Committee took this opportunity to review the March 11, 2013 executive session minutes, 
which had been released subject to redactions. Following its review on January 11, the Committee decided 
to retain those redactions. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
complaint on January 25. The next day, Chair Grieco sent the requested minutes to the 
complainant. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Upon request by 
any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion thereof, 
the public body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and must 
release any such minutes not covered by an exemption. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
Because the Committee did not respond to the complainant's January 10 request for 
executive session minutes until 16 days later, on January 26, we find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law for failing to make these minutes available within 10 days 
of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
The Committee was advised by the Attorney General previously that it must 
respond to requests for executive session minutes within 10 days.4 See OML 2016-36,5 In 
that decision, issued on March 15, we found that the Committee violated the law by failing 
to respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. Because the decision 
was issued over a month after this complaint was filed with the Committee, we decline to 
find that the violation is intentional. However, we again note our serious concerns about 
the Committee's commitment to complying with the law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond 
to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
4 Additionally, in another decision, OML 2014-105, we found that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to conduct a review of executive session minutes within 30 days of a request. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: George Harris, Esq. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 