===PAGE 1===
1 
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
March 12, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 34 
 
Kirk Baker 
Rowley Town Planner 
39 Central Street 
Rowley, MA 01969 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Baker: 
This office received a complaints from Jodith Stoddard on May 8, 2020, alleging that 
the Rowley Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 14, and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 27.  In the 
complaint, Ms. Stoddard alleges that following the Board’s February 12 meeting, the Board 
members remained in the meeting room talking for approximately one hour.      
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also spoke 
with the Town Planner2 by telephone.    
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held a meeting on February 12, beginning at 
7:30 P.M. and adjourning at approximately 7:55 P.M.  The February 12 meeting was held in a 
room in the Town Hall Annex building with large windows such that activity in the room is 
visible from the outside.  Following the conclusion of the meeting, the Board members in 
attendance at the meeting remained in the meeting room until approximately 8:30 P.M., 
engaged in personal conversation and social pleasantries.     
 
DISCUSSION   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public unless an executive 
session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  The law defines a “meeting” as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  A “deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of 
the public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that approximately an hour after the February 12 meeting 
ended, Ms. Stoddard drove past the Annex building and saw that the Board members will still 
in the meeting room, sitting at the table in their seats.  Ms. Stoddard does not specifically 
allege in her complaint that the Board members were discussing Board business during that 
time.  The Board acknowledges that a quorum of its members remained in the meeting room 
after the meeting concluded but asserts that the Board members were engaged in personal 
conversation and social pleasantries, and did not discuss any matters of Board business.  The 
Board also disputes the length of time the Board members remained in the meeting room, 
noting that the timestamp for when the Town Planner locked and alarmed the building 
demonstrates they vacated the building within approximately a half hour of the meeting 
adjourning.  Although the Board denies that any deliberation occurred after the meeting had 
adjourned, the Board acknowledges that remaining in the meeting room for an extended 
period of time after a meeting has adjourned could give an appearance of improper 
deliberation outside of public view, and the Board has committed to vacating the meeting 
premises more promptly in the future.   
 
Although there is no dispute that a quorum of the Board remained in the meeting room 
engaged in discussion outside of public view for some period of time following the 
adjournment of the February 12 meeting, we find no evidence that the Board discussed Board 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
business during that time.  See OML 2019-52.  Accordingly, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jodith Stoddard (via e-mail:  
 Rowley Planning Board (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
