===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 9, 2014 
OML 2014 - 65 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Galvin & Galvin 
10 Enterprise St., Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332-3315 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Pecevich (the complainant), dated March 
27, 2014, alleging that the Marshfield Board of Public Works (the Board) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. This complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
February 10, 2014, and you responded by letter dated February 24, 2014.1 The complaint 
specifically alleges that the Board failed to post adequate notice for a meeting and that weather 
conditions impeded the ability of the public to attend the meeting. The complaint additionally 
alleges that the place of the meeting was not accessible to persons with disabilities. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the February 10, 2014 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's February 24, 2014 response; and the complaint filed with this office, dated 
March 27, 2014. We also reviewed the notice posted for the Board's meeting on January 21, 
2014 and the minutes of the Board's July 12, 2010 and July 26, 2010 meetings. In addition, we 
reviewed National Weather Service reports for January 21, 2014. Finally, we spoke by 
telephone with counsel for the Board in April 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk's office is located. The Board did not violate the law in the other 
ways alleged. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Marshfield Town Clerk posted notice for the 
Board's January 21, 2014 meeting on January 16, 2014 at 4:48 P.M outside the Clerk's office. 
' For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 Historical weather reports are available online through the National Climatic Data Center at: 
http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/ 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The bulletin board on which notices are posted is within the Town Hall but in an area not visible 
by or accessible to the public at all hours. The Town Clerk posted the same notice for the same 
meeting to the Town's website at 4:30 P.M. on January 16, 2014. A sign at the entrance to Town 
Hall, which is visible to the public at all hours, states that all notices of meetings of public bodies 
are available on the Town's website. 
Since the date that the Attorney General's Office issued regulations allowing such action, 
the Town has operated under the belief that it notified this office of its election of the Town 
website as its alternative posting location for all meeting notices. This office has no record of 
ever receiving such notice, however. On April 30, 2014, in order to rectify this deficiency, the 
Town of Marshfield notified our office that it had been utilizing its website as an alternative 
posting location and that it would continue to do so in the future. 
On January 21, 2014, the Board met according to its posted notice despite the National 
Weather Service's issuance of a blizzard warning for the coastal areas of the South Shore, 
including Marshfield. The complainant attended this meeting in the Department of Public Works 
Conference Room. The Conference Room is on the second floor of Marshfield Town Hall. 
Members of the public with disabilities can access the second floor by means of an operational 
vertical wheelchair lift operable by a rider. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the municipal clerk post notice of meetings in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which 
the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such notice is not conspicuously visible to 
the public during hours when the clerk's office is closed, such notice shall also be made available 
through one if the alternative methods approved by the Attorney General under 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b). A description of such alternative method, sufficient to allow members of the public 
to obtain notice through such method, shall be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the 
municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. 940 CMR 29.03(1). The Attorney 
General has determined that posting meeting notices to a municipal website provides effective 
notice to the public. 940 CMR 29.03(2). Adoption of an alternative posting location requires 
notice to this office. 940 CMR. 29.03(1 )(c). 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board's January 21, 2014 meeting was not 
posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk's office is located. We agree, albeit with the acknowledgment that 
the Town was operating under the mistaken belief that it had adopted an alternative posting 
location. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the bulletin board outside the 
clerk's office was not conspicuously visible to the public at all hours. If the Town had notified 
this office of its use of the municipal website, however, the notice at issue in this complaint 
would have been properly posted. The Town complied with all the requirements for utilizing an 
alternative posting location with the exception of the mandated notice to this office. 
Furthermore, the Town has since rectified this procedural deficiency by formally notifying this 
office of its use of an alternative posting location. Accordingly, we order no further action. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that weather conditions impeded the ability of the public to 
attend the Board's January 21, 2014 meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not mandate any 
action by a public body in the face of inclement weather, leaving the decision about whether to 
cancel a meeting to the discretion of the public body. We therefore do not find that the Board's 
failure to cancel this meeting violated the Law. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the January 21, 2014 meeting location was not 
accessible to persons with disabilities. The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a 
public body must be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the 
opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. In addition, for a 
meeting to be truly "open to the public" it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons 
with disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings of 
public bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities 
Act). According to the Civil Rights Division of this Office, because the second floor conference 
room is accessible by a vertical lift in operable condition and does not also require the assistance 
of a staff person for use, the second floor conference room meets the minimum requirements of 
the ADA.J We therefore find no violation of the Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours. The Board did 
not violate the law in the other ways alleged. Because the Board took appropriate remedial 
action in response to the complaint, we order no further relief. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints which may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact this 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Marshfield Board of Public Works 
Joseph Pecevich 
3 The Civil Rights Division enforces federal and state laws protecting the rights of individuals with disabilities, 
including Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Massachusetts Public Accommodation Law, 
M.G.L. c. 272, s. 92A, 98, and 92A, and the Massachusetts Equal Rights Act, M.G.L. c. 93, s.103. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 