===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
August 24, 2012 
OML 2012 - 82 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
County Counsel 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Barnstable County Commissioners 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Mr. Eric Bibler, dated August 
19, 2011, alleging that the Barnstable County Commissioners (the "Commissioners") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the 
Commissioners "entered into Executive Session with representatives of the Cape and Vineyard 
Electric Cooperative (CVEC), to shield their deliberations from public view." The complaint 
additionally alleges that the Commissioners "did not formally state, or record in their minutes, 
the names of the people whom the Commissioners would allow to participate in the deliberations 
of the Executive Session, including representatives from [CVEC] and their general counsel." 
The complaint was first filed with the Commissioners on June 23, 2011. The Commissioners 
responded by letter on July 27, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by meeting in executive session on May 25, 2011. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the June 23, 2011 complaint filed with the Commissioners; the Commissioner's July 
27, 2011 letter responding to the complaint; and the August 19, 2011 complaint filed with our 
office. We also reviewed the meeting notice and executive session minutes from the 
Commissioners' May 25, 2011 meeting. Finally, we reviewed minutes from the CVEC 
Governing Board's March 17, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
The Barnstable County Commissioners comprise a three-member public body that 
oversees the Barnstable County government. The CVEC was formed out of a strategic planning 
===PAGE 2===
process commissioned and undertaken by the Cape Light Compact (CLC). The CVEC was 
organized in 2007 with three members: CLC, Barnstable County and the Town of Barnstable. 
The CVEC's long term goal is to develop electric generation projects or contracts to stabilize 
electric rates for all CLC customers. The CLC does not have the authority to develop electric 
generation projects. The CVEC Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. The 
Commissioners represent Barnstable County as a member of the CVEC. 
In October 2010, the CVEC applied for a special permit to construct twin 410-foot wind 
turbines in the Town of Brewster. On February 16, 2011, the Brewster Planning Board 
effectively denied the special permit request by a 3-3-1 vote. On March 17, 2011, the CVEC's 
Board voted 8-2-2 to appeal the special permit denial to the Department of Public Utilities. That 
appeal has not been filed yet. 
At the Commissioners' May 25, 2011 meeting, the Commissioners voted unanimously to 
enter executive session "to discuss pending litigation strategy for Brewster Wind pursuant to 
M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3)." During this executive session, the Commissioners were 
briefed by representatives of the CVEC on the status of its appeal of the special permit denial to 
the Department of Public Utilities. Because the executive session minutes have not yet been 
publicly released, we do not recount their content here. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(h), 21. A public body may enter executive, or closed, session for any 
of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a 
majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of 
each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)—(b). 
Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Id. 
Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is Purpose 3, Ito] discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). In order for the discussion to be appropriate under this 
purpose, litigation must be pending or clearly or imminently threatened. See Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30. 1  
The Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting Law on May 25, 2011 by entering 
into executive session, pursuant to Purpose 3, to discuss litigation strategy with representatives 
of the CVEC. Following the Brewster Planning Board's denial of the CVEC's request for a 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
special permit, the CVEC Board of Directors met on March 17, 2011 and voted to appeal the 
special permit denial to the Department of Public Utilities. The appeal process within the 
Department of Public Utilities is an adversarial process and can be similar to complex, multi-
party civil litigation because certain parties may intervene to oppose the appeal and the subject 
matter is often highly technical and specialized. $ee 22 CMR § 1.00. 
The Commissioners met in executive session on May 25, 2011 with representatives of the 
CVEC to discuss this appeal. Because the CVEC Board had voted to pursue the appeal, 
litigation was "clearly or imminently threatened." It was therefore appropriate for the 
Commissioners to meet in executive session with the CVEC to discuss litigation strategy for the 
appeal because they represent one of the three members of the CVEC, and therefore had a 
litigation position to protect. 
It is true that, as of the date of this letter, the CVEC has not filed an appeal of the 
Brewster Planning Board's decision with the Department of Public Utilities. It is also true that 
the terms "clearly or imminently threatened" usually suggest that litigation following a strategy 
discussion in executive session will follow within a matter of days or weeks, not months. 
However, in this case, the CVEC Board has taken an affirmative step toward bringing such 
litigation by voting to pursue it. And although the CVEC has not filed the appeal, it has been 
meeting to plan litigation strategy for what is a complex, technical and adversarial process. We 
therefore find that the litigation is real and not hypothetical. 
The complaint also alleges that the Commissioners "did not formally state, or record in 
their minutes, the names of the people whom the Commissioners would allow to participate in 
the deliberations of the Executive Session, including representatives from [CVEC] and their 
general counsel." The executive session minutes for the Commissioners' May 25, 2011 
executive session meeting do, in fact, include a full list of names and titles of the non-
Commissioners who participated in the meeting. Therefore, we find this allegation to be without 
merit. Additionally, we note that while public bodies must publicly state the purpose for an 
executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called, there is no requirement that they provide the public 
with the names of those individuals and entities with whom they are meeting in executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Furthermore, public bodies are only required to list in the 
minutes those public body "members present or absent" during the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a). However, they may be required to include information about non-member attendees in the 
executive session minutes if such information is relevant to the "summary of the discussions" 
that they must create. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation during its May 25, 2011 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Jonat an Sclarsic 
As istant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Eric Bibler, Save Our Seashore 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 