===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 16, 2018 
OML 2018-150
Adam J. Costa, Esq.
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Costa:
This office received a complaint from Robert Ebersole on June 1 alleging that the 
Lunenburg Sewer Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on May 11 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated May 31. The complaint alleges that, on 
May 8, Commission members improperly deliberated by email on Commission business outside 
of a noticed meeting.2
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes from, the 
Commission’s May 8 and May 29 meetings; a video recording of the May 8 meeting3; and the 
May 8 email correspondences between Commission Member Carl Luck, Business Manager 
Barbara Lefebvre, and Commission Member Joan Pease.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 In his June 1 complaint filed with this office, the complainant additionally alleges that the Commission deliberated 
on May 4 by email outside of a meeting. We decline to review this allegation because it was not included in a 
complaint to the Commission and the Commission has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).
3 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n3Ys_YMR7jQ.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.
On May 4, the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 8 at 6:30 P.M. 
The topics listed on the notice included three scheduled appearances: David Brambila to discuss 
the Crossroads Plaza; John Londa, Director of Facilities & Grounds for Lunenburg Schools, to 
discuss a request for a waiver; and Pat Cotton of Weston & Sampson to discuss a communication 
from the Department of Environmental Protection. The notice also included topics relating to 
Town Meeting, DPW systems update, policy changes for certain public hearings, grease tap 
regulation compliance, an open meeting law complaint, business manager report, and members’ 
input for future meetings.
On May 8 at 10:39 A.M., Commission member Carl Luck sent an email to Business 
Manager Barbara Lefebvre. Ms. Lefebvre is not a member of the Commission. The email said, 
in pertinent part, “I would like to share these thoughts/concems with you so you can bring them 
into any deliberation by the Commission. In fact, I would encourage you to make the members 
aware of them before any votes are taken.” The email included Mr. Luck’s opinion on most of 
the topics listed on the notice for the May 8 meeting. Ms. Lefebvre then forwarded Mr. Luck’s 
email to Commission member Joan Pease and DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz. Unbeknownst to 
Ms. Lefebvre, Mr. Luck had earlier shared his thoughts on the noticed topics with Commission 
member John Reynolds. At approximately 12:30 P.M. on May 8, Mr. Luck sent an email to Ms. 
Lefebvre informing her that she had unintentionally violated the Open Meeting Law by 
forwarding his email to Ms. Pease and suggested that she make the emails public.
The May 8 meeting was held as planned. The Commission discussed each noticed topic 
and Ms. Pease read into the record each of Mr. Luck’s comments on the noticed topics that were 
contained in his May 8 email. The email was disclosed during the May 8 meeting and listed in 
the meeting minutes.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” hi For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id.
2

===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated by email on May 8 outside of a 
properly posted meeting. The Commission acknowledges that Mr. Luck’s email contained the 
opinion of one Commission member and that those opinions were shared with a quorum of the 
Commission. We agree and conclude that the May 8 email sent by Mr. Luck violated the Open 
Meeting Law because it constituted a communication that reached a quorum of the public body. 
Here, the May 8 email contained the opinion of one Commission member on matters that were 
under active consideration by the Commission. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; Boelter v. 
Board of Selectmen of Wayland. 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).4 The expression of an opinion of 
one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body 
is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33. Although the email was sent to one non-Commission member and only one 
Commission member, the opinions contained in the email were verbally shared with another 
Commission member, thus reaching a quorum of the Commission. A public body may not 
engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous 
manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction. 
See OML 2013-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private 
serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law). Moreover, the Commission may not use a staff member, such 
as the Business Manager, to facilitate a deliberation outside of a meeting. See OML 2013-186; 
OML 2012-105. We commend the Commission for reading Mr. Luck’s comments into the 
record during the May 8 meeting and for releasing the email.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating by email. We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We commend the Commission for publicly disclosing the email at its 
May 8 meeting.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
cc: Lunenburg Sewer Commission 
Robert Ebersole
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
