===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 13, 2019 
OML 2019-98
Rebecca Stone 
Town Administrator 
Town Hall
One North Main Road 
Otis, MA 01253-0237
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Stone:
This office received a complaint from Roberta Sarnacki on April 6 alleging that the Otis 
Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaint was filed with the Board on January 10, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
letter dated January 24. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board’s November 28, 2017, and January 9 meetings.
FACTS
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; thus two 
members constitute a quorum. Roberta Sarnacki, the complainant, was the Police Chief in the 
Town of Otis.2
During a November 28, 2017, meeting, the Board discussed an old police cruiser and 
whether it was worth getting it fixed or instead putting it out to bid. The Board unanimously 
decided to send the vehicle to a local garage for inspection.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Ms. Sarnacki was the Otis Police Chief at the time she filed the complaint. During a June 12 meeting, the Board 
voted not to renew her contract.

===PAGE 2===
The Board held a meeting on January 9. Just prior to the meeting, two Board members, 
William Hiller and Gary Thomas, stopped at the Board’s office to pick up material for the 
meeting. Mr. Hiller and Mr. Thomas briefly discussed repair estimates for the old police cruiser 
and text messages between Mr. Hiller and the complainant about the cruiser.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” hi For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id.
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated prior to the Board’s 
January 9 meeting. The Board suggests that there was no deliberation because the discussion did 
not result in any decision. The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the 
definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. Here, a 
quorum of the Board discussed a matter that had previously been discussed by the Board and was 
still pending before it. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of 
Selectmen of Waviand. 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).3 Therefore, we find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law when two Board members discussed the police cruiser, a matter within 
the Board’s jurisdiction, outside of the January 9 meeting.
We have previously advised the Board of its obligations under the law with respect to 
deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. See OML 2011-27. Where a public body has 
previously violated the Open Meeting Law in a similar way, that may be considered evidence of 
an intentional violation of the law. See 940 CMR 29.02. However, we decline to find the 
Board’s violation of the Open Meeting Law here to be intentional where the Board was found in 
violation of the law over five years ago and we have not found the Board to have similarly 
violated the law in the intervening seven years between this complaint and our 2011 
determination. See OML 2019-84; 940 CMR 29.04(l)(b).
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
KerryAhne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Roberta Sarnacki
Otis Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
