===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 5, 2015 
OML 2015-111 
Susan H. Bonner, Chair 
Nahant Housing Authority 
194 Nahant Road 
Nahant, MA 01908 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Bonner: 
This office received a complaint from Gretchen Benkert, dated March 10,1 alleging 
that the Nahant Housing Authority Board (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
February 19, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated 
March 5.2 In her complaint, Ms. Benkert alleges that, during the Board's February 12 
meeting, it discussed a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice.3 In addition, she 
alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session at that meeting. Finally, 
she alleges that the Board failed to include sufficient detail about the executive session 
topics, both in the meeting notice and in the Chair's verbal statement prior to the executive 
session. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail both in its meeting notice and in the chair's verbal 
statement prior to the executive session. However, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing a topic that was added to the agenda on the day of the meeting. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response to 
the complaint; and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and the open and executive session minutes from the Board's February 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The complainant further alleges that this notice, while properly posted with the Town Clerk, was not posted 
for tenants in the Housing Authority building. We have previously addressed this issue. The Town's official 
notice posting method is the bulletin board outside of Town Hall, thus it is not required to post notice in the 
Housing Authority building. See OML 2014-55. 
===PAGE 2===
12 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Housing Authority Director Donna McDonald on May 
21. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On February 12, the Board held a meeting, in part, to 
convene in executive session to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, an executive assistant pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). The Board had two separate items to discuss under Purpose 1: an Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board by Housing Authority employee Richard 
Tgettis, and an employee grievance submitted by Mr. Tgettis to the Housing Authority. 
The meeting notice listed the executive sessions as follows: "Executive Session 1 Open 
Meeting Law- Complaint; Executive Session 2 Employee Grievance- Discipline Action." 
Prior to the executive sessions, the Board approved a vote by roll call to, "enter two 
Executive Sessions.. .under General Laws c. 30A sec 21 part (a) 1" to discuss an Open 
Meeting Law complaint and to hear an employee grievance. In addition, the notice was 
amended on the day of the meeting to add the topic, "Project #200051 200-1 Tub Surround 
and 705 ADA Shower Owner- Contractor Agreement," which had come to Ms. 
McDonald's attention the day before the meeting. The Board took action on this topic 
during the meeting. 
Following its discussion in executive session about Mr. Tgettis' Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board asked Mr. Tgettis to join the Board in its closed door meeting to 
discuss his grievance. Mr. Tgettis declined, stating that he would prefer that the discussion 
be held in open session. In executive session, the Board then discussed the propriety of 
this request. The Board reviewed the Housing Authority's Personnel Policy on grievances 
to determine the "legality of discussing any disciplinary action taken by an employer on an 
employee in an open format" and then acknowledged that the Open Meeting Law requires 
this discussion be held in open session if the affected individual so requests. The Board 
then returned to open session and announced that the employee grievance discussion had 
not been held. Board member Paul Smith told Mr. Tgettis that the Board decided that the 
grievance would be heard in private by the Board chair alone with Mr. Tgettis pursuant to 
the Personnel Policy. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires a public body to 
post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
2 
===PAGE 3===
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature 
of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44.4 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing a Topic 
Added to the Agenda on the Day of the Meeting. 
A meeting notice need include only topics that were reasonably anticipated by the 
chair. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2015-76. The need for discussion of the topic reading, 
"Project #200051 200-1 Tub Surround and 705 ADA Shower Owner- Contractor 
Agreement" came to the attention of the Authority Director the day before the meeting at 
issue occurred. Because the topic was brought to Ms. McDonald's attention only one day 
before the meeting, we find that the chair also could not have anticipated the discussion at the 
time that the notice was posted. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing the topic during its February 12 meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2015-76. 
We note, however, that as a best practice our office recommends that, whenever possible, 
public bodies update their meeting notices or postpone discussion of topics that arise fewer 
than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public may be given advance notice of 
agenda items.5 OML 2015-76. 
II. The Board's Executive Session Topic was Not Sufficiently Specific. Both 
in the Meeting Notice and the Chair's Verbal Statement Prior to the 
Executive Session. 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. 
v. Sch. Comm. of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the 
only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper."); G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). A public body may 
enter executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"), "[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions: Meeting Notices: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic 
is proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide 
the public with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a 
public body may consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney 
General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial 
or may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." 
The Board noticed an executive session for its February 12 meeting to discuss two 
topics pursuant to Purpose 1: (1) to discuss an employee grievance; and (2) to discuss an 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board. Although noticed, the discussion 
about an employee grievance was not actually held. When a public body does not actually 
discuss the noticed topic, the Open Meeting Law is not violated with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice.6 See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. 
Second, while we find the discussion about the Open Meeting Law complaint was 
properly held (see OML 2013-82), the Board did not include enough detail about the topic 
either in the notice or in the announcement prior to the executive session. To be 
sufficiently specific, the Board should have identified, in both instances, the individual 
who filed the Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board. 
As a result of these procedural violations, the Board may not continue to rely upon 
the Open Meeting Law as the basis for withholding its February 12, 2015 executive session 
minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an 
executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law)-, OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Board may 
continue to withhold the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any 
applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 22(f). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail both in its meeting notice and in the chair's 
verbal statement prior to the executive session. However, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic that was added to the agenda on the day of the 
meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
6 Although not alleged in the complaint, we would be remiss if we failed to mention that the Board should 
not have remained in executive session to review the Housing Authority's Personnel Policy to determine the 
"legality" of whether the Board could honor Mr. Tgettis' request to hold the grievance in open session. We 
remind the Board that there is no executive session purpose for general discussions of personnel matters or 
legal compliance. See OML 2014-150; OML 2014-42. Accordingly, this portion of the executive session 
minutes should be released in its entirety. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gretchen Benkert 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
5 