===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 16, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 48 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michael C. Cunningham 
Town Counsel 
Town of Arlington Legal Department 
50 Pleasant Street 
Arlington, MA 02476 
 
mcunningham@town.arlington.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Cunningham: 
 
This office received a complaint from Arshan Gailus on December 20, 2024, alleging that 
the Arlington Affordable Housing Overlay Working Group (the “Working Group”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Working 
Group on November 7, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Working Group by letter dated 
November 20, 2024.  In his complaint, Mr. Gailus alleges that the Working Group violated the 
Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to a request for meeting minutes.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is not a public body and therefore 
could not have violated the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Working Group’s response, and the complainant’s request for further 
review.  We reviewed an email from Arshan Gailus to Karen Kelleher, dated October 3, 2024, 
requesting minutes of the Working Group.  We also reviewed notices and minutes of meetings 
the Arlington Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of Trustees (the “AHTF Board”) held on 
January 26, 2023, February 23, 2023, March 30, 2023, and April 27, 2023.  We reviewed slides 
of a presentation given by the Working Group to the Arlington Redevelopment Board at a forum 
on January 8, 2024, and slides of a presentation at a forum on November 7, 2024.  We viewed a 
recording of the latter forum,
1 and also reviewed a summary of it, posted by a member of the 
Working Group.2  We reviewed a post to the Housing Corporation of Arlington’s Facebook 
 
1 The recording was accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EXWdkhLt5c4. 
2 The summary was accessed at https://www.srevilak.net/wiki/Exploring_an_Affordable_Housing_Overlay_-
_Nov_7th,_2024.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
page, and comments on the post,3 relative to forums on affordable housing, scheduled for 
October 17, 2024 and November 7, 2024.  We reviewed a summary of proposed affordable 
housing overlay zoning on the blog of Equitable Arlington.4  (Equitable Arlington is a group of 
residents who advocate for equitable housing; some of these residents also have played a role in 
the Working Group.)  We reviewed references to the Working Group within the Town of 
Arlington’s website and within a local news site, yourarlington.com.5  We reviewed documents 
the complainant forwarded to us on February 4, 2025, including minutes of the Affordable 
Housing Trust Fund Board of Trustees.  Finally, on March 7, we interviewed Stephen Revilak, a 
member of the Working Group, via Teams. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  According to Working Group member Stephen Revilak, the 
Working Group was formed as an outgrowth of a warrant article amending the Town of 
Arlington’s zoning to comply with the MBTA Communities Act, G.L. c. 40A, § 3A.  Mr. 
Revilak explained that a group of residents campaigned for passage of the warrant article.  
Following its passage at Town Meeting, one of the members of that group proposed that 
residents next work on increasing the stock of affordable housing by means of an affordable 
housing overlay.  As a result, some of these residents began meeting, usually on a weekly basis, 
to prepare a citizen’s petition (“the Petition”) to place an article on the Town Meeting warrant 
which would advance affordable housing.  This group of residents became the Working Group.  
According to Mr. Revilak, membership in the Working Group is fluid and its meetings proceed 
regardless of how many individuals attend.  The Working Group has no formal charge, as its 
self-given purpose is to prepare and advocate for the Petition.    
 
Minutes of a March 30, 2023, meeting of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of 
Trustees suggest a more formal origin story of the Working Group than that told by Mr. Revilak.  
Those minutes reflect that the Trust “had wanted to proceed with a citizen working group 
comprised of representatives” of several town bodies “and others.”    Among the Working 
Group’s members are at least two residents who are also members of the Affordable Housing 
Trust Fund.    
 
No Town staff played a role in the formation of the Working Group or regularly attends 
its meetings.  The Petition must be presented to the Redevelopment Board before it can be placed 
on the Town Meeting warrant.  However, the Working Group does not otherwise report or 
provide recommendations to any public body.  On September 5, 2024, the Affordable Housing 
Trust Fund Board of Trustees voted to co-sponsor the Working Group’s affordable housing 
forums.  Additionally, emails provided by the complainant show communication between the 
Working Group and Kin Lau, of the Arlington Redevelopment Board, to schedule a meeting. 
 
 
3 The post and comments were accessed at 
https://www.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1276276677061533&id=100040376394581. 
4 The summary was accessed at https://equitable-arlington.org/2024/12/09/affordable-housing-overlay-what-is-it/. 
5 These sites were https://www.arlingtonma.gov/Home/Components/News/News/14615/, and 
https://www.yourarlington.com/component/easyblog/entry/36-housing/3388-overlay-121024.html?Itemid=406164, 
respectively. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Working Group held a forum about its plans for an overlay district on November 7.  
The Town of Arlington promoted the forum on its website:  
 
Tonight! November 7 at 6:00p.m. Exploring an Affordable Housing Overlay for 
Arlington 
Arlington has a scarcity of undeveloped land and substantial zoning barriers to creating 
affordable housing developments that most commonly attract state and federal 
affordable housing funds. We’ll hear from residents of an Affordable Housing Overlay 
working group who are developing a proposal to ease these barriers with an affordable 
housing zoning overlay, and discuss this option with affordable housing experts, local 
leaders and residents.    
 
The forum went forward as scheduled.  It featured a slide show, entitled “Joi n the 
Affordable Housing Conversation!  Exploring an Affordable Housing Overlay in Arlington.”  In 
addition to the title, the first slide also stated, “Town of Arlington, Department of Planning and 
Community Development.”  The Assistant Director of Planning and Community Development,  
Sarah Suarez, opened the meeting.  She stated that “We are going to be joined today by members 
of a citizens working group” drafting a housing overlay.  The Executive Director of the Housing 
Corporation of Arlington, Erica Schwartz, presented slides on the developer’s perspective and 
other topics.  Approximately 30 minutes into the forum, Ms. Schwartz concluded her remarks by 
saying that she was a member of “an informal citizens’ group” which has been researching a 
“possible proposal to bring to the public.”  She introduced Sanjay Newton, another member of 
the Working Group, who then presented the Working Group’s slide show.  Early in his 
presentation was a slide entitled “Considering an Affordable Housing Overlay for Arlington” 
with the text: 
 
Who developed this proposal? 
A working group with housing, zoning and legal experience came together to develop a 
proposed affordable housing overlay, with pro bono legal support from Goulston & 
Storrs.  The participants have contributed in their individual capacities, though some 
serve on public bodies. We have spoken with public officials for feedback, but this 
proposal is offered for public discussion by the following in our personal capacity: 
Beth Elliott, Karen Kelleher, Carol Kowalski, Sanjay Newton, Steve Revilak, Erica 
Schwarz. 
 
Mr. Newton’s presentation lasted approximately 20 minutes and was followed by a 
question-and-answer session.  Several members of the public expressed frustration and concern 
that they were not made aware of the deliberations of a private working group.  Mr. Newton 
explained that the Working Group has made presentations to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund 
Board and the Redevelopment Board.  He represented that any proposal would need to be 
approved by the Redevelopment Board and Town Meeting.  Mr. Newton said the Working 
Group cannot make decisions; “we are here to provide a proposal for people to react to.”  One 
unidentified caller asked “Why is this so private?  Why is this secret?”  Another attendee 
encouraged the Working Group to have more public meetings, adding “There’s got to be a way 
to be more inclusive.”  Mr. Newton again reassured the audience that the Working Group was 
not making decisions and stated that he could not send emails on behalf of the Town.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
On October 3, 2024, the complainant emailed Karen Kelleher in her “capacity as former 
chair of the Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board and co-chair of the Affordable Housing 
Overlay Working Group.”  He asked: 
 
1. Can you tell me how the Affordable Housing Overlay Working Group was formed? 
2. Can you provide me with minutes from recent Affordable Housing Overlay Working 
Group meetings? 
 
Mr. Gailus did not receive a response to his email.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
For a multiple-me mber entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
6  
 
 Based on minutes provided by the complainant, the Affordable Housing Trust Fund 
Board of Trustees may have played some role, or at least had an interest, in the formation of the 
Working Group.  Additionally, the Working Group counts among its members some individuals 
who serve on public bodies within the Town of Arlington, including the Affordable Housing 
Trust Fund Board of Trustees.  However, it cannot be said that any public body or town officer 
created the Working Group; rather, the Working Group was formed by private residents after 
their successful campaign to pass a warrant article which amended the Town of Arlington’s 
zoning to comply with the MBTA Communities Act.  The Working Group was not given a 
charge nor vested with authority by any person or entity related to the town.  It did not make 
recommendations to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of Trustees, such that it might be 
considered a subcommittee of that body.  Although it has more ties to the Town of Arlington 
than what is suggested by member Stephen Revilak (e.g., it coordinated its public forum with the 
Department of Planning and Community Development, and the Town publicized the forum on its 
website), the Working Group falls short of being “within government.”  See OML 2017-190 
(Advisory committee was not “within government” because it was a “private undertaking,” even 
though it was composed of representatives from private groups, school staff and School 
Committee members, and enjoyed the support of the school superintendent).  Moreover, notice 
of the community forums on the Town website is not sufficient to place the Working Group 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
“within” government.  See OML Declination 12-20-21 (Cambridge Highlands) (rejecting 
complainant’s argument that “placement of contact information for [neighborhood association] 
on the City of Cambridge’s website” transforms it into “an arm of the City.”).  For these reasons, 
we find that the Working Group is not a public body.   
 
Because the Working Group does not meet the first of the three factors above, we need 
not proceed further with our analysis.  Nonetheless, we note that there are other considerations 
which, although not dispositive, add to our conclusion that the Working Group is not a public 
body.  In analyzing whether a body satisfies the second factor, we have looked to whether its 
purpose is to work collaboratively.  See OML 2024-86; OML 2021-95; OML 2016-116.  That a 
body chooses to take votes or issue formal reports is not, in and of itself, determinative on the 
issue of whether it satisfies the second factor.  See OML 2024-86 (finding that committee that 
was authorized to oversee audit, collectively provide input to auditor, and resolve issues that may 
arise during audit process is, based on totality of information, a public body); OML 2021-95 
(finding that committee satisfied second factor where its purpose was to compile and analyze 
information and work collaboratively to provide recommendations to Town Manager and Select 
Board).  Still, where the Working Group proceeds with meetings regardless of the number of 
attendees, takes no votes, makes no formal recommendations to a public body, and is not 
empowered with decision-making or policy-advisory authority, it likely does not satisfy the 
second factor.  See OML 2013-56.  See also OML 2023-231 (Stakeholder Group that had no 
fixed membership, had no quorum requirement, took no votes and was created to share 
information, ideas and advice with staff of the Department of Environmental Protection did not 
satisfy the second factor). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Working Group.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
cc: S arah Suarez, Assistant Director of Planning and Community Development (via email: 
ssuarez@town.arlington.ma.us)  
 Juliana Brazile, Town Clerk (via email: jbrazile@town.arlington.ma.us) 
Arshan Gailus (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
