===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 19,2018 
OML 2018-35 
Joel B. Bard, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bard: 
This office received a complaint from Ed Neal on August 29 alleging that the Sturbridge 
Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 27, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated July 18. The complaint alleges that the 
Commission failed to list an executive session on its June 1 meeting notice, that this executive 
session was improperly held, and that the Commission failed to follow the procedural steps 
before convening in executive session. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session for an improper pmpose and by failing to conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in 
executive session. We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law for 
failing to list an executive session on its meeting notice. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of, and open and 
executive session minutes from, the Commission's June 1 meeting; as well as a video recording 
of that meeting.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Thursday, June 1 at 6:00 p.m. The notice listed numerous topics, including committee updates, 
public hearings, letter permits, old and new business, a certificate of compliance request, forest 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording is available at http://68.114.85.55/cablecast/pubIic/Show.aspx?ChannelID=2&ShowlD-2109. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
cutting plans, correspondence, approval of minutes and agent report. The notice did not include 
an executive session. 
The June 1 meeting was held as planned and the Commission discussed the noticed 
topics. At the end of the meeting. Conservation Agent Glerm Colburn reported to the 
Commission on a particular project and then proposed entering into executive session "to discuss 
a strategy for addressing the Douty Road property Article 7 at Town Meeting." The Commission 
voted to enter executive session and announced that it would not reconvene in open session. 
During the executive session, the Commission discussed Town Warrant Article 7 which 
pertained to the purchase of property on Douty Road. Specifically, the Commission discussed a 
recent newspaper advertisement, which promoted the purchase of the property, as containing 
inaccurate and incomplete information. The Commission discussed specific points that Agent 
Colburn should make at Town Meeting, which was the following week, regarding Article 7 
including impacts on school services, town water and town sewer. 
At its July 13 meeting, the Commission admitted the "error in our procedures while 
transitioning to" executive session on June 1 and publicly released those executive session 
minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called," a majority of members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. 
of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the 
reason for doing so was proper or improper"). The chair must also publicly announce whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b) 
(4). 
The complaint alleges that the Commission improperly convened an executive session 
during its June 1 meeting without posting the executive session as a topic on its meeting notice. 
The Commission responded that the topic arose unexpectedly within the 48 hours before the 
scheduled meeting and therefore constituted an unanticipated topic. As an unanticipated topic, 
the Commission was permitted to proceed with the executive session, despite the fact that the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
topic was not listed on the notice. See OML 2017- 38; OML 2017-116. That being said, while 
public bodies may discuss a topic that is not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we encourage public bodies to 
postpone discussion of such topics until proper notice can be given to the public. See OML 
2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
The complaint further alleges that the Commission convened in executive session for an 
improper purpose and that it did not follow the procedural requirements before entering 
executive session during its June 1 meeting. The Commission does not dispute this. One 
permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to consider the purchase, exchange, lease 
or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). 
Although Article 7 pertained to the town's purchase of real property, the discussions by the 
Commission in executive session pertained to its disagreement with certain information provided 
in a newspaper advertisement promoting the purchase of the property. As such, we conclude that 
the Commission's discussions did not pertain to the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real 
property for which it had a negotiating position to protect, and therefore did not fall within a 
proper statutory purpose. Moreover, the Commission did not conduct a roll call vote prior to 
entering into the executive session, which we find to be a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We commend the Commission for publicly releasing the June 1 executive session minutes at its 
July 13 meeting. 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on June 1 to discuss the impact of a Town Meeting warrant article, and by failing to 
conduct a roll call vote prior to entering executive session. We order the Commission's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and caution the Commission that 
a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ed Neal 
Sturbridge Conservation Commission 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 