===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 25 
 
 
Lisa Blackmer 
President, City Council 
City Hall 
10 Main Street 
North Adams, MA 01247 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Blackmer: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jennifer Barbeau on October 13, 2021, alleging 
that the North Adams City Council General Government Committee (the “Committee”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about July 30, 2021, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter on August 24, 2021.1  The complaint alleges that the Committee restricted 
an individual’s right to record the meeting held on July 20, 2021. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law states that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting.  At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees 
of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).   
 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Prior to the start of the Committee’s meeting on July 20, 2021, the complainant notified 
President Blackmer via email that she wished to record this meeting.  However, at the start of the 
meeting, President Blackmer did not make an announcement that the meeting was being 
recorded.  The complainant suggests that because the chair “did not ask or announce that the 
meeting was being recorded” she was “prohibited from recording” the meeting.  We disagree.  
Members of the public have an absolute right to make an audio or video recording of any open 
session meeting, provided they notify the chair first.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2013-179.2  
Here, the complainant notified President Blackmer of her intention to record the meeting.  At 
that point, she was free to start recording the meeting.  Although the chair is required to inform 
attendees at the beginning of a meeting of any recordings, the complainant was not required to 
wait for the chair to make such an announcement prior to starting her recording and we do not 
find that the lack of such announcement restricted the complainant’s right to record the meeting.  
See OML 2014-8; but see OML 2019-67 (public body violated Open Meeting Law when acting 
chair directed individual to stop recording the meeting because the meeting was already being 
live-streamed); OML 2018-4 (public body violated Open Meeting Law when chair asked 
individual to refrain, albeit temporarily, from recording and transmitting the meeting); OML 
2013-81 (public body violated Open Meeting Law when quorum of members voted to “request” 
individual not to tape meeting and individual complied and did not record meeting).   
 
The complaint does not allege, and therefore we do not address herein, whether President 
Blackmer, as Chair of the Committee, violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to make an 
announcement at the start of the meeting informing attendees that the meeting was being 
recorded.  Nonetheless, we remind the Committee and the City Council of the Open Meeting 
Law’s requirement that “[a]t the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees 
of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).” 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jennifer Barbeau – By email only:  
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 