===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 21, 2017 
OML 2017-176 
Mark J. Lanza, Town Counsel 
Town of Harvard 
9 Damonmill Square, Suite 4A4 
Concord, MA 01742 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lanza: 
This office received a complaint from Richard Dolan, dated July 17, alleging that the 
Harvard Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 16, and, after an extension of time 
was granted by our office, the Board responded by letter dated June 16. In his complaint, Mr. 
Dolan alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session to discuss a license 
revocation. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We reviewed a memo sent to the Board by the 
complainant's attorney dated April 20. We reviewed the transcript of an open session Board 
meeting held on April 25, and we reviewed, in camera, the minutes of an executive session held 
on this same date. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on 
November I.2 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant operates ABC Cesspool, Inc. ("ABC"), a 
company that installs and repairs septic systems. Beginning in late 2016, the Board took actions 
against ABC, including a vote to rescind ABC's permit to work in Harvard. On January 31, the 
Board issued a "Cease and Desist Order" and fully rescinded ABC's permit. After several 
attempts to schedule a hearing on this matter, the Board scheduled a hearing for April 25 to 
consider any further action on this matter. On April 20, a few days prior to the scheduled 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
hearing, ABC submitted a memorandum containing arguments as to why ABC believed the 
Board's actions were in error. 
The Board held the April 25 hearing as planned. During the hearing, the chair stated that 
the Board would delay action so that the April 20 memorandum could be considered. Board 
member Libby Levison then moved "that the Board goes into executive session to receive advice 
from counsel concerning potential litigation since such a conversation during an open meeting 
would have a negative effect on the negotiation position of the body." The chair declared that a 
public discussion would ham the Board's litigating position. Over an objection from ABC, the 
Board entered executive session. The minutes of the April 25 executive session have not yet 
been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. We note, however, that 
the Board discussed with its counsel the merits of bringing an enforcement action against ABC 
in Superior Court. Upon resuming in open session, the chair stated that the Board would 
convene its next meeting in two weeks, during which the Board would consider whether a 
probationary period could be implemented for ABC. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such permissible purpose allows a public body 
to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). In order to enter 
an executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently 
threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Ferrvman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 
Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering 
executive session to discuss the revocation of ABC's license. The complaint suggests, based in 
part on Board members' statements prior to the executive session, that the Board met in 
executive session to discuss the merits of the memorandum's arguments, which would not fit 
within a permissible executive session purpose. Alternatively, the complaint alleges that the 
Board met in executive session to discuss the threat of a suit from ABC, which the complaint 
argues was not imminently threatened. Our review of the executive session minutes show that 
the Board discussed the merits of bringing affirmative litigation against ABC in Superior Court. 
A public body may meet in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss whether or not to bring 
a lawsuit. See OML 2015-121.3 We therefore conclude that the Board's April 25 executive 
session was held for a proper purpose, and we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangaharo 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Richard Dolan, ABC Cesspool Co., Inc. 
Sharon McCarthy, Chair, Harvard Board of Health 
F. Alex Parra, Esq., D'Agostine, Levine, Parra & Netburn, P.C. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 