===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 7, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 221  
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only: ghowayeck@fallriverma.org 
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck:  
 
This office received from Patrick Higgins one complaint on January 21, 2022, and two 
complaints on March 7, 2022, alleging that the Fall River City Council (the “Council”) and Fall 
River City Council Committee on Finance (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about 
January 18, 2022, and Nick Macolini of the Human Resources Department responded, on behalf 
of the Council, by letter dated January 21, 2022.  The next two complaints were originally filed 
with the Council and Committee on or about February 14, 2022, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Council and Committee, by separate letters dated March 7, 2022.  The complaints allege that 
the minutes of the Council meetings held on December 28, 2021, January 3, 2022, and January 
18, 2022, and the minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 18, 2022, are insufficiently 
detailed because they do not include a list of documents used during the meetings.   
  
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council and Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s 
responses to the complaints, the complaints filed with our office requesting further review, the 
notices and minutes of the Council meetings held on December 28, 2021, January 3, 2022, and 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
January 18, 2022, and the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 18, 
2022, as well as video recordings of these meetings.1   
 
FACTS 
 
The Council is a nine-member public body.  The Committee is a subcommittee of the 
Council and all nine Council members are also members of the Committee. 
 
On December 23, 2021, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on December 
28, 2021, at 7:00 P.M.  Posted along with the notice were several documents and requests that 
the Council would consider during the meeting, and which corresponded with specific topics 
listed on the notice.  Specifically, the documents attached to the notice included: i) a request 
from the Mayor to appropriate $20,000 for financial services; ii) recommendations from the 
Traffic Commission regarding residents’ requests for handicap parking spaces; iii) claims filed 
against the City for property and vehicle damage; iv) a request to re-dedicate bells at the High 
School; v) an invoice from town legal counsel for services rendered in July and August 2021; vi) 
and the minutes of a Council and Committee meeting held on December 14, 2021.  Each topic on 
the notice that had an attached corresponding document was noted with an asterisk.  
 
On January 13, 2022, the Council and Committee posted a notice of a meeting to be held 
on January 18, 2022.  The Committee meeting was posted for 6:00 P.M. with the Council 
meeting to follow at 7:00 P.M.  Posted along with the notice were several documents and 
requests that the Council and Committee would consider during the meeting, and which 
corresponded with specific topics listed on the notice.  Specifically, the documents attached to 
the notice included: i) requests from the Mayor to appoint Seth Aitken as City Administrator, to 
appropriate $105,000 for school transportation, and to review and approve the Quarterly Budget 
and a Capital Improvement Plan; ii) recommendations that the Committee on Health and 
Environmental Affairs convene quarterly to discuss the City’s water supply, that the Police 
Department consider implementing the use of body cameras, and that the Director of Facilities 
Maintenance conduct a light survey; iii) claims filed against the City for property and vehicle 
damage; iv) two communications from residents; v) two Open Meeting Law complaints; and vi) 
the minutes of a Council meeting held on December 14, 2021, the minutes of a Council and 
Committee meeting held on December 28, 2021, and the minutes of a Council meeting held on 
January 3, 2022.  Each topic on the notice that had an attached corresponding document was 
noted with an asterisk.  
 
The December 28, 2021, meeting of the Council and the January 18, 2022, meetings of 
the Council and Committee were held as planned.  During each meeting, the topics listed on the 
notice were typically read by the Clerk and then the Council or Committee either made a motion 
and voted to approve the various requests, placed received documents on file, or referred matters 
to a subcommittee.  Generally, the Council and Committee only briefly discussed the noticed 
topics.   
 
1 A video recording of the December 28, 2021, meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ4IA6Yl53w; a video recording of the January 3, 2022, meeting is available 
at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o2lR09mZYcs; and a video recording of the January 18, 2022, meeting is 
available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GtDll--A zk . 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
On January 3, 2022, the Council met in the high school auditorium at 4:00 P.M. for an 
inauguration ceremony.  During the approximately one-hour ceremony, City Clerk Alison 
Bouchard administered the oaths of office to the newly elected Mayor as well as the newly 
elected members of the Council and School Committee.  After hearing from several 
distinguished guests, the Council nominated candidates for Council President and Vice 
President, and unanimously voted for Pam Laliberte-Lebeau as Council President and Michelle 
Dionne as Council Vice President.  
 
The minutes of each of the above referenced meetings contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, the members who were present and absent, a summary of the discussions, and the 
decisions made and actions taken, including a record of all votes.  At the end of each set of 
minutes is the following caption: “List of documents and other exhibits used during the 
meeting.”  For the minutes of the Council meeting held on December 28, 2021, the following 
documents are listed under the caption: Agenda packet (attached), DVD of meeting, Letter to 
National Grid.  For the minutes of the Council meeting held on January 3, 2021, the following 
documents are listed under this caption: Agenda and DVD of meeting.  For the minutes of the 
Council meeting held on January 18, 2022, the following documents are listed under the caption: 
Agenda packet (attached), DVD of meeting, Communication from Paul Gauvin, Interim Chief of 
Police re: body cameras.  For the minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 18, 2022, 
the following documents are listed under the caption: Agenda packet (attached) and DVD of 
meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Open Meeting Law further 
specifies that documents and exhibits used during an open session meeting “shall be public 
records in their entirety,” although the documents and exhibits do not need to be attached to or 
physically stored with the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e); see also OML 2022-172; OML 2017-
43; OML 2012-59. 
 
The complaints alle
 ge that minutes of meetings held on December 28, 2021, January 3, 
2021, and January 18, 2022, fail to specifically list the documents used during each meeting.   
The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting 
but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, 
and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has 
been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.   
 
We find that the minutes of the Council meeting held on January 3, 2022, are sufficiently 
detailed.  The January 3, 2022, meeting was an inauguration ceremony for newly elected 
members and, although the Council conducted some business by electing a President and Vice 
President, the Council did not use any documents during the meeting.  Therefore, even though 
the minutes reference two documents used during the meeting - the agenda and DVD of the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting, we find that the Council was not required to include a list of documents used during this 
meeting.   
 
We find that the Council and Committee did use documents during the December 28, 
2021, and Ja
nuary 18, 2022, meetings.  We acknowledge that certain documents may not have 
been specifically identified during the meeting.  However, even though a document may not be 
specifically identified does not necessarily mean it was not “used” at the meeting.  See OML 
2012-42.  Here, it is clear from the video recordings of each meeting that the Clerk for the 
Council and Committee read each topic of discussion directly from the notice.  It is also clear 
that Council and Committee members were provided with and referenced the documents that 
were attached to the notices and which specifically corresponded with the topics listed on the 
notice and read by the Clerk during each meeting.  Thus, although certain documents might not 
have been expressly identified aloud, they were clearly referenced, and were physically present 
at the meetings.  Further, the contents of those documents were discussed and voted on by 
members, even if those discussions were brief.  Therefore, we find that such documents were 
used at the meetings.  See OML 2019-46; OML 2017-43.   
 
Because we find that documents were used during the December 28, 2021, and January 
18, 2022, meetings, we must determine whether simply listing in the minutes “Agenda packet 
(attached)” under the caption “List of documents and other exhibits used during the meeting” 
without specifically identifying each document used is sufficient.  Although the Open Meeting 
Law specifies that documents used during an open session meeting shall be public records in 
their entirety, the Law does not require that the documents be attached to the minutes; rather, the 
minutes must include only a list of documents used.  From this, we infer that the purpose of the 
list of documents is to identify the documents in such a way that enables the documents used 
during a meeting to be identified so they can be produced in response to a public records request.  
Therefore, we consider whether the list of documents in the Council’s December 18, 2021, and 
January 18, 2022, meeting minutes “Agenda packet (attached)” satisfied the purpose.  We find in 
this case that listing “Agenda packet (attached)” was sufficient for the following reasons.   
 
First, the documents that were posted with the notice were, in fact, attached to the 
minutes.  Second, the notice for each meeting was also attached to the minutes as part of the 
“Agenda packet” and each topic on the notice that had an attached corresponding document was 
noted with an asterisk.  Third, each topic was listed on the notice with detailed specificity thus 
the document that corresponded with each topic was consequently identifiable.  Finally, each 
attached document had a number written in the upper right hand corner that corresponded with 
the topic as it was enumerated on the notice.  Therefore, for all these reasons, we find that the 
minutes of the December 28, 2021, Council meeting and the minutes of the January 18, 2022, 
meetings of the Council and Committee are sufficiently detailed.  Even though the Council and 
Committee did not separately list in the minutes each document used during the meetings, the 
documents here are kept and labeled in such a way as to make them transparent and easily 
accessible.   
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council and Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Council or Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Fall River City Council – By email only: city_council@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
