===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
November 17, 2014 
OML 2014- 135 
Clement Brown, Esq. 
Horvitz & Brihante, L.L.P. 
321 North Main St. 
P.O. Box 2568 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Brown: 
This office received two complaints on September 29 from Christopher Murphy, alleging 
that the Somerset Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The first complaint was filed with the Board on September 19, and alleges that 
the Board met on August 20 to take a photograph to endorse a candidate for Governor's Council 
but did not post notice for a meeting or otherwise adhere to the Open Meeting Law. The Board 
responded to this complaint by letter dated September 25. The second complaint, also filed with 
the Board on September 19, alleges that "[a]t one time between the time [Mr. Murphy] filed [two 
prior Open Meeting Law] complaints and the receipt of the response from attorney Brown, did 
the Board of Selectmen discuss [his] open meeting complaints during one of their meetings in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law." The Board responded to this complaint by letter dated 
September 25. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
With the respect to the first complaint, a quorum of the Board members convened to take 
a photograph for political purposes. They issue is whether the Board deliberated. Deliberation is 
defined, in part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Discussion of political campaigns is not public business within 
the jurisdiction of the Board. See OML 2012-64 ("[sjtatements made by public body members 
for political purposes that do not involve matters presently or likely to come under consideration 
by the public body in the future are not communications on public business within the 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014 unless otherwise specified. 
c> 
===PAGE 2===
jurisdiction of the body, regardless of whether they are made by an individual public body 
member or by the members collectively").2 The Board members did not discuss any matters 
within the Board's jurisdiction while posing for a photograph. Because the Board members did 
not deliberate, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Mr. Murphy's second complaint alleges that "[a]t one time between the time [Mr. 
Murphy] filed [two prior Open Meeting Law] complaints and the receipt of the response from 
attorney Brown, did the Board of Selectmen discuss [his] open meeting complaints during one of 
their meetings in violation of the Open Meeting Law." The notice for the Board's August 20 
meeting listed the following topic for executive session: "To discuss complaints or charges 
brought against a public officer, employee, staff member, or individual—open meeting 
complaints." During the meeting at issue, the Board met with its attorney to discuss Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed by Mr. Murphy. Public bodies may discuss Open Meeting Law 
complaints in executive session. See OML 2013-82; OML 2011-6. We therefore find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so on this date.3 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
/^Jonathan Sclarsic 
* Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Somerset Board of Selectmen 
Christopher Murphy 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 During an October 23 phone conversation with our office, Mr. Murphy elaborated that his complaint concerned the 
Board's failure to identify him as the complainant who filed the Open Meeting Law complaints discussed during the 
Board's August 20 meeting. We remind the Board that, if doing so would not compromise the purpose for the 
executive session, it should identify in its meeting notice the specific Open Meeting Law complaints the Board 
anticipates discussing in executive session. See OML 2011 -31. 
2 