===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 88 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
JCollins@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Collins: 
 
This office received two complaints, one from Michael Donahue and one from Kevin 
Wood, alleging that the Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Donahue filed his complaint with the 
Commission on or about November 14, 2023, and with our office on December 19, 2023. 
Thereafter, you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated January 26, 2024.
1 Mr. 
Wood filed his complaint with the Commission on or about November 8, 2023, and with our 
office on January 9, 2024. Thereafter, you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter 
dated January 26, 2024. We understand the complaints to allege that the Commission improperly 
deliberated immediately prior to its November 7, 2023, meeting being called to order.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, 
the Commission’s responses, the requests for further review, and additional communications 
 
1 We remind the Commission of its obligation to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 
business days of receiving the complaint. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Failure to timely respond to 
Open Meeting Law complaints is itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law. If a public body believes it will need 
additional time to respond to a complaint, it may contact the Division, prior to the expiration of the 14 business days, 
requesting an extension of time for good cause. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
2 We note that we do not review alleged Open Meeting Law violations that were not raised in an original complaint 
filed with the public body, nor do we review allegations that, even if true, would not constitute  a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2022-188, n. 2; OML 2022-188. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
from the complainants. We also reviewed the relevant portion of a video recording of the 
Commission’s November 7 meeting.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission is a seven-member public body; 
therefore, four members constitute a quorum. The Commission’s November 7 meeting was held 
fully remotely via the Zoom platform and was recorded by Georgetown Community Television. 
Prior to formally calling the meeting to order, members of the Commission joined the meeting 
using the Zoom platform and discussed various matters for approximately 7 minutes. 
Specifically, the Commission’s chair at the time, Carl Shreder, recapped a joint meeting the 
Commission and the Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) held on October 23, the subject of which 
was helping the two bodies repair their working relationship going forward. After recapping the 
October 23 joint meeting, Mr. Shreder noted that he had spoken with a potential moderator to 
assist the Commission and the Board in their goal. Mr. Shreder noted that he had spoken with the 
potential moderator at length, that he liked her, and that he thought she would be good for the 
role. It is not clear whether the public was able to access the meeting during these initial 7 
minutes and thereby witness these comments as they occurred, but the comments were recorded 
by Georgetown Community Television and included in the video recording of the November 7 
meeting posted online. 
 
Mr. Shreder then noted that the Commission and the Board had received criticism for 
“discussing agenda items” during the October 23 meeting and stated that people were “just 
criticizing everything.”
4 Thereafter, Commission member Rachel Bancroft, apparently frustrated 
with the criticism the Commission had received, stated that “the agenda [for the October 23 
meeting] said ‘agenda items to be discussed and decided upon,’ so we were discussing potential 
agenda items.” From there, Mr. Shreder expressed further frustration that the Commission was 
receiving constant criticism and “FOIA” requests. Mr. Shreder wondered aloud what the goal of 
filing so many records requests was. Ms. Bancroft expressed a similar frustration stating that “at 
a certain point, it’s just a waste of taxpayer money.” Mr. Shreder then mentioned that the Board 
and the Police Department were also receiving records requests. Finally, there were a few 
minutes during which the Commission worked out technical issues with individuals’ 
microphones and speakers. At 7:02 p.m., Mr. Shreder officially called the meeting to order.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and that 
meetings be open to the public, unless a lawful executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
 
3 A video recording of the Commission’s November 7 meeting may be found at 
http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7710. 
4 On October 23, Mr. Wood filed two complaints, one with the Commission and one with the Board, alleging that 
the notice for the October 23 joint meeting included insufficiently specific topics. Those complaints were resolved 
by Open Meeting Law determination OML 2024-59, issued on April 12, 2024.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
juri
sdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the 
members of the public body.” Id. We have explained that a topic falls outside the scope of a 
body’s jurisdiction where it does not involve the public body’s exercise of governmental 
business, policy, or administration. See OML 2018-1; OML 2022-37.  
 
 The complaints allege that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when, prior 
to calling the November 7 meeting to order, the Commission discussed the October 23 joint 
meeting and a potential moderator, as well as spoke disparagingly of receiving records requests 
and “activities taken by residents concerned by the nonprofessional and improper conduct of 
conservation commission members.”  
 
 With respect to the portion of the discussion during which Mr. Shreder recap
 ped the 
October 23 joint meeting and explained that he had spoken to a potential moderator who he 
thought would be a good fit, the Commission asserts that there were only three Commission 
members present. After reviewing the video recording of the November 7 meeting, we do not 
find evidence that a quorum of the Commission was present during this portion of the 
discussions. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Commission’s account of 
events and find that the Commission did not deliberate regarding these topics where a quorum 
was not present during these discussions. See OML 2021-193; OML 2015-8. Additionally, we 
note that in the past we have found that simply relaying what occurred during an earlier meeting 
that was open to the public does not constitute deliberation. See OML 2023-90; OML 2022-138; 
OML 2021-82; OML 2019-78. However, we warn the Commission that when Mr. Shreder 
updated members regarding his discussion with the potential moderator and noted his opinion 
about the potential moderator, this likely would have constituted deliberation had a quorum been 
present. See OML 2020-169 (noting that “‘deliberation’ is not limited to opinion or decision-
making communications, and includes updates on matters to be discussed by the public body or 
matters that had previously been discussed by the public body and are still pending before it”).  
 
 Next, we decline to review the allegations that Mr. Shreder and Ms. Bancroft spoke 
dispa
ragingly about receiving records requests and other “activities taken by residents.” The 
Division’s review is limited to compliance with the Open Meeting Law. In general, the Open 
Meeting Law does not govern the content of a public body’s discussions. See OML 2018-43, n. 
3; OML 2020-167. Although we certainly discourage uncivil and unprofessional behavior, an 
allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility does not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2020-36, n. 5; OML 2019-166; OML Declination 6-28-16 (Kingston 
Board of Selectmen).  
 
To the extent the complaints allege that Mr. Shreder’s and Ms . Bancroft’s comments 
regarding receiving criticism and records requests constituted improper deliberation, we find that 
they did not. We have determined that a topic falls outside the scope of a body’s jurisdiction 
where: (i) it does not involve the public body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or 
administration; (ii) it relates to personal matters, such as the safety and well-being of public body 
members or their families; or (iii) collective action by the body, such as taking a vote, is not 
anticipated on the topic. See OML 2018-1. We note that how to respond to a particular complaint 
or records request, or how to address complaints and records requests in general would be 
===PAGE 4===
matters within the Commission's jurisdiction and therefore discussion of such would constitute
deliberation. Although Mr. Shreder's and Ms. Bancroft's remarks present a close question where
they made reference to an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Commission, overall, we
find that their remarks expressed their own personal frustrations with records requests and
criticism the Commission was receiving and as such were not communications regarding matters
within the Commission's jurisdiction. See OML 2023-17 (finding that communications that
"were essentially criticisms of [a] complainant" were not communications regarding a matter
within the public body's jurisdiction); OML 2021-178. Although we do not find a violation here,
we remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law's definition of "deliberation" is very
broad and includes nearly any communication about a matter within the public body's
jurisdiction. As such, we strongly advise caution when a quorum of the Commission
communicates outside of a properly noticed meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you
have any questions regarding this letter.
CC:
Sincerely,
Elang
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Rebecca Chane, Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission
(via email: rchane@georgetownma.gov)
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov)
Michael Donahue (via email:
Kevin Wood (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.