===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 17, 2016 
OML 2016-142 
Joslin H. Murphy, Town Counsel 
Town of Brookline 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murphy: 
This office received a complaint from Brooks Ames, dated July 29, alleging that the 
Brookline Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 22, and the Board responded 
by letter dated July 1. In his complaint, Mr. Ames alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to provide notice to an individual discussed during two executive 
sessions. 
With respect to the first meeting addressed in the complaint, we find that the allegation is 
untimely and we decline to review it. With respect to the second meeting addressed in the 
complaint, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the open session minutes of Board 
meetings held on February 17 and June 21, and, in camera, the minutes of executive sessions 
held on these same dates. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on October 6 and 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is legal counsel to Gerald Alston, who 
was formerly employed by the Brookline Fire Department. The complaint concerns two Board 
meetings held on February 16 and June 21. 
The notice of the Board's February 16 meeting stated that the Board would convene in 
executive session "for the purpose of discussing strategy with respect to litigation in the matter 
of 'Gerald Alston v. the Town of Brookline, et al.'" The Board held its February 16 meeting and 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
12. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
entered executive session as planned. Because the Board has not publicly released these 
executive session minutes, we do not recount their contents in detail. We note, however, that 
during the executive session, the Board discussed litigation filed by Mr. Alston against the 
Town, as well as Mr. Alston's employment status. Mr. Alston was not present during this 
executive session. On February 17, Brookline Town Counsel wrote a letter to the complainant 
stating that Mr. Alston's paid administrative leave had been terminated.2 
The notice of the Board's June 21 meeting stated that the Board would convene in 
executive session "for the purpose of discussing the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline 
or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual." The individual to be discussed was not named on the notice. 
On June 20, the complainant sent an e-mail to the Board chair and the Town 
Administrator seeking confirmation that Mr. Alston would not be discussed during the June 21 
executive session. This e-mail also stated that the Board had improperly discussed Mr. Alston's 
"fitness for duty" during its February 16 executive session and requested the minutes of that 
meeting. 
The Board held its June 21 meeting as planned. Again, we do not recount the contents of 
these unreleased executive session minutes in detail. We note, however, that during this meeting 
the Board met with an individual other than Mr. Alston to discuss that individual's reputation 
and character. Part of that discussion involved a minor, tangential reference to Mr. Alston. 
However, the Board did not discuss Mr. Alston or his employment status in any substantive way. 
On June 22, Brookline Town Counsel replied by e-mail to the complainant's June 20 e-
mail. In this response. Town Counsel disagreed with the complainant's allegations regarding the 
February 16 executive session and stated, "A review of the executive session minutes identified 
in your correspondence will be conducted promptly for the purpose of determining whether they 
should be disclosed under the relevant provisions of the open meeting law, the public records 
law, and/or the attorney-client privilege." On this same date, the complaint was filed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L, c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual 
to be discussed in such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at 
least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The individual must also be afforded 
2 Mr. Alston formally remained an employee of the Town until he was officially terminated in October. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his 
or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to 
have an independent record of the meeting made at the individual's own expense; Id Another 
permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 3, "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 
With respect to the complaint's allegation concerning the February 16 meeting, we find 
that this allegation is untimely. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must 
be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the 
alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the 
complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 
940 CMR 29.05(3). Here, the complaint alleges that the Board discussed taking an adverse 
employment action against Mr. Alston during its February 16 executive session—that is, 
terminating Mr. Alston's paid administrative leave. The complainant had notice of this action on 
February 17, and any allegation related to an improperly held executive session should have been 
filed with the Board within 30 days of that date. Id. Here, the complaint was filed with the 
Board on June 22, more than four months after the first meeting addressed in the complaint. We 
therefore decline to review this allegation. 
With respect to the June 21 meeting, the complaint alleges that the Board discussed Mr. 
Alston during the June 21 executive session, and that Mr. Alston was therefore entitled to notice 
of the discussion under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Our review of the June 21 executive session 
minutes shows that the Board did not engage in a substantive discussion of Mr. Alston. Rather, 
the discussion focused on another individual. We therefore find that this was not the type of 
executive session that would require notice to Mr. Alston. See OML 2014-90.3 Accordingly, we 
find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
21(a)(3). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Brookline Board of Selectmen 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Brooks Ames 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 