===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 21, 2015 
OML 2015-194 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated November 5, alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 2,-and the 
Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated September 22. In his complaint, 
Mr. Harris alleges that the Committee posted a meeting notice that provided insufficient 
information regarding an anticipated discussion topic. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed original complaint; the Committee's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Committee meeting held on August 28. Finally, we reviewed a video of the August 28 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
August 28. One of the topics listed for discussion in open session was, "Discuss Potential to 
Waive Attorney Client Privilege of Letter Submitted by Attorney Toomey of Murphy, Toomey 
& Lehane and Discussion Thereof." The Committee convened a meeting on August 28 as 
planned. 
Regarding the agenda topic at issue, the minutes state the following: 
For the School Committee's information, Ellen clarified the scope of this discussion. The 
Committee will not be discussing the substance of the document submitted to both the 
School Committee and Board of Selectmen by Attorney Jim Toomey, as the document was 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
deemed attorney/client privileged. The attorney/client privilege cannot be fully waived 
by the School Committee acting alone, as the privilege belongs to both the School 
Committee and Board of Selectmen. The intent tonight is to vote to waive the School 
Committee's privileged portion of the document, as a means to respect the Board of 
Selectmen's separate right to decide about the attorney/client privilege. Further, Ellen 
noted that, according to the Attorney General, the attorney/client privilege by itself is not 
a basis for executive session; however, once it is waived, it is waived. Ellen asked the 
School Committee members if they want to waive the attorney/client privilege for the 
letter submitted by Jim Toomey. 
As requested, Ellen [relayed] her personal view in this regard. Donna commented that it 
is her opinion that factual information does not pertain to the attorney/client privilege. 
She accused the School Committee of operating secretively and the other members 
strongly disagreed. A discussion ensued and Donna was advised to get a legal opinion 
regarding the attorney/client privilege. Ellen will consult with legal counsel about 
whether all information submitted by an attorney is privileged. 
[] 
In an attempt to understand the reason that the letter was deemed attorney/client 
privilege, the Committee referred to Susan. According to Susan, it was Attorney 
Toomey's opinion that his conversations with school and town administrators fell under 
the attorney/client privilege. 
[] 
Susan left the meeting at 9:02 a.m. to call Attorney Toomey asking if there was a reason 
that the School Committee could not release the document. 
[] 
Susan returned at 9:06 a.m. and related her telephone conversation with Attorney 
Toomey. He treats all information shared with communities as privileged and 
confidential, and since he was hired by both Boards, both the School Committee and 
Board of Selectmen should discuss the potential to waive attorney/client privilege. 
Ultimately, the Committee voted to waive its attorney-client privilege with respect to the 
letter at issue. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[ejxcept in an emergency, in addition to any 
notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Furthermore, "[njotice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was 
reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public body more than 48 hours before the meeting, 
must be listed in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Generally, topics are 
considered to be sufficiently specific if a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the nature of the discussion to take place. See OML 2013-140; OML 2013-28; 
OML 2011-44. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee did not provide sufficient information 
regarding the letter it planned to discuss. Typically, public bodies must divulge some identifying 
information about the subjects they plan to discuss. See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked 
Questions on Meeting Notices, available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting (when discussing a 
traffic project, the notice should specify the intersections involved). The issue here is whether 
the failure to include specifics about the letter from the Committee's legal counsel violated the 
Open Meeting Law. We conclude that it did not. The anticipated discussion concerned a 
privileged communication, and the Committee reasonably believed that divulging information 
regarding the letter could compromise that privilege, not only for the Committee but for the 
Board of Selectmen, which was a recipient of this same letter. The Committee's conduct during 
the August 28 open session meeting demonstrates how seriously the Committee—^particularly 
the Chair—considered the privilege issue to be. Further, the essential details of the discussion 
were included such that members of the public could understand that the Committee would be 
discussing a letter from a specific law firm, and what the nature of the Committee's discussion 
would be. On these unique facts, we find that the Committee provided sufficient information on 
the meeting notice at issue. See OML 2013-143. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. MSnganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
3 
===PAGE 4===
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.