===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       March 24, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 44   
 
 
Sean Hendricks 
Town Manager  
Town of Millbury 
127 Elm Street 
Millbury, MA 01527 
 
By email only: SHendricks@millburyma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Hendricks: 
  
 This office received a complaint from Terry Burke Dotson on August 10, 2022, alleging 
that the Millbury Working Group (the “Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Group on June 14, 2022.
1  On August 16, 
Conor McCormack, Director of Planning and Development, responded to the complaint by 
email.
2  The complaint alleges that the Group failed to post notice and create minutes of 
meetings. 
   
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we resolved this matter.  We resolve this 
matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing, the 
original complaint, the response to the complaint from Mr. McCormack, the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review, and a video recording of the Planning Board meeting held 
on June 13.3  We also spoke with the complainant by telephone on September 28, and with you 
by telephone on October 20.4  We find that the Group is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, and therefore did not violate the law in the ways alleged. 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, a public body must meet to 
review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description 
of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
3 A video recording of the Planning Board meeting held on June 13 is available at 
https://www.millburypublicaccess.com/video-on-demand. 
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
In 2020, the former Director of Planning and Development began to review the Town’s 
zoning bylaws and regulations and met with the Chairs of the Planning Board and Zoning Board 
of Appeals to identify which bylaws may need updates.  These three individuals met once in the 
Fall of 2020 and twice in the spring of 2021 but, according to Mr. Hendricks, did not meet at all 
in 2022.  The Town Manager did not attend any of these meetings.  Ultimately, any revisions to 
the bylaws would be placed before the community at Town Meeting. 
 
A “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law is any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  In addition, a 
subcommittee is defined as “any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.”  Id.  Individual public officials, such as the Director of 
Planning and Development or Town Manager, who are not members of a public body are not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-170.  Moreover, since individual public 
officials are not public bodies, generally, meetings between such officials or with their staff are 
not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  However, where a public body creates a multiple-member 
body and charges it with advising the body on public policy through collective action, that entity 
will likely be a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2012-28. 
 
We have not been presented with any evidence here that a specific public body, such as 
the Planning Board or Zoning Board of Appeals, directed an individual public official, such as 
the Director of Planning and Development or the Town Manager, with reviewing the zoning 
bylaws and bringing recommendations on any necessary changes before that public body.
5  See 
OML 2015-93; OML 2014-56.  Nor is there any evidence that the Planning Board or any other 
town board or committee voted to create the Group or even voted to direct the Director of 
Planning and Development to create the Group.  See OML 2019-149.  Rather, it appears that the 
former Director of Planning and Development took it upon herself to begin reviewing certain 
zoning bylaws and then met with individual Chairs on her own volition.  Finally, there is no 
evidence that a quorum of the Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals or other public body 
participated in the Group or otherwise deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.
6  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (defining deliberation as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction”). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 We note that the Division of Open Government does not perform broad audits of public bodies.  See OML 2013-
180. 
6 The complainant believes that two members of the Board of Selectmen may have participated in meetings held by 
the Group.  The Board of Selectmen is a five-member public body; thus, three members constitute a quorum. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the law by failing to post notice or create 
minutes of meetings.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Group.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Terry Burke Dotson – By email only  
Conor McCormack, Planning Director – By email only: 
cmccormack@townofmillbury.net 
Millbury Town Clerk – By email only: Jdavolio@townofmillbury.net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
