===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.m ass .go v/ago 
March 15, 2016 
OML 2016-36 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney George Harris on November 10, 2015, 
alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about August 5, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by 
letter dated September 22, 2015.1 The complaint alleges that: (1) the Committee failed to 
timely respond to a request for executive session minutes; (2) the Committee failed to comply 
with a previous order issued by our office in OML 2015-55; and (3) the August 28, 2014 
executive session minutes, as revised pursuant to our order, lacked sufficient detail. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching our decision, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. In 
addition, we reviewed the executive session minutes from meetings held on August 28, 2014 
and May 26, 2015. Finally, we reviewed correspondence between the parties concerning Mr. 
Hams' request for minutes. 
We find the facts as follows. On April 28, 2015, our office issued a determination, 
OML 2015-55, resolving an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Committee by the 
complainant. In this decision, our office found, in part, that the Committee's August 28, 2014 
executive session mimites concerning its discussion under Purpose 7 were insufficiently 
detailed. We ordered the Committee to draft and approve revised minutes and to release that 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
section of the executive session minutes unless the attorney-client privilege or one or more 
exemptions to the Public Records Law applied. During its May 26, 2015 meeting, the 
Committee convened in executive session to amend the minutes as ordered by our office. The 
Committee added some detail about the discussion, although it did not include the name of the 
parent who sent the email discussed during the meeting. The Committee then returned to 
open session and voted to release these executive session minutes, as amended and redacted in 
executive session. The list of documents itemized in the May 29, 2015 minutes does not 
include these amended minutes. 
On July 7, 2015, the complainant sent an email to Committee Chair Grieco requesting 
a copy of these revised executive session minutes. Having received no response, the 
complainant sent another email, on July 28, 2015, to Chair Grieco reiterating his request. 
That same day, the School Superintendent's assistant, who is the Committee's records keeper, 
sent an email to the complainant with a copy of the requested minutes attached. The 
attachment was a copy of the minutes originally approved by the Committee on November 3, 
2014, rather than the amended minutes. It appears that the Committee had not provided the 
assistant with a copy of the amended minutes to place into the Committee's executive session 
minutes log book. 
After further prompting by the complainant, on July 31, 2015, Committee member 
Barbara Fletcher provided him with a copy of the amended minutes. The relevant section of 
the minutes was redacted pursuant to exemptions under the Public Records Law. After the 
filing of this complaint, the Committee decided to release the redacted portion of these 
minutes during its September 22, 2015 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). While the minutes 
must include a summary of the discussions on each subject, a transcript is not required. OML 
2015-142. Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. Id.; OML 2013-16; OML 2012-29. Upon request by any person to inspect or copy 
the minutes of an executive session or any portion thereof, the public body must respond to 
the request within 10 days following receipt and must release any such minutes not covered 
by an exemption. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
I. The Committee failed to timely respond to a request for executive session 
minutes. 
On May 26, 2015, the Committee revised and released a redacted copy of the August 
28, 2014 executive session minutes. On July 7, 2015, the complainant submitted a request to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Committee for a copy of those revised minutes. The Committee did not respond until 
after the complainant renewed his request on July 28, 2015, at which time the Committee 
provided an earlier version of the minutes. The complainant finally received a copy of the 
minutes he requested on July 31, 2015. Because the Committee did not respond to the 
complainant's request until 21 days later, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law for failing to provide the minutes within 10 days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(2). 
The Committee was advised by the Attorney General previously that it must respond 
to requests for executive session minutes within 10 days. See OML 2014-105. In that 
decision, however, our finding focused on the Committee's failure to conduct a review of 
executive session minutes within 30 days of a request. Here, because our finding focuses on a 
different clause in the same section of the Law, we decline to find that the violation is 
intentional. We note, however, our serious concerns about the Committee's compliance with 
the Law. We therefore order the Board to undergo training on the Open Meeting Law within 
thirty (30) days following its receipt of this determination, and to certify to our office that 
every member of the Board has attended that training. The training is to be conducted by an 
attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Law and approved by the 
Division of Open Government. 
II. The Committee Failed to Include a Document Used at the Meeting in its May 
26, 2015 Minutes. 
Although the Committee listed 17 other documents at the end of the May 26, 
2015 meeting minutes, it failed to list the August 28, 2014 executive session minutes which it 
had amended and released during the meeting. Where a document is physically present, 
verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during a 
meeting, it has been "used" for pmposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 
2012-42. Here, the Committee reviewed and discussed the minutes in executive session and 
then released them to the public in open session. Because the Open Meeting Law requires 
that documents used during the meeting be included in the minutes, we find that the 
Committee violated the Law by omitting this information from its minutes. 
III. The Committee's Revised Executive Session Minutes Again Lack Sufficient 
Detail. 
The Committee has failed to fully comply with our order to revise the August 28, 2014 
executive session minutes. The relevant portion of the minutes failed to identify the 
individual who sent the email that was the very subject of the executive session discussion, 
although it correctly added that detail (redacted) in its list of documents at the end of the 
minutes. Accordingly, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to sufficiently revise its August 28, 2014 minutes. We have previously advised the 
Committee that it must include sufficient detail in its minutes. See OML 2015-55; OML 
2014-116. In this instance, we decline to find that the Committee intentionally omitted this 
3 
===PAGE 4===
detail from its minutes and instead order the Committee to further revise its minutes to include 
this information. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a 
request for executive session minutes within 10 days, by failing to list a document in its 
minutes, and by failing to provide sufficient detail in its executive session minutes. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. In addition, we 
order the Committee to further revise its August 28, 2014 executive session minutes in 
accordance with our guidance above. Finally, we order the Committee to complete an Open 
Meeting Law training and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter that it has 
complied with this order. The training is to be conducted by an attorney or organization 
familiar with the requirements of the Law and approved by the Division of Open Government. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris, Esq. 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
4 