===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago  
 June 2, 2020         OML 2020 – 66  VIA EMAIL  David Doneski, Esq. 101 Arch Street Boston MA 02110 ddoneski@k-plaw.com    RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Dear Attorney Doneski: This office received a complaint from Lynne Fraker on January 13, 2020, alleging that the Tisbury Natural Resources Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on December 13 and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 6.1 In her complaint, Ms. Fraker alleges that, at a November 13 meeting, the Committee discussed a controversial topic under the agenda item “Other” which was not otherwise included on the posted meeting notice.2 Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a topic reasonably anticipated by the Chair in the notice for its November 13 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a video of the November 13 meeting and spoke to Ms. Fraker on April 24. Finally, we spoke to Committee member Amandine Surier Hall on May 11 and reviewed several emails between Ms. Hall and Committee Chair Sally Rizzo dated November 11 and 12.  FACTS We find the facts as follows. On Monday November 11, at 4:09 p.m., Committee Chair Sally Rizzo circulated to all members of the Committee a meeting notice for the November 13 Committee meeting via email. Among the seven topics listed, the notice included a final item                                                              1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 2 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
===PAGE 2===
2  
“Other,” but did not include any topics related to the Martha’s Vineyard Shipyard expansion proposal. At some point prior to November 11, Committee Member Hall requested that the Chair add to the Committee’s next meeting agenda the topic of the proposed addition of a marina to the Martha’s Vineyard Shipyard as Ms. Hall wished to speak on the topic. On November 11 at 7:57 p.m., upon seeing that the matter was not included on the new meeting notice, Ms. Hall replied to the Chair’s email to follow up on her previous request to discuss the matter at the upcoming meeting. Ms. Hall noted in her email that she wished to provide information to the committee and explain that public comment was open for the Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act (“MEPA”) Office’s review of the project.  On November 12 at 8:36 a.m., the Chair replied to Ms. Hall and told her she could speak about the shipyard development at the meeting. The Chair also noted that she planned to raise the issue of the shipyard expansion as well.  On November 13, the Committee met as planned. After an hour and a half of discussion on other topics, the Chair turned to the “Other” item, explaining that she had added it to the agenda in case other Committee members wished to introduce other items. The Chair then noted that MEPA was soliciting feedback on the Martha’s Vineyard Shipyard expansion proposal. Other members asserted that the proposal would need to be approved by the Conservation Commission as well as the Town of Tisbury so the process would be a long one. The Chair encouraged the Committee members to examine the proposal and submit public comments before the window for public comment closed.  The Chair also permitted Ms. Hall to discuss the possible harmful shellfish impacts of the project, including both environmental and regulatory concerns. Ms. Hall distributed several prepared handouts with information supporting her concerns. Ms. Hall explained that the possible environmental harms included heavy metals, dredging and cross contamination, and that the regulatory impacts resulting from new federal regulation of marinas could increase shellfishing closures. Ms. Hall explained that the state was currently challenging the federal regulations and therefore the degree of enforcement of the new regulations was unclear and might remain so for several years. Ms. Hall concluded by asking the Committee members to consider both the environmental and regulatory harms of the project carefully. Committee members then debated the possible general impact of the new regulations and discussed the great uncertainty of the future federal regulatory landscape for several minutes. Finally, the Chair thanked Ms. Hall for the information and adjourned the meeting. The entire discussion of the Martha’s Vineyard Shipyard expansion project comprised approximately 10 minutes.  DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
===PAGE 3===
3  
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-147.3 Boilerplate topics such as “Other Business” should be avoided, because they do not give the public sufficient notice of the specific topics that will be discussed at that particular meeting. See OML 2012-71. A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, although we do encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2019-17; OML 2018-17.   Here, as evidenced by the emails between the Chair and Ms. Hall approximately 48 hours before the meeting, the Chair intended to mention the MEPA public comment period for the shipyard expansion project. The Chair was also aware before the meeting notice was posted that Ms. Hall wished to provide information to the Committee about this topic, and the Chair specifically confirmed that Ms. Hall would have an opportunity to do so. The Committee asserts that the Chair merely wished to make an announcement regarding a visit to the shipyard and the MEPA comment period, and that the fuller discussion that took place was unanticipated. We disagree that a larger discussion was not reasonably anticipated. The shipyard expansion project was known to be of significant interest to the public and any meaningful discussion of it, which was anticipated 48 hours before the meeting, should have been included in the meeting notice. See OML 2014-47. On these facts, we find that the discussion of the Shipyard expansion was reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting, and therefore the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include that topic in the notice for its November 13 meeting. CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.  Sincerely,  Sarah Chase Assistant Attorney General Division of Open Government                                                                 3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Lynne Fraker (via e-mail: ) 
 Tisbury Natural Resources Committee c/o Town Administrator John Grande (via e-mail: 
 jgrande@tisburyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
