===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
June 16, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 69 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Andrew Waugh, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
awaugh@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Waugh: 
  
This office received a complaint from Hayley Fetrow and several other individuals on 
November 27, 2019,
1 alleging that the Holliston School Committee (the “School Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the School Committee on October 8, and you responded on behalf of the School Committee by 
letter dated October 30. The complaint alleges that the School Committee’s eight subcommittees, 
and in particular the School Start Times Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”), failed to create 
and approve meeting minutes as required by the Open Meeting Law.2  
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. The Subcommittee, 
which was comprised of three members out of the seven-member School Committee, held many 
meetings between 2016 and 2019. On November 25, the School Committee voted to disband the 
Subcommittee. Under the Open Meeting Law, subcommittees are public bodies in their own 
right and are fully subject to the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Public bodies subject to 
the Open Meeting Law must “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 In the request for further review the Complainant raised additional allegations relating to unethical behavior and 
conflicts of interest. The request for further review also sought our review of the school start time policy voted on by 
the School Committee. Our office interprets and enforces the Open Meeting Law only; therefore, we decline to 
review allegations of violation of other laws and decline to review the school start time policy.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely 
manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” 
However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” 
means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless 
the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). 
 
As a threshold matter, the School Committee argues that the complaint is untimely 
because it was filed more than thirty days after a May 16 School Committee vote regarding 
school start times. We disagree. The complaint alleges that the Subcommittee did not create or 
approve minutes for any of its numerous meetings held between September 2016 and October 
2019. The School Committee admits that the Subcommittee failed to create and approve minutes 
for its meetings. The Open Meeting Law imposes a continuing obligation to maintain minutes of 
all meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-45; OML 2018-115.
3 As of the date of the 
complaint, the Subcommittee had not created or approved minutes for any of its meetings. 
Therefore, the complaint was timely filed.   
 
The School Committee does not dispute that the Subcommittee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it failed to create and approve minutes for its meetings. The only issue left to 
address is whether actions taken by the School Committee were sufficient to remedy the 
violation. We find that they were not. The School Committee argues that the violation was 
remedied when the School Committee chair sent a memorandum to the School Committee 
stating, among other things, that all subcommittees must immediately begin creating and 
approving meeting minutes and must create and approve minutes for any meetings held on or 
after July 1, 2019. We find this action insufficient to remedy the Subcommittee’s failure to create 
meeting minutes going back to September 2016. Because the Subcommittee has been disbanded, 
we order the School Committee, within sixty days of receipt of this determination, to create and 
approve minutes for any Subcommittee meetings for which minutes have not yet been created 
and approved.
 See OML 2020-19; OML 2012-111. The School Committee must create these 
minutes to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the memories 
and individual notations of the attendees. We decline to vacate any votes taken by the School 
Committee, as the Complainant requests, because we find no evidence that the School 
Committee’s votes were taken in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
School Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Stacey Raffi, Chair of the Holliston School Committee (via e-mail:
RaffiS@hsc.holliston.k12.ma.us)
Hayley Fetrow (via e-mail:
Amy Behr (via e-mail:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.