===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
September 30, 2014 
OML 2014-120 
Brandon H. Moss, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 140 
Quiney, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Moss: 
This office received a complaint from Todd Gundlach, dated August 21, alleging that the 
Norwood Skating Rink Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, Mr. Gundlach alleges that the Committee is a regional public body 
and failed on May 27 to follow the requirements for posting meeting notices for regional public 
bodies. The complaint was filed with the Committee on May 28. The Committee responded by 
letter dated June 5.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is a local public body, and therefore 
does not need to follow the requirements for posting notices for a regional public body. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee; the 
Committee's response; and the complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice for 
the Committee's May 27 meeting. Additionally, we reviewed an August 26 email sent to our 
office by Mr. Gundlach, providing additional information in support of his complaint. Finally, 
we reviewed the relevant portions of the minutes of the Norwood Board of Selectmen's (the 
"Board") February 25 and February 26 meetings. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2014, unless otherwise specified. 
2 In its response to the complaint, the Committee states that the complaint was not timely filed because Mr. 
Gundlach should have been aware of the issue when he filed a prior Open Meeting Law complaint on April 11, and 
failed to file the present complaint within 30 days of that date. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). The 
present complaint is based on the notice for the Committee's meeting on May 27. Because this complaint 
challenging the form of that notice was filed one day later, we find the complaint to be timely. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Open Meeting Law requires that for meetings of a local public body, the public body 
file notice with the municipal clerk and post in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all 
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c). For meetings of a regional or district public body, the public body must file the notice in 
each city or town within the region or district in the manner prescribed for local public bodies. 
Id 
The Committee was created by the Board during the Board's February 25 and February 
26 meetings. The Board charged the Committee with certain responsibilities, and retained 
oversight of its members and its work. No other town has oversight over the Committee's work 
or appoints members to the Committee. Nevertheless, Mr. Gundlach argues that this is a 
regional public body because Chapters 286 of the Acts of 2014 provides state funding for the 
project, and refers to the facility as a "Regional Indoor Ice Skating Rink and Recreation Center." 
The state funding provision does not discuss the creation, duties, or oversight of any public body, 
however. 
We find that the Committee is a local public body. While the skating rink may be 
intended to serve a broader region, the Committee was created by the Town of Norwood's Board 
of Selectmen, consists entirely of members appointed by that town's Board, and is charged with 
overseeing a project being built entirely within the town of Norwood. Accordingly, we find that 
the Committee is a local public body, and thus it did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not 
following the requirements for posting notice of a meeting of a regional public body on May 27. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Norwood Skating Committee 
Todd Gundlach 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 