===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 15, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 115 
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By e-mail only: ghowayeck@fallriverma.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck:  
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 28, 2020, alleging that 
the Fall River Traffic Commission Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 29, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 27, after an extension of time granted 
by our office.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it met 
in person on July 29 but did not allow members of the public to physically attend the meeting, 
yet failed to provide live access to the meeting via remote means.  
  
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and video recording of the Board’s July 
29 meeting.2  We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the July 29 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0jzm1lwz02s.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,   
§ 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order temporarily suspends the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public.  The Executive Order relieves a public body from the requirement to hold its meetings in 
locations that are physically accessible to the public only if the public body provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access.  Specifically, the Executive Order provides that 
 
Adequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide 
transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of 
the public body. Such means may include, without limitation, providing public 
access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing 
or any other technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings 
of the public body while those activities are occurring.  
 
Executive Order at Section (1) (emphasis added). 
 
On July 16, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 29 at 4 P.M. in the 
Atrium of One Government Center.  The notice stated that due to COVID-19, “Government 
Center is closed to the public,” but that the “meeting will be available for viewing at 
HTTP://FRGTV.FREDTV.US and Channel 18.”  The July 29 meeting was held as planned and 
the Board met in the Atrium of One Government Center.  Although the Board may meet in 
person without providing the public physical access to the meeting location, it must then provide 
the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the 
proceedings in real time.  See OML 2020-100; Executive Order at Section (1).  Here, the 
meeting location for the July 29 meeting at One Government Center was “closed to the public” 
yet real-time access to the meeting was not provided on the Fall River Government Television 
website or on Channel 18.  As such, the public was effectively locked out of the meeting.  See 
OML 2014-118.  We acknowledge that the Board posted a recording of the July 29 meeting on 
the Fall River Government Television website shortly after the meeting.  However, because the 
Board failed to provide adequate, alternative means of access allowing the public to follow the 
proceedings of the July 29 meeting while those proceedings occurred in real time, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-107; OML 2020-67. 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By e-mail  only:  
Fall River Traffic Commission Board c/o Laura Ferreira, Manager of Traffic – By e-mail 
only: lferreira@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
