===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 6, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 121 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Joseph Callanan, Esq. 
 
 
jcallanan@weymouth.ma.us  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
This office received a complaint from Gerard Mackin on April 22, 2020, alleging that the 
Weymouth School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 31.1 Although the 
Committee requested, and was granted, two extensions of time from our office, the Committee 
did not respond to the complaint.2 In his complaint, Mr. Mackin alleges that the Committee 
failed to comply with our order in OML 2019-161 directing the Committee to publicly release 
certain executive session minutes. 
 We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In OML 2019-
161, after finding that the Committee had met in executive session for an improper purpose, we 
ordered the Committee to publicly release its December 20, 2018, executive session minutes. 
The Committee met on the evening of January 30, and voted to release the minutes in accordance 
with our order. On January 31, Attorney Callanan emailed our office and Mr. Mackin two links 
to the newly released minutes.3 Mr. Mackin replied twenty-four minutes later, copying a local 
reporter and several other people, that he was unable to find the minutes by following the two 
links. Fifteen minutes later, the reporter replied to Mr. Mackin that she was able to access the 
minutes and sent a direct link to the document. Mr. Mackin thanked the reporter for her 
assistance and stated that, “I could never have found that site[.]” Mr. Mackin filed this Open 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We remind the Committee of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days 
of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Meeting Law complaint a few hours later, alleging that the Committee failed to release the 
executive session minutes in accordance with our order.  
 
Although we acknowledge that the Committee did not release the executive session 
minutes to the public within 30 days of receipt of our prior order, but rather released the minutes 
within approximately 40 days, we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. The 
Committee, through its counsel, explained to our office that it had been unable to discuss and 
vote to release the minutes until a special meeting held on January 30, which was called 
specifically to discuss this matter as well as other of Mr. Mackin’s complaints. The Committee 
then released the minutes immediately thereafter. 
Finally, we note that the Committee had publicly released the December 20, 2018, 
meeting minutes, including by sending links to the minutes directly to Mr. Mackin, before Mr. 
Mackin filed this Open Meeting Law complaint. We encourage complainants to consider 
whether filing Open Meeting Law complaints regarding matters that have already been fully 
addressed is an appropriate use of the limited resources of the public body and of this office, and 
is necessary to advance the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental transparency.  
 We now consider the complaint  addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Gerald Mackin (via e-mail:  ) 
 Weymouth School Committee c/o Cha ir Lisa Belmarsh (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
