===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 109 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street  
Boston, MA 02110 
jaustin@k-plaw.com  
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Austin and Riley: 
 
This office received two complaints from Doreen Taylor on January 6 and 9, 2026, 
alleging that the Seekonk Select Board (the “Board”)
1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about December 8, 
2025, (the “First Complaint”) and December 23, 2025, (the “Second Complaint”). Attorney 
Austin responded to the First Complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 19, 
2025. Attorney Riley responded to the Second Complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated 
January 8, 2026.  
 
The complaints arise from the Town of Seekonk’s purchase of historic Medeiros Farm 
located in Seekonk and the development of a park at the farm. We understand the First 
Complaint to allege that 1) the Board failed to respond to a public records request
2 Ms. Taylor 
made for meeting minutes and notices; 2) the Board held improper executive sessions; 3) the 
 
1 The First Complaint also alleges that the Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting 
Law applies to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members; it does not apply to individual 
municipal officials. See OML Declination 3-26-2021 (City of Boston); OML Declination 8-4-2023 (Holyoke Mayor 
& City Solicitor). Therefore, we decline to review whether the Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law.  
2 The complaint references “FOIA” which is the acronym for the Freedom of Information Act, a federal law. We 
understand the request to have been made under the Massachusetts Public Records Law, G. L. c. 66, § 10.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board did not take certain votes in open session; 4) the warrant article related to purchase of 
Medeiros Farm was presented to Town Meeting by the chair of the Community Preservation 
Committee, not the chair of the Board; and 5) Justin Sullivan, the former chair of the Board, has 
a conflict of interest with respect to the Medeiros Farm project. The Second Complaint alleges 
that 1) between August 4, 2021, and June 22, 2022, the Board held six improper executive 
sessions; 2) the Board did not take certain votes in open session; 3) the Board did not discuss the 
First Complaint in sufficient detail during its December 17, 2025, meeting and had a prepared 
response drafted by legal counsel; and 4) although there are individuals serving on the Medeiros 
Farm Committee created by Town Meeting, the Board did not appoint these individuals.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review the First Complaint.   
 
Open Meeting Law complainants must allege violations of the Open Meeting Law with a 
degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations. See OML Declination 7-19-2023 (Board of Registration in Medicine); 
OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors).3 Furthermore, the Division of 
Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25, only. As such, we decline to review allegations that, even if true, would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 5-15-2025 (Wilmington Select 
Board) (request for meeting minutes made under the Public Records Law implicates that law and 
not the Open Meeting Law); OML Declination 3-20-2025 (Swansea Board of Selectmen) (the 
Open Meeting Law does not govern procedures for Town Meeting); OML Declination 11-3-
2023 (Massachusetts Board of Elementary and Secondary Education) (the Division of Open 
Government does not review allegations of conflicts of interest); OML Declination 10-2-2025 
(Lynn City Council) (in general, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
discuss any particular matter nor take any particular vote). 
 
To begin, the First Complaint appears to be a request that the Division conduct the type 
of broad audit that we have consistently declined to conduct. For example, the complaint alleges 
a violation date of “2021 – continues” and although the complaint alleges that executive sessions 
were improperly held, it does not identify any particular executive sessions alleged to have been 
improperly held. See OML Declination 6-6-2022 (Truro School Committee) (declining to review 
complaint where it did not identify any particular meeting alleged to have violated the Open 
Meeting Law); OML 2024-204 (declining to review allegation that 24 sets of executive session 
meeting minutes were insufficient where complaint did not identify any particular insufficiency).  
 
Additionally, we understand the First Complaint to allege that
 the Board did not vote to 
designate the chair of the Community Preservation Committee as designee to negotiate the 
purchase price for Medeiros Farm nor vote to accept the appraisal of the property in open 
session. In general, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss any 
particular matter or take any particular votes; rather, the Open Meeting Law requires that if a 
quorum of a public body will discuss a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction it must do so 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
during a properly held meeting. See OML Declination 10-2-2025 (Lynn City Council). As such, 
an allegation that the Board failed to vote on certain matters, even if true, would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.4 The First Complaint further alleges that the Board failed to 
respond to a public records request; that the former chair of the Board, Justin Sullivan, has a 
conflict of interest regarding the Medeiros Farm project; and that the warrant article related to 
the purchase of the property was presented at Town Meeting by the chair of the Community 
Preservation Committee, not the Board. Again, even if true, none of these allegations would 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review them. 
 
II. We find that the Second Complaint was timely filed with respect to the allegation 
that the Board improperly met in executive session.   
 
To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably 
have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date on which the alleged 
violation could reasonably have been discovered. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
The Board asserts in its answer to the Second Complaint that with respect to the allegations 
concerning improper executive sessions, the complaint is untimely. We disagree. Based on 
information provided with the Board’s response to the Second Complaint, we understand that 
Ms. Taylor was provided with copies of the executive session minutes she had requested in her 
public records request on December 10, 2025. Because the executive session discussions, by 
their nature, occurred behind closed doors, the substance of those discussions could not have 
been discovered until the meeting minutes were released, in this case on December 10, 2025. 
Therefore, we find the Second Complaint, filed with the Board on December 23, 2025, was 
timely with respect to the allegation that the Board’s discussions were improper for executive 
session.
5 See 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML 2020-14, n.5; OML 2011-28.  
 
III. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in 
executive session to discuss the purchase of Medeiros Farm.  
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless an executive 
session is properly convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
One such statutory purpose is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property 
if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  
 
Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of property to be 
purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its 
negotiations for the property. See District Attv. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 2016-50; OML 2019-10. We construe 
 
4 To the extent this allegation was intended to allege that the Board engaged in improper deliberation outside of a 
posted meeting, we find that this is not clearly raised and furthermore lacks the level of specificity required for an 
Open Meeting Law complaint.  
5 Although Ms. Taylor again does not identify by date any particular executive sessions alleged to be improper, we 
find here that the allegation is sufficiently specific where there is a limited date range and where the Second 
Complaint identifies specific topics discussed that are alleged to be improper. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Purpose 6 narrowly to permit a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating 
position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real 
estate, where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See Allen v. Board of 
Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2018-49. General 
discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating 
position to protect, do not fall within the executive session purpose. See OML 2020-158 
(discussion of development agreement covering many topics was improper under Purpose 6 
where board had no negotiating position relative to the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of the 
property); OML 2020-14 (discussion of Chapter 40B development was improper under Purpose 
6 where discussions did not relate to the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property); 
OML 2019-59 (discussion of conservation restriction was improper under Purpose 6 where 
discussion did not relate to the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property). The public 
body bears the burden of demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose. 
See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009).  
 
The Second Complaint alleges that in executive sessions held between August 4, 2021, 
and June 22, 2022, inclusive, the Board discussed matters related to the Medeiros Farm that were 
not proper for executive session. Specifically, the complaint identifies the following topics as 
being improper for executive session: “Information for field use, Naming the athletic fields, 
Preserving buildings for 30 years, Parking spaces/ADA compliance, Field Rentals, Using[] 
Community Preservation Monies for turf fields, Field Lighting, Meeting with the Neighbors, 
Curfews, Designing fields and parking spots and questions surrounding adding more fields if 
needed.”  
 
At first blush, these topics appear to be improper for discussion under Purpose 6 where 
many of them relate to the use of the property. However, after close review of the executive 
session minutes and further communications with legal counsel, we understand that these topics 
related directly to the Board’s negotiation to purchase Medeiros Farm. For example, the 
development and naming of athletic fields, preserving buildings, and field lighting were all 
points of negotiation between the Board and the seller. Likewise, discussion of whether 
Community Preservation Act funds might be available related to the Board’s negotiating 
position. Therefore, we find that, on the whole, the Board’s discussions were appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 6. See OML 2023-240 (discussion of a 40B project not 
inappropriate for executive session where new information suggesting that the project would not 
be approved threw into question whether the agreement being negotiated between the town and a 
private corporation to co-purchase property would substantially change or fail altogether); OML 
2014-36 (“This office acknowledges that price is but one of many factors that may be considered 
by a public body in the course of such transactions . . . .”).  
 
Although we find no violation here, we remind the Board that it is incumbent upon the 
public body to monitor its discussions in executive session to ensure that all matters discussed 
are appropriate for executive session and fall within the purpose cited as the reason for 
convening in executive session. It may be the case that discussion of some portions of a larger 
topic will be appropriate for executive session while discussions of other portions of the same 
larger topic may not be appropriate for executive session.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
IV. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to its 
review of the First Complaint. 
 
We understand the Second Complaint to allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it failed to discuss the First Complaint in sufficient detail during its December 17, 
2025, meeting and because the Town’s legal counsel had drafted a proposed response to the First 
Complaint prior to the Board meeting on December 17. Within 14 business days of receiving an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the chair must distribute the complaint to all members of the 
public body, the public body must meet to review the complaint, and the public body must then 
respond to the complainant in writing and provide our office a copy of the complaint and the 
response. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Once a public body has reviewed a 
complaint during a meeting, its decision to simply refer the complaint, rather than discuss its 
substance, is the public body’s prerogative. See OML 2019-40; OML 2017-96. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to substantively discuss the merits of the complaint 
in detail. See OML 2021-128. A public body may review a complaint during a meeting and refer 
the complaint to a designee, such as legal counsel, to respond, or a designee may receive the 
complaint and draft a response for the public body to review at the meeting during which it will 
review the complaint; the public body may not, however, remove itself entirely from the process. 
See OML 2020-164. We find no violation with respect to the allegations that the Board did not 
discuss the First Complaint in sufficient detail and that legal counsel drafted a response prior to 
the Board’s meeting to review the First Complaint. 
 
V. We decline to review the remaining allegations raised in the Second Complaint.  
 
Finally, the Second Complaint again alleges that the Board failed to vote on various 
matters and additionally asserts that its failure to do so violated various Town bylaws and 
processes. The Second Complaint also alleges that the Board has failed to appoint members to 
the Medeiros Farm Committee, in violation of Town bylaws. As explained above, the Division 
of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, only. Where 
these allegations, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review them. See OML 2021-9; OML Declination 1-19-2016 (Southborough Zoning 
Board of Appeals).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we decline to review the First Complaint and portions of the 
Second Complaint. With respect to the allegations that the Board improperly met in executive 
session and failed to properly review the First Complaint, we find no violation. We now consider 
the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Seekonk Select Board  c/o Shawn Cadime, Town Administrator  
(via email: scadime@seekonk-ma.gov) 
Seekonk Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@seekonk-ma.gov) 
Doreen Taylor (via email:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
