===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 5, 2016 
OML 2016 - 91 
David Katseff, Chair 
Dighton-Rehoboth Regional Agreement 
Amendment Committee 
4 Apple Valley Drive 
Rehoboth, MA 02769 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Chair Katseff: 
This office received two complaints from Michael Deignan on April 15, 2016 and 
April 25, 2016, alleging that the Dighton-Rehoboth Regional Agreement Amendment 
Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about February 27, 2016 and 
March 10, 2016, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letters dated April 1, 
2016 and April 18, 2016.' In his first complaint, Mr. Deignan alleges that the Committee 
failed to respond to a request for minutes and failed to create and approve minutes in a timely 
manner. Mr. Deignan's second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to properly 
respond to the first complaint and deliberated outside of a meeting about its response. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create and approve minutes in a timely manner and by deliberating by email. 
However, we find that the Committee properly responded to Mr. Deignan's first Open 
Meeting Law complaint. In reaching our decision, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Committee's responses, and the complaints filed with our office, requesting further review. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee, created by the Dighton-Rehoboth 
Regional School District School Committee (the School Committee) in 2014, is charged with 
reviewing and proposing revisions to the School Committee's Regional Agreements between 
the District's member communities. The Committee is a twelve-member public body, thus 
seven members constitute a quorum. During a meeting of the Rehoboth Board of Selectmen 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
(the Board) on February 16, 2016, the complainant hand-delivered a request for all of the 
Committee's meeting minutes to Committee Chair David Katseff, who had attended the 
meeting to make a presentation to the Board on the Committee's findings.2 Chair Katseff 
informed the complainant that the Committee did not have written minutes of its meetings, 
but that there were video-recordings of all of the meetings. The complainant informed him 
that the Committee's failure to prepare meeting minutes violated the Open Meeting Law. 
This complaint followed several weeks later, on February 27, 2016. 
On February 28, 2016, Committee member Christopher Andrade sent an email to the 
Committee, attaching a copy of the complaint. In his email, Mr. Andrade stated, "We may 
need to schedule a meeting to discuss a response.. .David & 1 will be working to get the draft 
minutes to you soon so they can be voted on and delivered" to the complainant. Committee 
member Ed Swartz responded to the email, copying the Committee and stating, "Can 
someone explain how this violates the open meeting law. Meeting (sic) were posted and open 
to the public as well as most have been videotaped and as for a record the red line updates act 
as the actions taken by the committee." 
On March 7, 2016, Chair Katseff sent a letter by email to the complainant stating, 
"Attached is our response to your OML complaint. We will keep you updated on our progress 
in complying with the OML complaint." In the attached letter. Chair Katseff stated that the 
Committee planned to discuss the process for creating minutes at its upcoming meeting on 
March 10, 2016. In addition, Chair Katseff requested an extension of time to respond to the 
complaint, stating, "I am (by copy of this complaint response) asking the Attorney General's 
office for a 30 calendar day extension." Chair Katseff submitted an amended request for an 
extension of time to respond to the complaint several days later, which our office received and 
granted on March 17, 2016, allowing the Committee until April 1, 2016 to respond to the 
complaint. 
On March 10, 2016, the complainant filed a second complaint with the Committee, 
alleging that the Committee did not follow the proper procedures for responding to his first 
Open Meeting Law complaint, filed with the Committee on February 27, 2016. According to 
Chair Katseff, however, his initial letter sent to the complainant on March 7, 2016 was not 
intended to be the Committee's response to the complaint. Instead, this letter was intended as 
an outline for the steps the Committee planned to take in order to respond to the complaint. 
Following a Committee meeting held on March 31, 2016 during which the Committee 
discussed its response to both complaints. Chair Katseff sent a letter by email on April 1, 
2016 to our office and the complainant, stating, "This letter and email will serve as our 
2 The request also asked the Committee for its agendas. The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting 
minutes and for documents used at a meeting of a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Requests for other documents 
are governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. Our review concerns only compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, thus we decline to review the allegation as it pertains to documents other than minutes and refer 
the complainant to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's office if he wishes to 
appeal the Board's response. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
response to the OML complaint filed (received) on 2/29/16." Included in this response were 
draft minutes for all of the Committee meetings. 
On April 14, 2016, the Committee approved all prior meeting minutes,3 with the 
exception of minutes from a meeting held on October 16, 2014, which were approved on May 
12, 2016. Since the filing of these complaints, the Committee has established a procedure for 
drafting and approving minutes within two weeks of each meeting. Additionally, the 
Committee has pledged to review our office's Open Meeting Law Guide. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law also requires 
that the "[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. The 
minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made 
available upon request by any person within ten days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open 
Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve minutes of all meetings in a timely 
manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The law does not provide a definition of "timely manner," but 
a public body should approve minutes at the next meeting where possible. See OML 2012-
91.4 For bodies that meet regularly, we have concluded that a delay of two to three months in 
approving minutes does not comply with the law. See OML 2016-62. 
I. Meeting Minutes. 
Because the Committee had not drafted minutes for any of its meetings at the time of 
the complainant's request, the Committee could not have provided them within 10 days and 
therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. See OML 2014-95; OML 
2014-73. Chair Katseff verbally informed the complainant of this fact during the Board's 
meeting, but should have, as a best practice, followed up with a written response within 10 
days, informing him that the requested minutes did not yet exist in either draft or final form. 
See OML 2015-173. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, however, by failing to 
create and approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Here, the 
Committee failed to create minutes from any of its meetings, including the earliest meetings 
held almost eighteen months earlier when the Committee was first formed. The Committee 
clearly violated the law in this regard, but we commend the Committee for creating and 
approving the missing minutes in response to this complaint. 
3 The Committee approved minutes from the following meetings; September 30, 2014; November 4, 2014; 
December 2, 2014; December 16, 2014; January 20, 2015; February 3, 2015; February 12, 2015; February 26, 
2015; April 9, 2015; June 4, 2015; June 18, 2015; October 6, 2015; November 3, 2015; and March 10, 2016. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
II. Response to Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in responding to the 
February 27, 2016 complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless our office grants 
an extension, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint the public body shall review 
the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney 
General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Although Chair Katseff s cover email to the complainant on 
March 7, 2016 indicated that the attached letter was "our response," the letter outlined the 
steps that the Committee planned to take in responding to the complaint and, at the end, 
requested an extension of time to respond from our office. While the email and 
accompanying letter could have been clearer, we credit Chair Katseff s assertion that it was 
not intended to be the Committee's response to the complaint. Following an extension 
granted by our office, the Committee met to discuss the complaint and sent its response to the 
complaint by the extended deadline. Accordingly, the Committee followed the proper 
procedures for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. 
The Committee should not have discussed the complaint by email, however. The 
Open Meeting Law requires communication between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction to take place during a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. The law does afford a limited exception to the definition of "deliberation" for the 
distribution of certain administrative documents, such as a meeting agenda or scheduling 
information, provided that no opinion of a public body member is expressed. Id. (emphasis 
added). This exception applies only if the public body member sending the communication 
does not include any statement of opinion. See OML 2016-31. Here, Mr. Andrade's 
February 28, 2016 email to the Committee in which he attaches the complainant's February 
27, 2016 Open Meeting Law complaint would have been appropriate had he just sent the 
attachment for discussion at the Committee's next meeting. See OML 2015-33. However, 
Mr. Andrade's email went beyond this exception by informing the Committee about the status 
of the Committee's meeting minutes; a topic squarely within the Committee's jurisdiction. 
Additionally, Committee member Ed Swartz's response should not have been sent to the 
entire Committee as it constituted his opinion on whether the Committee had violated the 
Open Meeting Law, a topic he should have saved for the meeting during which the 
Committee discussed the complaint. See OML 2016-52; OML 2013-136. Accordingly, we 
find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by communicating by email on 
February 28, 2016. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create and 
approve minutes in a timely manner and by deliberating by email. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the 
Committee to disclose the contents of the emails at issue during a properly posted meeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Deignan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
5 