===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 54 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Hayley A. Reifeiss, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
hreifeiss@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reifeiss: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cory Bombredi on August 1, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Barre Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 30, and, after an extension of 
time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 28. The 
complaint alleges that the Board 1) held meetings in a building that was closed to the public; 2) 
amended meeting notices within 48 hours of the meetings; and 3) included on a meeting notice 
the name of a Town Administrator who had recently resigned.2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the meeting notices and 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the Town’s bylaws by failing to broadcast its meetings. 
However, the request for further review acknowledges that this allegation falls outside of the Open Meeting Law 
and therefore outside of the Division of Open Government’s review. Indeed, we would decline to review an 
allegation that a public body failed to comply with Town bylaws where, even if true, such an allegation would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML 2025-79, n.4; OML Declination 
10-3-2024 (Wareham Select Board); OML 2023-230.  
===PAGE 2===
minutes for Board meetings held on June 13, 16, and 20. Finally, we viewed video recordings of 
the Board’s meetings held on June 16 at 10:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.3,4 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the relevant facts as follows.  
 
The June 13 meeting 
 
On Tuesday, June 10 at 1:49 p.m., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Friday, June 13 at 11:45 a.m. The location of the meeting was listed as the Henry Woods 
Building, Select Board Meeting Room. The notice also stated that the meeting would be 
broadcast live and digitally recorded. The sole substantive notice topic was an executive session 
to be held under Purpose 3 regarding the fire department union.
5 The notice was amended at least 
three times, including an amendment made on June 11 to remove the statement that the meeting 
would be broadcast live and digitally recorded and to add a second executive session discussion, 
this one under Purpose 6 to discuss the Barre Reservoir Dam.6  
 
The June 13 meeting was held as scheduled, with the Board meeting at the Henry Woods 
Building, which serves as the Barre Town Hall. Some offices within the building are closed to 
the public on Fridays; however, the main entrance to the building was open for the duration of 
the meeting. The complainant himself asserts that the door was propped open with a rock and 
that he was able to access the building. Additionally, because the door locks electronically, the 
Board was able to provide a log showing that the door was open for the duration of the meeting. 
The Board convened in open session. Board member Mark Regienus moved to convene in 
executive session for the purposes stated in the meeting notice and announced that the Board 
would reconvene in open session for the sole purpose of adjourning. The Board then voted 
favorably by roll call to enter executive session and thereafter convened in executive session.  
 
The June 16, 10:30 a.m. meeting  
 
 On June 9, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 16 at 10:30 a.m. at 
the Henry Woods Building, in the Select Board Meeting Room. The notice listed the following 
topics: 
 
 
3 A video recording of the June 16 10:30 a.m. meeting was accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xkWVqHIsiQ. A video recording of the June 16 6:00 p.m. meeting was 
accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FVoGvzE2Aag.  
4 Along with the complaint, the complainant submitted a 151-page document purporting to be “a historical record 
showing a pattern of short-notice and same-day agenda changes dating back several years.” Our office does not 
perform broad audits of public bodies nor can we review alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law that occurred, 
or were reasonably discoverable, more than 30 days prior to a complaint being filed with the public body. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML 2024-204; OML 2014-103. 
5 Purpose 3 allows a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
6 Purpose 6 allows a public body to convene in executive session to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value 
of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body.” G.L. c. 6, § 21(a)(6).  
===PAGE 3===
Open Meeting 
New Business 
Review & Vote Annual Town Meeting Warrant  Articles to take place on June 24, 
2025 
Review & Vote Proposition 2 ½ Ballot Question for Special Election to take place 
on August 5, 2025 
Adjourn 
 
The notice was amended a few times, including on June 16 at 9:13 a.m. This amendment was 
made to include the hours—8:00 a.m. to 7: 00 p.m.—for the proposed special election. 
 
 The 10:30 a.m. meeting was held as sche duled. During the meeting the Chair of the 
Board, Maureen Marshall, introduced the Town Meeting Warrant, summarizing or reading aloud 
each article. Thereafter, Chair Marshall called for a motion to accept the warrant as presented. 
Board member Richard Stevens moved as such and the Board voted favorably to accept warrant 
as written.  
 
Thereafter, the Executive Assistant, Sandra Hood, inquired whether the Board would be 
voting later that day on the Board’s recommendations for each article. Chair Marshall stated in 
response that she was not sure if the Board would vote that evening after “the hearing.” Chair 
Marshall explained that typically the Board does not vote on recommendations for warrant 
articles until it is almost time to go to the floor of Town Meeting. Ms. Hood explained that a vote 
on recommendations for the articles was not included in the notice for the Board’s 6:00 p.m. 
meeting. Chair Marshall responded, stating that that did not matter as the Board could take the 
vote and then ratify it later.
7 Chair Marshall again explained that the Board typically votes on 
warrant articles immediately prior to the Town Meeting.   
 
Finally, when the Board reached the notice topic regarding the Proposition 2 ½ override 
special election, Chair Marshall read the warrant article and the ballot question related to the 
Proposition 2½ override, and the Board voted to approve them both as read. The meeting then 
adjourned.  
  
The June 16, 6:00 p.m. meeting  
  
 On June 12, the Board posted notice for a m eeting to be held on June 16 at 6:00 p.m. at 
the Henry Woods Building, in the Select Board Meeting Room. The notice listed approximately 
eleven substantive topics. The notice was amended at least three times, two of which occurred on 
June 16, the day of the meeting. Relevant here, the notice was amended on June 16 to include the 
topic “Vote Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles to take place on June 24, 2025.” 
 
 The 6:00 p.m. meeting was held as schedul ed. When the Board reached the notice topic 
regarding the Town Meeting warrant articles, Chair Marshall explained that the Board was going 
to go quickly through each article and vote to recommend, not recommend, or take no action at 
 
7 We note some concern with this comment. As explained below, a public body may discuss and even vote on an 
unanticipated topic without that topic being included on the meeting notice. However, a public body may not discuss 
or vote on a topic that was not included on the meeting notice but which was anticipated, or reasonably should have 
been anticipated, 48 hours or more (excluding holidays and weekends) prior to the meeting.  
===PAGE 4===
this time; she also asserted that these votes were perfunctory. The Board then addressed each 
article, voting to recommend, not recommend, or take no action at that time. During this 
discussion, Chair Marshall noted that the Warrant had been posted earlier that day.   
 
The June 20 meeting  
 
On June 17, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Friday, June 20 at 11:45 
a.m. at the Henry Woods Building, Select Board Meeting Room. The June 20 meeting was held 
as scheduled. Once again, although some offices within the building are closed to the public on 
Fridays, the main entrance of the building was open for the duration of the meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board’s June 13 and June 20 meetings were accessible. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open and 
accessible to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
Prior to convening in executive session, the public body must perform certain convening 
procedures; these procedures must occur during an open session that is accessible to the public. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see also, OML 2024-149 (“We note that the procedural requirements for 
convening in executive session are intended to protect the public’s right to know when a public 
body is discussing matters behind closed doors, and the reasons its members believe a private 
discussion is warranted.”); OML 2018-95 (“The public has a right to witness these procedural 
steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the executive session.”).8  
 
In general, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. In order for a meeting to be “open to the 
public,” the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the open session 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-46; OML 2014-118. Ideally, doors necessary to 
access meeting locations should not be locked. However, we have found that a meeting in a 
locked building is sufficiently accessible where members of the public can promptly access the 
building by notifying personnel or knocking on a window. See OML 2011-52. In addition, for a 
meeting to be truly “open to the public” it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons 
with disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); see also OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings of 
public bodies must be held in locations that are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities 
Act). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board held meetings on June 13 and June 20 that were 
inaccessible to the public because they were held on Fridays in the Henry Woods Building, a 
building that is generally closed to the public on Fridays. However, the complaint acknowledges, 
at least with respect to the June 13 meeting, that the door to the main entrance was propped open 
with a rock. Furthermore, it is clear that the complainant was able to gain access to the building, 
where the complaint explains that he saw a sign on the meeting room door that read “Executive 
Session.”  
 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 5===
 
The Board explains that, with respect to both meetings, although town offices are closed 
to the public on Fridays, the main entrance of the Henry Woods Building was open for the 
duration of each meeting. The Board has submitted logs supporting this assertion. Additionally, 
with respect to the June 13 meeting, the Board explains that although it met in open session to 
perform the necessary convening procedures, the complainant did not arrive until after the Board 
was already convened in executive session.  
 
Based on the information before us, including the complainant’s own assertions, we find 
that the Board’s June 13 and June 20 meetings were accessible to the public. To the extent the 
complaint alleges that the complainant was unable to access the June 13 executive session, we 
find no violation where a public body may exclude the public from a properly held executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, §18 (defining Executive Session: “any part of a meeting of a public 
body closed to the public for deliberation of certain matters”); OML 2024-178 (members of the 
public have no right to attend executive session and it was not a violation to require members of 
the public to leave the building and lock the door after the executive session was properly 
convened).9 
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by amending its meeting notices. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a 
list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, 
reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the 
meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-
152. Public bodies must list anticipated topics on a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  
 
A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to add a 
previously unanticipated topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29. Likewise, a public 
body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even without having included it on a 
meeting notice. However, the Attorney General recommends that public bodies, as a matter of 
best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order 
to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting if the topic can wait until a 
subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. 
 
First, to the extent the complaint alleges that amending a meeting notice within 48 hours 
of a meeting, in and of itself, violates the Open Meeting Law, this is not the case. As explained 
above, a public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of the meeting to include a 
truly unanticipated topic. That said, we note that the notices we reviewed were amended several 
times. We caution the Board that it may not amend meeting notices within 48 hours of the 
meeting to include reasonably anticipated topics. We further note that repeated amendments to a 
notice may create the appearance of improper amendment.  
 
 
9 Although we find no violation here, please note that public meetings must be held in a manner that complies with 
the Americans with Disabilities Act. 
===PAGE 6===
Next, the complaint alleges that the notice for the 10:30 a.m. meeting held on June 16 
was amended at 9:13 a.m. on June 16 “to include votes on Annual Town Meeting warrant 
articles and override ballot language.” This is not the case. The original notice for the 10:30 a.m. 
meeting included the topics “Review & Vote Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles to take 
place on June 24, 2025” and “Review & Vote Proposition 2 ½ Ballot Question for Special 
Election to take place on August 5, 2025” (emphasis added). Instead, the notice was amended at 
9:13 a.m. to add the hours for the proposed special election—8: 00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.—which the 
Board explains were not known until June 16.10  
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the notice for the 6:00 p.m. meeting held on June 16 
was improperly amended at 1:07 p.m. that day to include a vote on the Town Meeting warrant 
articles. The complaint further asserts that the amendment to the notice of the 6:00 p.m. meeting 
was a reversal of Chair Marshall’s representation during the 10:30 a.m. meeting that the Board 
would not vote on warrant articles that evening. The Board asserts that it was not anticipated that 
the Board would vote on warrant article recommendations at the 6:00 p.m. meeting until, on the 
day of the meeting, the Town Clerk requested that the Board add their recommendations to the 
warrant articles before the Town Meeting packet went to print.  
 
As the Board notes, when evaluating whether a particular topic was reasonably 
anticipated for discussion such that it needed to be included on a meeting notice posted 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting, we look to whether the topic was reasonably anticipated for 
discussion at the particular meeting for which notice was posted, not merely to whether a chair 
was generally aware of the matter. See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-26. At the same time, we have 
explained that when the need to take action on a matter by a particular date is known, the topic is 
“reasonably” anticipated, even if the chair did not actually think to include the topic. To find 
otherwise would render meaningless the requirement that meeting notices include a list of the 
topics that are “reasonably” anticipated for discussion. See OML 2024-6; OML 2023-148 
(finding that approval of certain agreements during the last meeting of the year was a 
“reasonably” anticipated topic where the agreements needed to be approved by the end of the 
year as they had been each of the prior 15 years); OML 2021-201; OML 2021-146; 2021-121.  
 
Based on the information before us, including the video recording of the 10:30 a.m. 
meeting, we find that the Board did not reasonably anticipate that it would discuss and vote on its 
recommendations for the Town Meeting warrant articles at either of its June 16 meetings. 
Indeed, when the Executive Assistant asked during the 10:30 a.m. meeting whether the Board 
would vote on recommendations later that day, Chair Marshall explained that the Board does not 
typically vote on recommendations until the articles are almost ready to go to the floor at Town 
Meeting. Furthermore, the Board explains that it was the Town Clerk’s wish that the Board vote 
on recommendations prior to printing the warrant and that Chair Marshall did not anticipate 
taking up these votes. In the request for further review, the complainant asserts that amendment 
of the notice for the 6:00 p.m. meeting to include the warrant articles was “purposeful and 
coordinated circumvention of the Open Meeting Law.” The complainant has not provided any 
evidence supporting this claim and we find no evidence supporting such a claim.  
 
10 Furthermore, we have consistently explained that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action 
following discussion of a topic and that, except in certain circumstances, the Open Meeting Law does not require 
that a public body indicate on its meeting notice that a vote may be taken. See OML 2023-186; OML 2021-153; 
OML 2019-157; OML 2019-36; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. 
===PAGE 7===
 
For the reasons explained above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when, on June 16, it amended the notices for its June 16 meetings.  
 
III. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by including the former Town 
Administrator’s name on a meeting notice. 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the Board’s June 13 meeting violated the Open 
Meeting Law because it listed Tammy Martin as the Town Administrator and Ms. Martin had 
resigned as Town Administrator prior to posting of the notice. The complaint further alleges that 
including Ms. Martin’s name on the notice misled “the public about who was responsible for the 
meeting and its compliance.” First, the Open Meeting Law does not require that the Town 
Administrator be listed on meeting notices. Second, responsibility for complying with all aspects 
of the Open Meeting Law, including notice posting requirements, rests with the public body, not 
with specific municipal staff. See OML 2019-152, n.3; OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town 
Clerk). For these reasons, we find no violation with respect to this allegation.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       E l i z a b e t h  C a r n e s  F l y n n  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Maureen Marshall, Chair, Barre Select Bo ard (via email: mmarshall@townofbarre.com)  
 Ellen M. Glidden, Barre Town Cler k (via email: clerk@townofbarre.com ) 
Cory Bombredi (via email:  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
