===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 105 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Colleen Mejia 
Everett City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor, Everett City Hall 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on February 1, 2021, alleging 
that the Everett Board of Licensing Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 25, 
2020, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 25, 2021.1 The 
complaint alleges that all three members of the Board did not comply with the certification 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.2  
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
comply with the certification requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, and the Open Meeting Law Certification forms for Board members Philip 
 
1 We note that the Board responded to the complaint well outside of the 14 business days allowed for under the Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind the Board of its obligation to comply with all provisions of the 
Open Meeting Law, including the obligation to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints. 
2 To the extent the complaint alleges that other individuals who are not members of the Board, or another public 
body, failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law, we note that the Open Meeting Law applies only to public 
bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we decline to review 
any allegation that individuals who are not members of the Board, or another public body, violated the Open 
Meeting Law.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Antonelli, Filippo Arloro, and Michael Dantone. We also communicated with Counsel for the 
Board3 by email. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 . . . . The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open Meeting Law regulations 
further clarify that, upon a public body member’s qualification for office, the municipal clerk 
shall provide the required materials to the public body member and the public body member 
shall sign the certification within two weeks thereafter. 940 CMR 29.04(1), (3). 
 
In response to a request from our office, the Board provided the date each member 
qualified for office and produced a completed certification form for each of the three members. 
Chairman Antonelli qualified for office on February 10, 2020, and completed his certification 
form more than one year later on February 11, 2021. Member Arloro qualified for office on 
November 23, 2020, and completed his certification form more than eleven weeks later on 
February 11, 2021. Finally, member Dantone qualified for office on November 23, 2020, and 
completed his certification form more than fifteen weeks later on March 9, 2021.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when all of its members failed to comply with the certification requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
law. Although we reject the Complainant’s requested relief that all three members of the Board 
be removed from office and that action taken by the Board be vacated, we note that failure to 
comply with the certification requirement of the Open Meeting Law is not a mere technical 
violation as it raises real concern as to whether each Board member “has read and understands 
the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 
20(h). 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Alexis Kenney, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
 Chairman Philip Antonelli (  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
