===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
March 5, 2018 
OML 2018-28 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated June 9, 2017, alleging that 
the Swansea Advisory & Finance Nominating Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with Committee on 
May 24, 2017, and the Committee responded by letter dated June 6, 2017. In this complaint, Mr, 
Higgins alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this complaint. Following 
our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We spoke with the Committee's legal counsel by 
telephone on February 16, 2018, and we reviewed a supplementary response from the 
Committee's legal counsel sent to us by e-mail on this same date.1 
FACTS 
At issue is a body created by the former version of Swansea Town Bylaw Section 2-88. 
The former version of this bylaw provided that the town moderator, prior to each annual 
financial town meeting, would designate a committee of three members—the Committee— to 
assist the town moderator in appointing new members to the Swansea Advisory & Finance 
Committee.2 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 Section 2-88 was amended by vote of a special town meeting on October 30, 2017. The current version of Section 
2-88 provides that the town moderator will nominate new members to the Advisory & Finance Committee, to be 
confirmed by town meeting, but it does not provide for a multiple-member committee assisting the town moderator 
in the nomination process. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
On or before May 15, 2017, the town moderator contacted Committee members 
individually asking for their opinions of potential nominees. In these conversations, the 
moderator stated that unless the member objected, he intended to nominate certain individuals 
that he had pre-selected to the Advisory & Finance Committee. The moderator would then move 
on to the next Committee member, not relaying what he had discussed on the earlier call. 
DISCUSSION 
Under the Open Meeting Law, all meetings of public bodies must be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), (b). The law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is, in turn, defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction." Id. (emphasis added). For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
quorum is a simple majority of the public body members. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
To the extent a person speaks to members of a public body individually, and those comments are 
not relayed to a quorum of the body in a serial manner, such conversations do not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. The Committee's response stated that the Committee members did not 
discuss business between or among each other, and, absent sufficient evidence, we credit a 
public body's version of the facts. See OML 2017-170.3 Having been provided with no 
evidence showing communication between a quorum of the Committee, we find that no such 
improper deliberation occurred, and we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2017-193. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Advisory & Finance Committee 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 