===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 8, 2018 
OML 2018-1 
Peter Ebb, Esq. 
Ropes & Gray, LLP 
Prudential Tower, 800 Boylston Street 
Boston, MA 02199 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ebb: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard, Esq., dated October 20, 2017, 
alleging that the Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on August 10, 2017, and you responded by e-mail on behalf of the Committee on 
August 30, 2017. In his complaint. Attorney Ballard alleges that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed an e-mail sent by 
Committee chair Amy Krishnamurthy to the other Committee member on July 23, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is an eleven-member public body, 
consisting of seven members from Acton and four members from Boxborough. Pursuant to the 
regional school agreement between the two towns, a quorum of the Committee consists of no 
fewer than four members from Acton and no fewer than two members from Boxborough. Prior 
to the events at issue in this letter, conflict arose between the complainant and the Committee 
members. Part of this conflict involved statements and social media posts that members of the 
Committee considered to be threatening. 
On July 23, 2017, Committee chair Amy Krishnamurthy sent an e-mail to all other 
Committee members. The e-mail summarized a conversation that she and another Committee 
member had with the Acton deputy police chief concerning the communication that the 
Committee members perceived as threatening. The e-mail described certain procedures and 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
actions recommended by the deputy chief to avoid or mitigate allegedly threatening situations, 
including a request that a police detail be present at future Committee meetings. It does not 
appear that any Committee members responded to this e-mail. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18, "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction.'" Id. (emphasis added). A one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body's jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2015-33.1 
Here, the complaint alleges that Ms. Krishnamurthy's July 23, 2017 e-mail to the 
Committee reporting on her conversation with the Acton Police Department constituted improper 
deliberation outside of a noticed meeting. In response, the Committee argues that this was not a 
matter of "public business within its jurisdiction" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. We 
therefore consider whether the matter discussed in the July 23, 2017 e-mail indeed falls within 
the Committee's charge. We have found in previous determination letters that a discussion was 
outside a body's jurisdiction where it concerned purely interpersonal dynamics, see OML 2011-
38, a completed decision over which the body had no further authority, see OML 2017-88, and 
political statements on matters not like to come before the body, see OML 2014-135. 
Based on the foregoing, we now conclude that a topic falls outside the scope of a body's 
jurisdiction where: 
(i) It does not involve the public body's exercise of governmental business, policy, or 
administration; 
(ii) it relates to personal matters, such as the safety and well-being of public body 
members and/or their families; and 
(iii) collective action by the body, such as taking a vote, is not anticipated on the topic. 
Our review of the e-mail showed that the Committee members' conversation with the 
police concerned alleged threats.2 We conclude that where, as here, a communication concerns 
only what the Committee members believe to be threats to their personal safety, that 
communication is not within the Committee's jurisdiction. While we do not take a position on 
whether the complainant in fact threatened the Committee members, it is clear from the record 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 We note that, if the Committee wished to discuss this matter outside of public view, the conversation may have 
also been appropriate for discussion in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(4) (discussion of the 
deployment of security personnel, such as police) and/or § 21 (a)(5) (discussion of the referral of criminal 
misconduct to law enforcement). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
before us that the Committee members believed the complainant to have communicated a threat 
of some nature. We find that the communication at issue here fell outside the Committee's 
jurisdiction and that, therefore, the chair's July 23, 2017 e-mail therefore did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
Despite the foregoing, we note our general concern in the practice of using e-mail to 
communicate between and among a quorum. While we find that the Committee did not 
improperly deliberate in the present case, public body members should avoid email 
communications between and among a quorum except for the narrow reasons permitted by the 
Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the chair's July 23, 2017 e-mail did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangana 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Ballard, Esq. 
Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 