===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Mr. Paul L. Kenny, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
278 Old Sudbury Road 
Sudbury, MA 01776 
December 19, 2014 
OML 2014-148 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Kenny: 
This office received seven related complaints alleging that the Sudbury Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, 
the complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting via email on 
numerous occasions. Five of the complaints were filed by Mr. Scott Nassa and are dated 
October 29, 2014. These five complaints were originally filed with the Board on September 1, 
2014. Another complainant, Mr. Stephen Lanzendorf, filed one complaint on October 27, 2014. 
This complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 22, 2014. Finally, the third 
complainant, Mr. Daniel DePomei, filed one complaint on October 14, 2014. This complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on September 2, 2014. You responded to all seven 
complaints on behalf of the Board in a letter dated September 18, 2014. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that five emails sent by Selectman Leonard Simon to his fellow 
Board members constituted individual violations of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the seven complaints; the Board's response; and the requests for 
further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body that meets at 
regular intervals to discuss the governance of the Town of Sudbury (the "Town"). The 
complaints concern several instances of e-mails being circulated amongst the members of the 
Board. We consider each incident in turn, in chronological order. 
On August 20, 2013, Selectman Simon e-mailed a memorandum to all of the other Board 
members concerning the Bruce Freeman Rail Trail (the "BFRT"), a trail that extends through 
several communities and is open to cycling, jogging, and other activities. The memorandum 
o 
===PAGE 2===
outlined the history and background of the project, including discussion of a 2012 Town Meeting 
where residents spoke in favor of the project. The memorandum then states, in part, "I have 
reviewed and studied each of the four options, and the pros and cons of each." Selectman Simon 
then states the conclusions he reached, and offers two motions for the Board's consideration at a 
future meeting. 
On October 2, 2013, a Town administrative assistant sent an e-mail to all Board members 
containing a draft copy of the Town's Alcohol Rules & Regulations. A copy was also sent to the 
Chief of Police. On October 10, 2013, Selectman Simon e-mailed the Board, along with the 
Chief, commenting on the rules and suggesting possible changes. 
On January 16, 2014, Selectman Simon sent an e-mail to the Community Preservation 
Committee. All Board members were copied on the e-mail. The e-mail outlines Selectman 
Simon's positions regarding appropriate funding levels for the BFRT. 
On August 4, 2014, Selectman Simon circulated a memorandum by e-mail to the other 
members of the Board. Again, this memorandum concerned the BFRT. The body of the e-mail 
reads, "Attached please find a memo I have asked to be included in the packets for our August 
19, 2014 meeting." The memorandum begins with, "At the conclusion of the BOS meeting of 
July 22, 2014,1 was concerned about the way the discussion on the [BFRT] unfolded and 
concluded. Something just did not seem right to me. After thinking about it, the reasons became 
clear." The memorandum expresses Selectman Simon's opinion regarding the appropriate scope 
of the BFRT, whether an advisory committee is needed to supervise the project, as well as his 
preference as to which firm should receive the contract for designing the BFRT. 
On August 19, 2014, a constituent sent an e-mail to all members of the Board regarding a 
chain restaurant that wanted to move into the Town. The e-mail stated that Sudbury should not 
have another "generic" chain restaurant. Selectman Simon responded to all other Board 
members, stating, in part, "I think we need to be careful not to alienate or prejudge an individual 
who wants to make a go of [a] restaurant here in town." No member of the Board responded to 
any of Selectman Simon's e-mails. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Complaints are all Timely 
As an initial matter, we address the Board's argument that certain allegations in the 
complaints are untimely. The Open Meeting Law states that complaints must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged 
violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of when the alleged violation could reasonably have been 
discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Mr. Nassa, who brought the complaints relating to the August 
20, 2013; October 12, 2013; and January 16, 2014 e-mails, discovered the e-mails on August 20, 
2014, when they were provided to him by an anonymous source. The Board argues that because 
the e-mails were "public records" at the time they were created, they were reasonably 
discoverable at the time, and those allegations are therefore now untimely. The only recipients 
of the e-mails in question were the members of the Board and a handful of other individuals. 
The emails were not widely circulated, nor were they discussed during an open session meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We therefore conclude that the e-mails were not reasonably discoverable at the time they were 
sent. Because Mr. Nassa filed his complaints within 30 days of discovering the e-mails, we find 
the complaints to be timely. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
II. The Emails Constituted Impermissible Deliberation Outside of a Meeting 
The Open Meeting Law is intended to "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [material] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed." Id (emphasis added) Expression of an opinion on matters within a 
body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds. See OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15. 
Here, we find that Selectman's Simon's practice of sending memoranda and other 
messages via e-mail to a quorum of the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. These 
communications were sent to all other members of the Board, and they expressed Selectman 
Simon's opinions on issues within the Board's jurisdiction. The October 12, 2013 e-mail 
concerning the alcohol regulations addressed whether to adopt changes to Town policy. The 
January 16, 2014 e-mail contained Selectman Simon's opinion regarding appropriate levels of 
funding for the BFRT. Both met the statutory definition of deliberation, thus the communication 
therein should have taken place during an open meeting. 
The Board argues that Selectman Simon's August 20, 2013 memorandum was not 
deliberation, however, rather it was the mere distribution of two motions to be considered at a 
future meeting. The Open Meeting Law specifies, however, that such distribution is to be done 
without the expression of an opinion by a public body member. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Here, 
Selectman Simon offered suggestions and opinions. We therefore conclude that the circulation 
of the August 20, 2013 memorandum also constituted improper deliberation. Likewise, the 
August 4, 2014 memorandum contained multiple opinions on topics within the Board's 
jurisdiction. Although intended for inclusion in the packets provided to the Selectmen, we find 
that the August 4, 2014 memorandum was not intended for discussion at a meeting, rather it was 
meant to express Selectman Simon's opinion to the Board members in advance of the meeting. 
As for the August 19, 2014 e-mail concerning the restaurant chain, the Board denies that this was 
deliberation because the Board does not possess any authority to take action on the constituent's 
e-mail (the Board described it as merely "a social issue."). Because issues relating to a new 
restaurant opening in town could conceivably come before the Board, we find that this 
discussion was within the Board's jurisdiction and should have taken place during an open 
meeting. Although we find that these e-mails violated the Open Meeting Law, because it 
appears that no member of the Board responded to Selectman Simon, we find that it was an 
individual violation, rather than a violation by the Board as a whole. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Selectman Simon individually violated the 
Open Meeting Law. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. We also order that the Board release to the public, within 30 days 
following its receipt of this determination, all e-mails and memoranda referenced in this letter. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Mr. Scott Nassa 
Mr. Stephen Lanzendorf 
Mr. Daniel DePomei 
Sudbury Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 