===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACI-MSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATT 0 RNEY GENERAL 
April 26, 2011 
OML 2011 - 13 
Stephanie O'Keeffe 
Chair 
Amherst Select Board 
4 Boltwood Ave 
Amherst, MA 01002 
Dear Ms. O'Keeffe, 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by Ms. Hwei-Ling Greeney, dated October 11, 
2010, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Amherst 
Select Board (the "Board"). The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 24, 
2010. The complaint alleges that the Board discussed and rendered a decision on an issue which 
was not placed on the meeting notice. Based upon our review, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In making our determination, we reviewed the September 24, 2010 and October 11, 2010 
complaints; the Board's October 7, 2010 response; and the minutes of the September 13, 2010 
Board meeting. We also reviewed the meeting notice from the September 13, 2010 meeting and 
a video recording of the relevant portions of the meeting. 
FACTS  
According to the complaint, on September 9, 2010, the complainant sent an email to the 
Board detailing her concerns with the town's Community Development Block Grant ("CDBG") 
process and making suggestions for improvement. In addition, she requested that the CDBG 
process issue be placed on a Board meeting agenda for discussion prior to a September 28, 2010 
hearing scheduled to be held by the Community Development Committee, which administers the 
block grants. The Board's chair declined to place the complainant's proposals on the Board's 
agenda for its meeting on September 13, 2010. Nevertheless, the complainant attended the 
meeting and used the public comment period to address the Board regarding her concerns with 
the CDBG process. Specifically, the complainant requested that the Board, rather than 
Community Development Committee, conduct the hearing scheduled for September 28, 2010. 
In response, the Board's chair stated that the Board was not prepared to discuss the CDBG 
process or to make any decisions at the September 13, 2010 meeting. The complainant asserts 
that she finished her remarks "with the understanding that the [Board] would NOT be discussing 
===PAGE 2===
CDBG-related issues that night because: 1. It was not on the agenda; 2. The chair stated it [sic] 
that the [Board] was not ready to discuss it." (emphasis in original). The complainant then left 
the meeting. 
Later in the meeting, the Board heard liaison reports from Board members who 
commuthcate with other boards and committees in Amherst. "Liaison and Representative 
Reports" was listed as a topic in the meeting notice posted for the September 13, 2010 meeting. 
Attached to the meeting notice was a document entitled "Potential Committee Liaison Reports." 
Listed among the committees that could be the subject of a liaison report was "Community 
Development." The notice listed the Community Development liaison as "Alisa," apparently 
referring to Board member Alisa Brewer. Toward the end of the meeting, Ms. Brewer reported 
on the Community Development Committee. She spoke for several minutes, and included in her 
remarks comments that she believed the CDBG process was working well. She advocated that 
the Community Development Committee—rather than the Board—conduct the September 28, 
2010 hearing, as scheduled. 
Toward the end of the liaison reports, the Board's chair stated that, "as far as Ms. 
Brewer's recommendation on the CDBG hearing, everything that you said makes sense to me, 
and considering the memo that Ms. Greeney had given to us, I agree that our process perhaps can 
be improved; it can't probably be improved in two weeks. Does anybody feel differently about 
how we should proceed with the hearing on the 28th?" Following this comment, one Board 
member responded that, "I just don't know enough to say." Hearing no further comment, the 
Board's chair said, "alright, this is where we are and we're stuck with it." 
The complainant took this exchange to mean that "with brief discussion and no vote was 
taken, the [Board] decided that the 2011 CDBG application process would remain the same." 
According to complainant, the Board "no[t] only discussed [the CDBG process] but rendered 
their decisions." 
In the Board's response, the chair stated that she believed the complainant had 
"misinterpreted that decision—which was a matter of whether or not to schedule an issue for 
further consideration, rather than consideration of the issue itself" 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, and that the 
"[n]otice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, 
time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20. A public body may discuss items which were not 
on the meeting notice if they were not reasonably anticipated 48 hours before the meeting. 
However, public bodies are encouraged not to discuss or vote on items which arise within the 48 
hour period or come up at a meeting if they can be postponed to a later meeting and added to a 
properly posted meeting notice. 
Here, the complainant emailed the chair of the Board prior to the meeting to request that 
her proposal regarding the CDBG process be added to the Board's agenda. The chair declined. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Accordingly, the chair reasonably anticipated that the topic would not be discussed because she 
had refused to add it to the agenda. The chair could not have reasonably anticipated when she 
posted the notice that the complainant would raise the topic during the public comment portion at 
the beginning of the meeting. Similarly, the chair could not have reasonably anticipated that Ms. 
Brewer, acting as the Community Development Committee liaison and submitting her report in 
accordance with a duly posted notice item— would use that reporting time to respond to the 
complainant's earlier comments. It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a member of 
the Board to express an opinion during a liaison report when that report is listed in the meeting 
notice. Similarly, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for the chair to comment in 
response to that opinion and for there to be discussion about a matter raised during the public 
comment period directly related to an agenda item. 
Whether the chair's statement and the discussion was a decision on the merits of the 
complainant's proposal or a request as to whether or not to schedule the issue for further 
consideration does not affect this analysis. Board members do not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when they address a topic during a meeting that was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Moreover, the statements made by Ms. Brewer and the Chair—while 
unanticipated by the Chair—were nonetheless related to a topic listed on the meeting notice: the 
"Potential Committee Liaison Reports," including one pertaining to "Community Development." 
We understand the complainant's frustration in attending the meeting and later 
discovering that Board members made comments about an issue that the complainant feels 
passionately about, particularly where she left the meeting with an understanding that there 
would be no further discussion of the topic that night. However, though the Board is certainly 
encouraged to postpone decisions on items that are raised during the meeting but not reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair, the circumstances as stated here do not amount to a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact me if 
you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely2  
Jonathan Sclarsic 
,Assistant Attorney General 
/ Division of Open Government 
cc: Hwei-Ling Greeney 
3 