===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 5, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 4 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
James F. Wellock, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Salem 
93 Washington Street 
Salem, MA 01970 
jwellock@salem.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Wellock: 
 
This office received two complaints from Christopher Patzke on November 5 and 
December 1, 2025,
1 alleging that the Salem City Seal Task Force (the “Task Force”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2  The complaints were originally filed with the Task 
Force on or about October 13 and November 5. You responded on behalf of the Task Force by 
letters dated November 5 and December 2.3 The first complaint alleges that the Task Force 
ended its September 30 public listening session early thus preventing members of the public who 
arrived late from giving public comment, in violation of those individuals’ First Amendment 
rights.
4 The second complaint alleges that the Task Force improperly deliberated via email.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly deliberating via email. We find that the Task Force did not otherwise violate the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaints filed with the Task Force, the Task Force’s responses to the complaints, and the 
requests for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed communications 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise noted.  
2 Our office received a third complaint from Mr. Patzke alleging that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting 
Law. That complaint will be addressed by separate letter.  
3 We note that the Task Force requested an extension of time to respond to the November 5 complaint ; however, the 
request was untimely and our office was unable to grant the request. See 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
4 As discussed below, the Division of Open Government’s review is limited to alleged violations of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
from the complainant and from counsel for the Task Force.5 Finally, we also reviewed a video 
recording of the September 30 public listening session.6 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law when it deliberated via email. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that, unless properly convened in executive session, is open to the 
public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.7 The Task Force acknowledges, and we find, that 
the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law when, on October 17, Task Force members sent 
emails to the full body expressing their opinions on what should be included in the substance of 
the Task Force’s final recommendation and report. Upon realizing that the emails may have 
violated the Open Meeting Law, Regina Zaragoza-Frey, Chair of the Task Force, emailed Task 
Force members explaining that such communications must take place during a properly noticed 
meeting. Chair Zaragoza-Frey also sought legal counsel’s assistance in further advising the Task 
Force regarding proper and improper deliberation. Finally, Chair Zaragoza-Frey disclosed the 
existence of the improper deliberation during the Task Force’s October 30 meeting.  
 
We commend the Task Force for acknowledging the violation and taking remedial action; 
however, we note that in cases where a public body has improperly deliberated via email, we 
typically order the public body to release to the public the violative emails since such 
communications should have occurred during a properly posted meeting that was open to the 
public. As such, we order the Task Force to release to the public the October 17 emails 
containing the improper deliberation.
8 We typically advise that a public body may publicly 
release violative emails by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the 
meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along 
with the minutes on the municipal website. We understand that the Task Force has disbanded and 
so we note that the Task Force may publicly release the emails by posting them to the municipal 
website. 
 
 
 
 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
6 Video recordings of the Task Force’s meetings may be found at https://www.salemma.gov/1205/City-Seal-Task-
Force-Recorded-Meetings.  
7 The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
8 In further communications with our office, the complainant asserts that the Task Force cannot be trusted and asks 
that “ALL correspondence should be made public since it is public record anyway . . . .” We note that absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. See  OML 2023-121; OML 2017-
93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every 
presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly 
taken for the general welfare.”). Furthermore, we do not address whether the Task Force must release any other 
communications that are not the subject of the Open Meeting Law complaint before us ; requests for such records 
would fall under the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The Task Force did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it ended its September 
30 listening session early. 
 
The Task Force posted notice for a listening session to be held on September 30. The 
notice stated that the listening session would run from 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., with the first 5 
minutes dedicated to a welcome and session overview and the remaining 55 minutes dedicated to 
public comment. The meeting was held as scheduled. Three individuals, including the 
complainant, gave public comment in person and three individuals provided comment over 
Zoom. After confirming that there were no other individuals who wished to provide public 
comment, the session was closed. Throughout the session, other than recognizing individuals to 
speak and providing information regarding how the public could provide comment, members of 
the Task Force did not respond to comments or otherwise discuss any matters. 
 
Although the Task Force does not raise this issue, we note that it appears that the 
listening session likely was not a meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law where the sole 
purpose of the listening session was for the Task Force to receive comment from the public and 
where members of the Task Force did not respond to the comments or otherwise communicate 
regarding matters within the Task Force’s jurisdiction. See OML 2023-152 (“nothing in the 
Open Meeting Law prohibits public body members from receiving information or attending a 
presentation that may inform the members’ opinions on matters, provided that a quorum of the 
public body does not deliberate outside of a properly noticed meeting.”); OML 2021-31 (finding 
no violation where the full school committee attended a listening session but no members of the 
committee deliberated).  
 
However, even if the September 30 listening session was a meeting subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, we find that the Task Force did not violate the Open Meeting Law by adjourning 
the session early. Nothing in the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to hold a meeting 
open for a certain period of time or past the conclusion of the meeting’s business. See OML 
2018-27 (council did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it adjourned hearing early). 
Additionally, once a meeting begins, the public body controls its own agenda; the Open Meeting 
Law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic 
listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2022-109. Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require that public bodies provide for public participation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g) (“[n]o person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at 
the request of the chair, be silent.”). Finally, allegations that an individual’s rights under the U.S. 
or Massachusetts constitutions have been violated fall outside of the Division’s statutory review. 
See OML Declination 4-25-2024 (Westwood Charter Review Committee) (explaining that “we 
do not review allegations concerning restrictions on public comment or compliance with the 
United States or Massachusetts constitutions”); OML Declination 11-3-2023 (Newbury Select 
Board); OML 2013-135, n.2 (declining to review whether constitutional rights were violated). 
For these reasons, we find that the Task Force did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it 
adjourned the September 30 listening session early.    
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated outside of a noticed meeting via email. We find that the Task Force did not 
otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Task Force, within 30 days of 
the date of this letter, to release to the public the October 17 emails containing the improper 
deliberation.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Task Force.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Regina Zaragoza-Frey, Chair, Salem City Task Force (via email: rzaragoza@salem.com) 
Ilene Simons, City Clerk (via email: isimons@salem.com) 
Christopher Patzke (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
