===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 14, 2023  
  
OML 2023 – 225 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Christopher Nocella 
Office of the Board of Health 
272 Main Street  
Townsend, MA01469 
 
chris.nocella.cn61@gmail.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Nocella:  
 
This office received a complaint from Veronica Kell on November 6, 2023, alleging that 
the Townsend Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on August 141 and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated September 1.  The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Board’s August 9 meeting listed the incorrect room number for the meeting and that music on 
the phone line made it difficult for those attending remotely to hear the proceedings.  The 
complaint also alleges that the Board chair removed an item from the topics to be discussed and 
mounted an unprovoked verbal attack on the complainant.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
listed the wrong room number for the meeting.  We find no violation in the alleged difficulties 
with the phone line.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notice of the August 9 meeting and viewed the video recording of the August 9 
meeting.
2  
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.  
2The video can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oC51H7FMxPE  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  On July 26, the Board posted notice of its August 9 
meeting.  The meeting was noticed to commence at 9:00 a.m. at Meeting Room 2, Memorial 
Hall, 272 Main Street.  According to the notice, the meeting was to be “held in-person at the 
location provided on this notice.  Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person 
meeting.”  Remote access was provided “as a courtesy.”  However, the notice cautioned that “the 
meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law.  Members of the public with particular interest in 
any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person versus virtual attendance 
accordingly.”  Among the topics of discussion was a “Community Preservation Act 
Presentation.” 
 
At the beginning of the meeting, which occurred in the Selectmen’s chambers, not in 
Room 2, Board chair James Le’Cuyer noted the change of location.  In its response, the Board 
explains that the location change occurred at the “last minute.”  Ms. Kell and Cindy Boundy 
attended the meeting to speak to the Board about the Community Preservation Act.  When that 
item was reached, Mr. Le’Cuyer invited Ms. Kell and Ms. Boundy to the table where the three-
member Board was sitting. 
 
As Ms. Kell and Ms. Boundy settled into their seats, Mr. Le’Cuyer addressed the 
complainant: 
 
Have a seat and be comfortable.  But before we get started on this, I would like to 
make a comment to Veronica that there was recently a new appointment on 
Conservation and I would like to say to all the past conservationists etc. including 
my wife and myself that there’s problems  in Conservation.  I don’t appreciate or 
respect what’s gone on with the Selectmen  and I don’t respect you.  OK?  And at 
this time, I would like to make a motion to get rid of this subject, Community 
Preservation Act, and have it dismissed. 
 
The complainant attempted to respond but was interrupted by Mr. Le’Cuyer: “No, you’re 
out of control.  You’re out of order.  Can I have a motion, somebody, please?”  Other Board 
members declined to make a motion to remove the item from discussion.  Ms. Boundy then 
stated that “this is really inappropriate.”  She too was forcefully interrupted by Mr. Le’Cuyer, 
who told her: “Excuse me, I have the floor.  A lot of stuff that goes on in this room is 
inappropriate.”  Soon thereafter, the chair unilaterally declared the meeting adjourned, got up and 
walked out of view of the camera.  After Ms. Boundy turned to the camera to again state that the 
chair’s behavior was inappropriate, Mr. Le’Cuyer could be heard off camera saying 
“Inappropriate is the selectman’s meeting, that’s what’s inappropriate and her, she’s 
inappropriate.  The meeting has been adjourned.”   
 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must contain “the date, time and place of the meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.   
 
Notice which does not clearly identify the location of the meeting does not conform to 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-120 (“Because the notice failed to include the physical 
location of the meeting, we find the notice was insufficiently specific, in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.”); OML 2022-106 (“Suffolk Field Office” insufficiently specific); OML 2016-38 
(“Fairhaven Fire Station” insufficiently specific, even though there is only one fire station in 
Fairhaven.)3  Likewise, convening a meeting in a location other than the location stated on the 
meeting notice, without providing adequate notice to the public, violates the Open Meeting Law.  
See OML 2023-146.  A public body is permitted to change its meeting location, even less than 
48 hours prior to a meeting, as long as it makes reasonable efforts to notify the public of the new 
location.  See OML 2020-102; OML 2020-95; OML 2017-152.  Indeed, there may be 
circumstances when a public body is required to change its meeting location, such as when a 
public body learns that a meeting is expected to attract a particularly large crowd, necessitating a 
larger meeting space.  See OML 2016-111; OML 2015-92.     
 
The notice for the Board’s August 9 meeting listed the place of the meeting as Meeting 
Room 2 in Memorial Hall; however, the Board convened the meeting in the Selectmen’s 
chambers.  The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it convened its meeting in a location 
other than that stated on the meeting notice, without notice to the public.  The Board has 
committed to posting any location change in the future.  Ms. Kell also complains that Town Hall, 
where the meeting was held, does not open until 9:00 a.m., the start time of the meeting.  We do 
not find a separate violation of the Open Meeting Law on these grounds, where there is no 
indication the building was not open in time on August 9 for members of the public to attend the 
start of the meeting.  It is the incorrect room number that had the potential to hamper access to 
the meeting.  We note with approval that going forward the Board has committed itself to 
starting all meetings at least ten minutes after the building opens.   
 
We do not find that music on the phone line constituted a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law, even if it did make it difficult to listen to the proceedings.  The notice provided a phone 
line to call “as a courtesy” to the public but urged in-person attendance for those with a 
“particular interest” in a topic to be discussed.  A public body may hold fully in-person meetings, 
as long as access to the meeting includes the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2022-158.   
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the requirement that a quorum of a public body 
be physically present at the meeting place was suspended, allowing all members to participate 
remotely, so long as the public body provides “adequate, alternative means” of public access, 
such as through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing.  See An Act 
Relative to Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, 
Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021; Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2023 (extending this provision until 
March 31, 2025).  While a public body may provide remote access to its meetings, it is not 
required to do so, provided the meetings are held in-person at a location that is open and 
physically accessible to the public.  See OML 2023-172; OML 2022-158.  Because the Board 
was not required to provide remote access, we do not find a violation for the alleged musical 
interference on the phone line.   
 
Finally, we decline to review allegations arising out of Mr. Le’Cuyer’s conduct at the 
August 9 meeting, including his alleged personal attack against the complainant.  An allegation 
of unprofessional conduct or incivility toward a member of the public does not implicate the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 6-14-16 (Sterling Board of Selectmen); OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  Nevertheless, our 
office encourages civility during meetings of public bodies.  Mr. Le’Cuyer’s fellow board 
members balked when he sought a motion to “dismiss” the Community Preservation Act from 
the topics to be discussed at the meeting.  However, no such motion was required and the item 
could be removed from discussion without a formal motion.  See OML 2022-62 (Open Meeting 
Law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic 
listed on a meeting notice); OML 2015-174. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding its August 2 meeting in a location other than that stated on the meeting notice, without 
notice to the public of the change.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the 
future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  Because the 
complaint does not allege that any member of the public was misled or confused by the meeting 
notice, or that the meeting was inaccessible to the public, we order no further remedial action.  
 
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Veronica Kell (via e-mail: )  
 Townsend Health Administrator ( via e-mail: CHitzenbuhler@townsendma.gov) 
 Townsend Town Administrator (via e -mail: ESlagle@townsendma.gov) 
  
   
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
