===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 1, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 198 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Joseph R. Duquette, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
jduquette@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Duquette: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 9, 2022, alleging that the 
Somerset Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on April 5, 2022, and 
you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated May 9, 2022, following an extension 
of time granted by our office.1  The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to announce 
that it was recording its April 4 meeting and that the Commission discussed a topic during its 
April 4 meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Commission response to the complaint, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice for and a recording of the 
Commission’s April 4 meeting.2  We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to announce that the April 4 meeting was being recorded.  We find that the 
Commission did not violate the law in the other way alleged. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission’s chair failed to announce that the April 4 
meeting was being recorded.  The Open Meeting Law provides that “[a]fter notifying the chair of 
the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a 
meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to the 
reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment so 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 A recording of the Commission’s April 4 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ccjJbUwIsyE. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The law requires the 
chair to inform attendees of any recording.  Id.  The requirement that the chair inform attendees 
of any recording includes any recording made by the public body itself, including those made for 
public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting 
minutes. See OML 2020-70; OML 2019-154; OML 2017-162; OML 2015-147; OML 2013-136; 
OML 2012-24.3  The Commission does not dispute that the chair failed to announce that the 
April 4 meeting was being recorded, apparently due to a lack of awareness that the chair must 
make such an announcement when the public body records its own meeting.  Therefore, we find 
that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law.  We take this opportunity to inform the 
Commission that when a public body regularly records or broadcasts its own meetings, it may 
satisfy the requirement of notification by prominently displaying a sign at the meeting location 
that informs attendees about the recording, thus relieving the chair from making a verbal 
announcement at the start of the meeting.  See OML 2020-138; OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Commission discussed a topic during its April 4 
meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice.  During the meeting, the Commission’s Chair 
provided a lengthy and detailed recap of a meeting he, along with three other Commission 
members and the Town Administrator, had attended on April 1 with representatives of Prysmian 
Group, the energy and telecommunications company that is developing a submarine power cable 
plant at the site of the former Brayton Point power station in Somerset.  The Chair reported that 
the meeting focused on the limited role of the Commission in what is otherwise an 
extraordinarily expansive and multi-faceted approval process; the timing between filing and 
scheduling a hearing before the Commission; plans for public engagement and communications; 
and some of the project plans with regard to siting, dredging, and other specifics of the project.  
The Chair emphasized that many of the details that were discussed during the April 1 meeting 
with Prysmian Group were not matters that fall within the Commission’s limited jurisdiction 
with regard to the project and that the discussions during the April 1 meeting were far more 
expansive and in-depth than he had anticipated.  The Chair’s detailed report during the 
Commission’s April 4 meeting generated much comment and questions by Commission 
members as well as the few members of the public in attendance about the proposed details of 
the project, many of which the Chair reiterated were provided for informational purposes only 
and not matters within the Chair’s jurisdiction.  There is no dispute that the notice for the 
Commission’s April 4 meeting did not include any mention of the April 1 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meetin
g, not including weekends and holidays, and include a “listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A public body 
may discuss a topic that was unanticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting even without 
having included it on the meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends 
that public bodies, as a best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant 
interest to the public in order to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting 
if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting.  See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.  A public 
body also may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated 
topic and then discuss that topic during the meeting.  See OML 2019-131.   
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The Commission explained that the April 1 meeting with Prysmian Group was held just 
one business day prior to the Commission’s April 4 meeting and therefore the Chair’s 
announcement and report on the meeting was not anticipated 48 hours in advance of the April 4 
meeting.  Although the fact of the April 1 meeting was known more than 48 hours in advance of 
the April 4 meeting, we are persuaded from the Commission’s response as well as the video of 
the Commission’s meeting that the nature and scope of the meeting was not.  The complainant 
does not appear to dispute the Commission’s position that the recap of the April 1 meeting was 
an unanticipated topic, but asserts that the Commission was required to amend the April 4 
meeting notice to add the topic.  The best practice certainly would have been for the Commission 
to amend the April 4 meeting notice, or—preferably—wait until a future meeting when full 
notice could be provided to report on the informational meeting with Prysmian Group, especially 
where the project surely was known to be of great public interest.  Nonetheless, it was 
permissible for the Commission to engage in discussion of an unanticipated topic during its April 
4 meeting notwithstanding that the topic was not included on the meeting notice, and the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission  violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to announce that its April 4 meeting was being recorded.  We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Commission that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e- mail: ) 
 Somerset Conservation Commission (via e- mail to conservation agent Timothy Turner: 
tturner@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
