===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 6, 2013 
OML 2013 — 55 
Patricia E. Stewart 
Chairman 
Plainville Board of Assessors 
142 South Street 
P.O. Box 1717 
Plainville, MA 02762 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Stewart: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated May 9, 2012, alleging that 
the Plainville Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 3, 2012, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated April 12, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. 
Higgins alleges that the notice posted by the Board in advance of its March 26, 2012 meeting 
"does not contain enough information about the agenda items to allow a member of the general 
public to decide if they wish to attend the posted open meeting of the [B]oard of [A]ssessors." 
We reviewed the April 3, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's April 12, 
2012 response; the May 9, 2012 complaint filed with this office; and the notice and minutes for 
the Board's March 26, 2012 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board's posted notice for its March 26, 2012 meeting did 
not provide adequate notice as required by the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The notice 
posted in advance of the Board's March 26, 2012 meeting included a list of topics to be 
discussed. The list included the following topics: "7:30 pm meeting with taxpayer;" "Expenses;" 
"Vacation requests;" "Request for honorary appointment to Assistant Assessor;" "FY 12 RE & 
PP abatement applications;" and "FY 2012 Values sent to Warren Group." 
0 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
Mr. Higgins alleges generally that the Board failed to provide sufficient detail in the 
notice posted in advance of its March 26, 2012 meeting. Mr. Higgins also alleges that specific 
topics listed in the notice lacked sufficient detail. We address each allegation in turn. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will be. See OML 2011-7. 1  
The March 26, 2012 meeting notice generally failed to list topics with sufficient 
specificity. The Board used unclear abbreviations and failed to provide an adequate level of 
detail. For example, the notice listed a topic as "FY 12 RE & PP abatement applications." We 
presume that "RE" and "PP" were intended to mean "real estate" and "personal property," 
respectively. These abbreviations are not commonly used and understood by the public, 
however, thus the words should have been fully written out. Similarly, the notice topic listed as 
"FY 2012 Values sent to Warren Group" did not clearly indicate the purpose of that anticipated 
discussion. Although the notice topics as listed might have been meaningful to Board members 
and regular Board meeting attendees, they were potentially unclear to members of the public 
unfamiliar with the regular matters before the Board. Because a reasonable member of the 
public would be unable to understand the nature of the Board's planned discussion, we find that 
the Board's meeting notice did not provide adequate notice, as required by the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
In his complaint, Mr. Higgins also alleges that the meeting notice inadequately listed 
"Expenses" as a topic without stating which expenses the Board anticipated discussing. The 
Board responds that it will list "Bills Payable" on future agendas. Whenever possible, the Chair 
should also make an effort to include descriptive categories, such as identifying groups of related 
invoices or bills payable. 
Mr. Higgins also alleges that the following topics listed in the Board's notice should have 
included the names of relevant parties: "7:30 pm meeting with taxpayer;" "Vacation requests;" 
and "Request for honorary appointment to Assistant Assessor." The Board responds that the 
taxpayer meeting involved a request for an abatement, which is required by statute to be 
confidential. The Board also states that "identifying individual employees requesting a vacation 
at any particular time may pose a security risk for that employee and their home." Finally, the 
Board responds that it "will list the names of persons considered for . . . similar appointments . . . 
on future agendas." 
We encourage public bodies to include the names of relevant parties in meeting notices 
whenever possible. However, when considering abatement requests, the Board does not need to 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
list applicants' names or addresses in its meeting notice. 2  Furthermore, we find that the topic 
"employee vacation requests" is sufficiently descriptive to inform members of the public about 
the nature of the topic, and that the Board does not need to list in its notice each specific vacation 
request. Finally, with respect to the Board's failure to list the name of its honorary appointee to 
the position of Assistant Assessor, the Board has pledged to include the names of potential 
appointees in future meeting notices. We credit the Board's reply and remind the Board to 
provide applicable names and descriptions in meeting notices whenever possible. 
As a final matter, we note the Board's statement in its reply to the complaint that, in the 
future, it will "provide more information on the agenda that it will be going into executive 
session." The March 26, 2012 meeting notice and the corresponding open session minutes do 
not indicate that the Board entered executive session during this meeting, however. We remind 
the Board that, if it does wish to enter into executive session during a meeting, it must provide 
proper notice to the public in advance of executive sessions and follow all executive session 
procedural requirements, as provided by the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board's notice for its March 26, 2012 
meeting did not provide adequate notice as required by the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
2  The Attorney General has provided a Frequently Asked Question available at 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  addressing this point: 
When considering applications for tax abatement or exemption, must a Board of Assessors list the names and 
addresses of applicants in its meeting notice? 
No, the Board does not need to list applicants' names or addresses in the Board's meeting notice, and the 
Department of Revenue's Division of Local Services has stated that Boards may be legally prohibited from 
doing so. Applications for abatement or exemption are confidential under G.L. c. 59, § 60. Although certain 
information about the application, such as the name or title in which the tax stands assessed, must be made 
public once an abatement or exemption has been granted, the Board is not required to release that information 
before that time. It is therefore sufficient for the meeting notice to state that the Board is considering 
applications for abatement or exemption. Boards may also wish to include the number of applications under 
consideration in their meeting notices. This provides the public with additional detail about the topic to be 
discussed without compromising applicant confidentiality. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
z 
knathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 