===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 159 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Shauna Geary 
Chair, Somerset School Committee 
shauna.geary@somersetschools.org 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Geary: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 12, 2022, alleging that the 
Somerset School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 14, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 20, 2022.1  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes of a meeting held on January 25. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  Notice was posted for a meeting of the Somerset Berkley 
Regional School Committee -Regional Planning Board to take place on January 25.  Four out of 
the Committee’s five members—a quorum—attended the meeting.  Two members of the 
Committee—Members Victor Machado and Michael McDonald—also serve on the Somerset 
Berkley Regional School Committee as well as the Regional Planning Board.  In addition to the 
members of the Committee, the January 25 meeting was attended by members of the Somerset 
Berkley Regional School Committee, the Regional Planning Board, and the Berkley Board of 
Selectmen, and others.   
The meeting of the Regional Planning Board was called to order.  Immediately, 
Committee member Machado stated that he was unprepared for the meeting because documents 
had not been distributed in advance of the meeting.  Committee member McDonald called to 
order a meeting of the Committee, and stated that he was unprepared due to a failure to provide 
documents in advance of the meeting, was unprepared to ask questions, and that the meeting 
should be postponed for a few weeks.  Committee member Machado agreed.  Committee 
member Machado then moved to “table” the Committee meeting.  The motion passed with three 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee members in favor and one abstaining.  Committee member Machado, who is also a 
member of the Somerset Berkley Regional School Committee, then moved to table the meeting 
of that body as well; the motion did not receive a second.  Committee member Machado moved 
to adjourn the Committee meeting; the motion passed 4-0.  The Committee members each either 
left the meeting of the Regional Planning Board at that point or did not participate further.  Less 
than five minutes passed between when the Committee called its meeting to order and the final 
motion to adjourn, with no discussion taking place other than various individuals stating that 
they were unprepared for the meeting due to not having received documents in advance. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.”  However, the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11(2).   
The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeti
 ng” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law specifies that “meeting” shall not include “attendance by a quorum of a 
public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements 
of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members communicate only by open 
participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not 
deliberate.”  “Deliberation” is further defined as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions.  Id.  
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes of its January 
25 meeting when the minutes were not approved until April 14, which was more than 30 days 
and three meetings after January 25.  We disagree.  Although the Committee called to order and 
then promptly adjourned a meeting on January 25, we find the Committee did not actually hold a 
“meeting” as defined by the Open Meeting Law.  The Committee members did not deliberate, 
that is, they did not engage in any discussion on public business within the Committee’s 
jurisdiction.  At most, Committee members attended a meeting of another public body without 
engaging in deliberation, which the Open Meeting Law specifically excludes from the Law’s 
definition of “meeting.”  Therefore, the Committee was not obligated to create minutes for the 
January 25 meeting, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e- mail: ) 
Somerset School Committee (via e-mail to recording secretary Robin Vaccaro: 
VaccaroR@sbregional.org) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
