===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
November 5, 2012 
OML 2012 — 109 
James Huebner 
Chair 
Board of Selectmen 
Town of Washington 
8 Summit Hill Road 
Washington, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Huebner: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Rose Borgnis on December 8, 2011, alleging 
that the Washington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that notice for the Board's September 12, 
2011 meeting listed "Executive Session" with no further information, and that during the 
September 12, 2011 meeting, the Board entered into executive session without providing a 
reason for the executive session. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board's notice 
included a topic listed only as "Open Action items from Prior Meetings," without providing 
necessary detail. The complaint was filed with the Board on or about October 3, 2011, and the 
Board responded to the complaint by letter on October 31, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide sufficiently specific topics in the meeting notice for its September 12, 2011 meeting. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the October 3, 2011 complaint; the Board's October 
31, 2011 response; and the December 8, 2011 complaint. Additionally, we reviewed the notice 
and open and executive session minutes of the Board's September 12, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS  
The notice for the Board's September 12, 2011 meeting listed 17 topics, including 
"Executive Session" and "Open Action items from prior meetings." During the meeting, the 
Board voted to enter into executive session for about 20 minutes. The Board did not provide a 
purpose for the executive session. We reviewed the minutes of the executive session, in camera, 
but cannot recount their detail here because the minutes have not yet been publicly disclosed by 
1 
===PAGE 2===
the Board. It is not clear from the minutes of the Board's open session if it discussed any "Open 
action items from prior meetings." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hour prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and every notice shall include "the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonable anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The topics must be listed with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. In 
addition to posting proper notice of the executive session, the Open Meeting Law requires that 
"before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating 
all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). See also District Attorney for Northern Dist. v.  
School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that 
is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). 
Here, the notice for the Board's September 12, 2011 meeting did not include "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03. The topic listed as "Executive Session" should have included the specific purpose 
for the executive session. The Board argues in its October 31, 2011 letter that "[i]n both the 
agenda listings and the announcement of the executive sessions the Board was concerned that 
any additional information would in fact compromise the purpose of the executive session." We 
appreciate the need to keep the details of certain executive sessions confidential. But the law 
requires, at minimum, that the Board provide at least one of the ten purposes listed at G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). The executive session on September 12, 2011 appears to have been held to 
"discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). The Board could have provided that language, or even simply listed "Executive 
Session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1)." Additionally, the Board was required to state the reason 
it was entering executive session during the open session of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). 
The complaint also alleges that the Board's notice included a topic listed only as "Open 
Action items from Prior Meetings," without providing necessary detail. In reviewing the 
minutes of the Board's September 12, 2011 meeting, it is not clear whether the Board discussed 
any "Open Action items from prior meetings." We remind the Board that any topics reasonably 
anticipated by the chair more than 48 hours prior to a meeting must be included in the meeting 
notice. Presumably, any action items that are still open from a prior meeting could be reasonably 
anticipated by the chair. Therefore, this topic should be more detailed. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
A/sistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Rose Borgnis 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 