===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       March 6, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 27 
 
 
Bryan Smith 
Town Administrator 
Town of Erving 
12 East Main Street 
Erving, Massachusetts 01344 
 
By email only: bryan.smith@erving-ma.gov 
 
 RE:  Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Smith: 
 
This office received a complaint from Todd Wallack on December 20, 2022, alleging that 
the Erving Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 30, 2022, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 19, 202022.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice with respect to 
an executive session topic for a meeting held on November 7, 2022. 
 
We resolve this matte
 r by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session minutes of the Board 
meeting held on November 7, 2022.  In addition, we communicated with Attorney Brian Falk on 
January 11, 2023, and January 25, 2023.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the way alleged. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for 
any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and 
the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.1   
 
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
s
ession, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3); see also District Attorney 
for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of 
the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); OML 2016-72.  
 
 He
re, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on November 7, 2022, at 6:30 P.M.  
The notice listed one topic, an executive session pursuant to Purpose 1.  The November 7, 2022, 
meeting was held as planned and the Board convened in open session.  Board Chair Jacob Smith 
moved to enter into executive session under Purpose 1 “to discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than the professional competence, of an individual, or 
to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual” and announced that the Board would not 
reconvene in open session after the conclusion of the executive session.  The Board then 
approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session.  Neither the notice nor 
the Chair’s announcement prior to convening in executive session identified the individual to be 
discussed during the executive session or any additional detail about the specific nature of the 
charges or complaints against the individual. 
 
A public body may convene in executive session under Purpose 1 to “dis
 cuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  The 
individual to be discussed in such executive session must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, and be afforded the right to be 
present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own 
behalf, the right to have an attorney present for the purpose of advising but not participating in 
the meeting, and the right to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session 
by audio-recording or transcription, at the individual's expense.  Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that the  meeting notice lacked sufficient specificity because it did 
not identify the individual to be discussed in executive session.  A public body must disclose as 
much information as possible about what will be discussed in executive session without 
compromising the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2015-136.  When discussing an 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
individual in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, a public body may omit identifying 
infor
mation about that individual from the meeting notice where the body is concerned about 
protecting the privacy of that individual.  See OML 2017-74; OML 2016-15; OML 2013-141.  
Attorney Falk informed our office that the Board was concerned about protecting the privacy of 
the individual.  Moreover, because Purpose 1 is used to protect the privacy of the individual who 
is the subject of the closed door discussion, a public body is generally not required to provide 
additional detail about the specific subject matter of its executive session discussion, such as the 
nature of the complaints or charges.  See OML 2015-157; OML 2015-106; OML 2013-20.  We 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting from the notice the 
identity of the individual or additional detail about the specific nature of the complaint with 
respect to the executive session topic.   
 
With respect to the conc
 erns raised in the complaint that the open session minutes of the 
Board meeting held on November 7, 2022, also fail to omit the identity of the individual or 
additional detail about the specific subject matter of the executive session topic, we find that the 
minutes are accurate and sufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  Here, the 
minutes include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as the members who were 
present.  Further, the minutes include the motion made by Chair Smith to convene in executive 
session and the Chair cited to the specific statutory language listed in the Open Meeting Law for 
Purpose 1, which was also how the purpose was listed on the notice, and the votes taken by roll 
call.  Because the Board did not identify the individual to be discussed during the executive 
session or mention the specific complaints or charges against that individual in open session 
prior to convening in executive session, the minutes necessarily do not include any reference to 
that information.  See OML 2020-75 (our office reviews meeting minutes to ensure that they 
accurately reflect the discussions that take place during meetings).   
 
Finally, Attorney Falk confirmed that the individual discussed in executive session was 
given t
he required 48 hours’ written notice of the executive session meeting and was further 
provided with an opportunity to attend the executive session and have the discussion in open 
session.  See G.L. c. 30A,§ 21(a)(1).  Therefore, we find that the Board complied with the law’s 
requirements in this regard.  See OML 2014-124.  
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Todd Walla ck – By email only:   
 Brian Falk, Esq. – By email only: bfalk@MirickOConnell.com  
  Erving Town Clerk – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
