===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 2, 2015 
OML 2015-76 
John Vassapolli, Esq. 
Saugus Town Counsel 
320 Central Street 
Saugus, MA 01906 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Vassapolli: 
This office received three related complaints, from Mr. Christopher Brown, Mr. Joseph 
Dennis Gould, and Ms. Cynthia Fordham, alleging that the Saugus Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Brown's complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on March 25, and the Board responded by letter dated April 6.1 
Mr. Brown then filed his complaint with our office on April 15. Mr. Gould's complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on March 19, and the Board responded by letter dated April 6. 
Mr. Gould then filed his complaint with our office on April 21. Ms. Fordham's complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on March 19, and the Board responded by letter dated April 6. 
Ms. Fordham then filed her complaint with our office on April 27. All three complaints allege 
that the Board entered executive session on one occasion without listing the executive session on 
the meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Board's responses; and the 
requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the meeting notice and open 
session minutes of a Board meeting held on March 18. Finally, we reviewed, in camera, the 
minutes of an executive session held on the same date. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 Mr. Brown's complaint also alleges that the Board failed to indicate who took the minutes during the meeting at 
issue. While the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes be kept during all open and executive sessions, see G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 22(a), there is no requirement that a public body list the name of the person who creates meeting minutes. 
We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not including this information. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body which meets at 
regular intervals to discuss and act on matters of governance in the Town of Saugus (the 
"Town"). The Board posted notice on March 12, for a meeting to take place on March 18. The 
notice for the March 18 meeting did not list any anticipated executive sessions. 
On March 17, the day before the meeting at issue, the Town held a special election in 
which four of the five Board members were recalled and four new Board members were installed 
in their place. At the March 18 meeting, Debra Panetta, the lone Board member who had not 
been subject to the recall, was elected Chair. During that same meeting, the Board entered 
executive session to discuss strategy regarding pending litigation. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[e]xcept in an emergency... a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays. In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably 
possible prior to such meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The meeting notice must include "the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Id 
Here, we find that Chair Panetta did not anticipate the executive session discussion at 
issue. A public body need only list topics in a meeting notice that were reasonably anticipated by 
the chair. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added); OML 2015-12. Because Chair Panetta was 
not the chair at the time the meeting notice was created, and because the results of the recall 
election could not have been known at the time the meeting notice was created, she could not 
have anticipated the executive session discussion that took place. We therefore find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering executive session on March 18. We 
note, however, that as a best practice our office recommends that, whenever possible, public 
bodies update their meeting notices or postpone discussion of topics that arise fewer than 48 
hours before a meeting, so that members of the public may be given advance notice of agenda 
items.3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
3 See Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Mr. Christopher Brown 
Mr. Joseph Dennis Gould 
Ms. Cynthia Fordham 
Saugus Board of Selectmen 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 