===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
February 11, 2013 	 www.mass.gov/ago  
OML 2013 — 15 
Robert S. Troy 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563-1866 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received a complaint from David Still II, Editor of the Barnstable Patriot 
Newspaper, dated August 9, 2011, alleging that the Barnstable County Board of Regional 
Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint specifically alleges that the Board listed "Votes of the Board of Regional 
Commissioners" as a topic for its June 29, 2011 meeting, and that the topic did not provide 
enough specificity to give the public an understanding of the topic that would be discussed at the 
meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 20, 2011, and the 
Board responded to that complaint by letter dated August 5, 2011. 1  
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board's notice for its June 29, 2011 meeting did not meet the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the July 
20, 2011 complaint and the Board's August 5, 2011 response. We also reviewed the notice 
posted for the June 29, 2011 and August 3, 2011 meetings. Finally, we reviewed the minutes 
and video recording from the June 29, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
The Board scheduled a meeting for June 29, 2011. In its notice for the meeting, the 
Board listed  three  topics: 1) "Vote to Approve Minutes of previous meetings(s);" 2) "Votes of 
the Board of Regional Commissioners;" and 3) "Ratify the actions taken by the County 
Administrator and/or Assistant County Administrator regarding Personnel Actions." During the 
June 29, 2011 meeting, a motion was made to "Approve the Summary of Actions." The motion 
was seconded and passed. Although not specifically identified or discussed during the June 29, 
2011 meeting, the June 29, 2011 minutes provide an enumerated list describing in detail twenty-
nine (29) actions that were ratified by the Board as a result of this vote. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all complaints shall be in writing, using the form approved by the Attorney 
General and available on the Attorney General's website." 940 CMR 29.05. Although this complaint was not 
submitted on the Open Meeting Law Complaint Form, the Board responded to the substantive issues raised in the 
complaint. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
In the Board's August 5, 2011 response to the complaint, the Board states, "[t]he act of 
voting to execute documents that have previously been approved by County personnel does [not] 
constitute a 'topic' to be 'discussed' within the scope of the Open Meeting Law. Such action is a 
routine ministerial matter that does not require deliberation or discussion." The Board contends 
that because there was no "discussion" of these items "such actions are not required to be 
individually listed on the meeting notice's list of topics." The Board further contends that the 
"[e]xecution of documents by a public body does not require a vote but instead requires the 
ministerial act of signing a document." 
DISCUSSION  
The Open Meeting Law states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition 
to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30 § 
20(b). Furthermore, "[n]otice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was 
reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public body, must be listed in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. 2  
Here, the Board makes clear in its August 5, 2011 response that the chair of the Board 
reasonably anticipated the items to be ratified during the June 29, 2011 meeting. However, the 
notice for the June 29, 2011 meeting included only a broadly stated item indicating that the 
actions taken by the County Administrator and/or Assistant County Administrator regarding 
personnel actions would be ratified during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that the 
Board list those topics anticipated by the chair with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03. A notice which states "Votes 
of the Board of Regional Commissioners" and "Ratify the action taken by the County 
Administrator and/or Assistant County Administrator regarding Personnel Actions" does not 
provide sufficient specificity. See OML 2011-11 (finding that a soil conservation board was 
required to list in its notice the specific permits it would consider at a meeting).3  Although the 
2  See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetina:  
Q: How specific must the listing of topics be in the meeting notice? 
A: The listing of topics must contain enough specificity to give the public an understanding of each topic that will be 
discussed. It is not sufficient to list broad topic categories, such as "Old Business." For example, when the Chair of 
a Board of Selectmen reasonably anticipates a discussion about on-going traffic improvement projects in town at the 
next Board meeting, it would be appropriate for the Chair to list that topic in the notice as: "Discussion of Traffic 
Improvement Projects at the intersection of Main and Pleasant Streets; and at the intersection of Elm and Oak 
Streets." In some instances, there may be overlap in the posting requirements of the Open Meeting Law and other 
statutes. In most cases, the information required by the controlling statute will satisfy the Open Meeting Law 
meeting notice requirements, however for specific questions please contact the Division of Open Government. 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board did not discuss each item to be ratified during the June 29, 2011 meeting, to the extent that 
the Board was aware which specific actions it would ratify during that meeting, it should have 
taken the additional step of listing details of those specific actions in the meeting notice. This 
level of detail is necessary to enable the public to understand what business will be transacted by 
the Board and, where members of the public have an interest, to attend the meeting and witness 
the relevant deliberations. Even where a public body does not intend to discuss a topic before 
conducting a vote, the specific topic should be listed in the notice so that members of the public 
are aware of the potential action. 
We acknowledge and commend the actions that the Board has taken in response to this 
complaint, including its commitment to list in future notices any documents that require 
discussion or deliberation prior to execution. The Board has also indicated that if deliberation is 
required with respect to execution of a specific document that was not included in the meetings 
notice, such item will not be discussed and will be placed on the agenda for the following 
meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board's notice for its June 29, 2011 meeting was not sufficiently specific 
to comply with the Open Meeting Law. We do not believe the Board acted with intent to 
circumvent the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, and the Board has committed to 
including additional detail in future meeting notices. We therefore order the Board's immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. See 940 
CMR 29.02. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please 
feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be 
inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 David Still II 
cc: 	 Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 