===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 161 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathleen McKay 
General Counsel 
Town of Plymouth 
26 Court Street 
Plymouth, MA 02360 
 
kmckay@plymouth-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McKay: 
 
This office received a complaint from Meg Sheehan of Community Land & Water 
Coalition on June 10, 2025, alleging that the Pilgrim 1600 Acre Plan Team (the “Team”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Town of Plymouth on March 16, and you responded on behalf of the Town by letter dated 
March 25.
1  In her complaint, Ms. Sheehan alleges that the Team violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it did not post notice of meetings, did not create or maintain minutes, and otherwise 
failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Team was not a public body and therefore could 
not have violated the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Town’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed documents relative to the Pilgrim 1600 Acre Area Plan prepared by the Team, 
including slide shows for two public forums, and a Summary Report (August 2025 draft).
2  We 
reviewed an announcement of “the beginning of the Pilgrim 1600 Acre Area Planning Process,” 
posted to the Town website on January 13, 2025.
3  Finally, we viewed a promotional recording 
 
1 All dates are in 2025 unless otherwise stated. 
2 We accessed these documents at https://pilgrim1600.engage.sasaki.com/#resources.  
3 We accessed the announcement through the Wayback Machine at 
https://web.archive.org/web/20250331230232/https://www.plymouth-ma.gov/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=251. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
entitled “Town of Plymouth 1600 Acre Area Plan Survey & Upcoming Public Events Promo” on 
a YouTube channel, The Local Seen.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The “Pilgrim 1600” site refers to the large tract of land that 
once hosted the now decommissioned Pilgrim nuclear power station in Plymouth, Massachusetts.  
The Pilgrim reactor was shut down in 2019.  In November 2024, the Town hired a planning 
consultant team to “facilitate a community-centered process of envisioning the future of the 
Pilgrim 1600 site.”  The project was completed under the direction of the Town of Plymouth 
Department of Planning and Development with additional organizational support provided by the 
Plymouth Foundation and the Old Colony Planning Council.  The Team consisted of Sasaki 
Associates (“Sasaki”), a planning, landscape architecture, architecture and urban design firm, 
Landwise Advisers (“Landwise”), a real estate and market consultancy, and Vanasse Hangen 
Brustlin (“VHB”), an engineering, planning and design consulting firm.  The Town did not play 
a role in appointing anyone to the Team.   
 
On January 13, the Town posted the following announcement on its website:  “The Town 
of Plymouth is excited to announce the beginning of the Pilgrim 1600 Acre Area Planning 
Process!  Over the next several months the Town of Plymouth will be engaging the community 
in a public input survey and series of workshops to explore the potential of the Pilgrim1600.”  
The Town included three links: (1) “Visit the website,” which leads to the project website, 
https://pilgrim1600.engage.sasaki.com; (2) “Take the survey”; and (3) an RSVP to a visioning 
session. 
 
Around the same time, a promotional recording was posted to The Local Seen, a 
community news and stories division of Plymouth Area Community Television.  The recording 
describes the Pilgrim 1600 site and explains that the Town has been exploring opportunities for 
economic development on the property to help offset loss of jobs and tax revenue and to increase 
the quality of life for residents.  The recording goes on to say that the Town is turning to its 
residents for input and that it has launched the Pilgrim 1600 acre area planning process.  The 
survey and visioning session were again mentioned as ways for residents to become involved.   
 
The visioning session took place as scheduled on February 13.  The slide show for the 
visioning session identified ten individual representatives of the Team consultants, Sasaki, VHB 
and Landwise, as facilitators of the visioning session.  Organizational support was provided by 
the Town of Plymouth, the Plymouth Foundation and Old Colony Planning Council.   
 
Roles were defined as follows:  
 
• Community’s Role – Communicate a vision that meets your needs. 
• Consultant Team’s Role – Translate that vision into a long-term, economically and 
technically feasible plan. 
 
4 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QV0D1RnOSoc. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
• Town’s Role – Work with the landowner to advocate for the realization of this vision. 
 
After a 20-minute introductory presentation, the representatives of the three consulting 
firms on the Team facilitated an 80-minute visioning activity during which “Four Big Questions” 
were presented as prompts for discussion among residents attending the visioning session.   
 
The Team held a second public forum on April 10.  At the second forum, the Team noted 
that it had met with town infrastructure personnel, town public safety personnel, town recreation, 
forestry, sustainability and environment personnel, the Town Manager’s office, Select Board and 
Planning Board members, conservation non-profits, and real estate experts. The Team also noted 
that it had received 3,814 survey responses and that 175 people attended the February 13 
visioning session.  At the April 10 public forum, the Team reviewed some of the challenges and 
opportunities that had been presented during the first forum and distilled the community’s 
preferences, as reflected in feedback received.  The Team presented three development concepts 
for public discussion.  A dedicated website, https://pilgrim1600.engage.sasaki.com, includes 
links to slide shows presented at the two public forums and to the Select Board at its August 19 
meeting.  At the bottom of the home page of this website, it states “Team,” followed by 
“Initiative of the Town of Plymouth,” and “This Project is Supported by” the U.S. Economic 
Development Administration, Old Colony Planning Council, and the Plymouth Foundation.  As 
noted above, however, the documents accessible through the links consistently define the Team 
as consisting of Sasaki, Landwise and VHB, with “organizational support” and “staff guidance” 
from departments and boards of the Town of Plymouth. 
 
Notice of the Select Board’s August 19 meeting includes as a topic a presentation of the 
August 2025 Summary Report by Sasaki and the Director of Planning & Development, Lee 
Hartman.
5  The Summary Report notes that the “Pilgrim 1600 Acre Area Master Plan represents 
the results of a robust conversation with the Plymouth community, local non-profits, business 
partners, and Town agencies to define together a future for this land.”  It further states that 
“[t]hroughout the process, the planning consultant team coordinated its efforts with Town of 
Plymouth staff and the Plymouth Foundation.  The planning consultant team presented progress 
and findings to members of the Plymouth Select Board, Plymouth Foundation and Plymouth 
Planning Board in public meetings.”  The Team’s role in each phase of the project included but 
was not limited to “market and site analysis with a lens toward measuring the suitability of this 
property for future alternative uses”; launch of a community survey; synthesis of findings to 
identify feasible opportunities for property use; preparation of three master plan concepts to 
showcase the range of possibilities; solicitation of public feedback to master plan concepts and 
development of recommendations.  The Summary Report summarizes findings and land use 
recommendations developed by the Team and provides three master plan concepts.  According to 
the project website, https://pilgrim1600.engage.sasaki.com, the Pilgrim 1600 Acre Area Plan was 
accepted by the Select Board at its meeting on August 19. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
 
5 As of the date of this letter, minutes of the August 19 meeting were not available online.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2025-48; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.6  
 
 Beginning with the first factor, we note that t he Team was comprised of representatives 
of three consulting firms.  The Town retained these consulting firms to help it envision a future 
for the Pilgrim 1600 site.  The Town did not appoint any of the Team members.  It is true that the 
Team worked closely with Town staff and reported back to public bodies of the Town, including 
the Select Board and Planning Board, about its progress on the Pilgrim 1600 Acre plan.  
Additionally, the Town promoted the Team’s work and encouraged public participation in the 
survey and Team forums.  However, this participation by the Town did not bring the Team 
“within government.”  See OML 2025-48 (group of residents advancing citizen’s petition to 
establish affordable housing overlay was not public body, even though town promoted public 
forums); OML 2017-190 (Advisory committee was not “within government” because it was a 
“private undertaking,” even though it was composed of representatives from private groups, 
school staff and School Committee members, and enjoyed the support of the school 
superintendent); OML Declination 12-20-21 (Cambridge Highlands) (rejecting complainant’s 
argument that “placement of contact information for [neighborhood association] on the City of 
Cambridge’s website” transforms it into “an arm of the City.”).   
 
That the team was comprised of private consultants is not the end of our inquiry, 
however.  When an entity is not clearly placed within government by law, as is the case here, the 
entity may still be “within” government if i) the government played a significant role in creating 
or structuring the entity, ii) the government has control over the entity, and iii) the entity 
primarily performs an essentially governmental function.  See OML 2025-32; OML 2010-1; see 
also Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. Bd. of Trustees of Leonard Morse Hosp., 389 Mass. 729 
(1983).  If an entity fails even one of these additional factors, then we will find that it is not 
clearly placed within government and it is not a public body.  See OML 2025-32 (finding that the 
Malden Community Fund Committee was not “within” government where it met the first two 
additional factors but failed the third).  Here, we find that the Team did not primarily perform an 
essentially governmental function.  The Team was hired by the Town to study and propose 
options for development of the Pilgrim 1600 site, a subject that was within the expertise of the 
consultants who comprised the Team.  Consultancy of the kind provided by the Team to the 
Town is not an essentially governmental function.  Indeed, the private firms that made up the 
Team were hired for their expertise so that they could make recommendations to the Town on 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
how the Town could exercise its governmental functions relative to development of the Pilgrim 
1600 site.  We find therefore that the Team did not primarily perform an essentially 
governmental function and as a result was not “within” government.  Because we find that the 
Team was not within government, we need not address whether it was empowered to act 
collectively or served a public purpose. See OML 2023-206 (failure to meet one of the three 
factors is determinative); OML 2015-22 (same).  We must conclude that the Team was not a 
public body. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Team was not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Team.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kelly McElreath, Plymouth Town Clerk (via email: kmcelreath@plymouth-ma.gov) 
Attorney Meg Sheehan, Community Land & Water Coalition (via email: 
) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
