===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 57 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bob Valery 
Health Agent for the Town of Halifax 
Bob.Valery@halifax-ma.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Agent Valery: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 8, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Halifax Board of Health (the “Board”), and specifically its chair, Candice Greene, violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about September 8, and you responded on behalf of the Board by email on 
September 21. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed and voted on two disposal works permits and two invoices that were not listed on the 
meeting notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, notices for Board meetings held on September 6 and 20, and video recordings of the 
Board’s September 6 and 20 meetings.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice at least 48 hours in advance 
of any meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
Open Meeting Law further requires that meeting notices include, among other things, a list of the 
topics that the chair, and any other individual responsible for creating the notice, reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-152.
3 A public 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s September 6 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b7jT5Cc9vog. A video recording of the Board’s September 20 meeting can be 
found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XJ5yqOhZnc8. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
body may discuss, and even vote on, a truly unanticipated topic that has arisen within 48 hours of 
a meetin
g. See OML 2020-172. However, the Attorney General strongly recommends that public 
bodies postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-
131.  
 
After r
eview of the meeting notice for the Board’s September 6 meeting as well as a 
video recording of the meeting, we understand that prior to the meeting information was received 
regarding two additional disposal works permits and additional invoices were received as well. 
The Board discussed and voted on the two additional disposal works permits under the notice 
topic “Disposal Works Permits” and approved the additional invoices, along with others, under 
the topic “Expense Account# 01-512 – FY 24-.” The complaint does not allege that these 
additional matters were anticipated more than 48 hours in advance of the meeting; rather, the 
complaint simply alleges that the items were discussed but not included on the meeting notice 
and that the Board did not amend the notice. Although we encourage public bodies to amend 
meeting notices when an unanticipated topic arises that it wishes to discuss, the Open Meeting 
Law does not require that they do so.  
 
Based on the information before us, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. Additionally, we note that during the Board’s September 20 meeting the 
Board voted again regarding the two disposal permits and the additional invoices at issue here. 
These matters were listed on the notice for the Board’s September 20 meeting. Therefore, even if 
the Board had violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged, it had already taken appropriate 
remedial action prior to the complaint being filed with our office.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Candice Greene, Chair, Halifax Board of Health  
(via email: Candice.Greene@halifax-ma.org)  
Susan Lawless, Halifax Town Clerk (via email: Susan.Lawless@halifax-ma.org) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 