===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 17, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 194 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Heather Butler 
Town Administrator 
Town of West Boylston  
140 Worcester Street  
West Boylston, MA 01583 
 
hbutler@westboylston-ma.gov 
     
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Town Administrator Butler: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney John Clifford on August 4, 2025, alleging 
that the West Boylston Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 9.
1  You responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated June 5.2  In the complaint, Attorney Clifford alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide copies of meeting minutes in 
response to his request.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 5. 
2 The Board is reminded that unless an extension has been granted, a public body must, within 14 business days of 
receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, meet to review the complaint, respond to the complainant, send a copy  
of the complaint to the Attorney General’s Office, and notify the Attorney General’s Office of any remedial action 
taken.  G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6).  The Board requested an extension from the complainant but 
the complainant did not agree to an extension.  The Board did not request an extension from the Attorney General’s 
Office.  See  29.05(5)(b) (“If the public body requires additional time to resolve the complaint, it may obtain an 
extension from the Attorney General by submitting a written request within 14 business days after receiving the 
complaint. A request may be submitted by the chair, the public body’s attorney, or any person designated by the 
public body or the chair. The Attorney General will grant an extension if the request demonstrates good cause. ”). 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
On April 23, the complainant emailed Town Clerk Daymian Bartek, seeking copies of 
specified open session and executive session meeting minutes.  The email concluded with a 
“reminder” that the requested minutes “must be provided within ten (10) days, whether or not 
such minutes have been approved, even if the requested minutes are in draft form.”  The email 
did not cite to the Open Meeting Law or the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, … be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Open Meeting Law also provides that “[u]pon request by any 
person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion thereof, the body 
shall respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and shall release any [non-exempt] 
minutes . . . .”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  A request for meeting minutes may fall under the Public 
Records Law or the Open Meeting Law, depending on how the request is made.  Where a request 
does not identify the Public Records Law or the Open Meeting Law, we have looked to other 
aspects of the request to determine how the recipient should reasonably construe the request.  We 
have said that a request for meeting minutes that is directed to a clerk or other employee as 
Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law.  See OML 2022-55; OML 
2020-20; OML 2019-126.3   
 
The request that is the subject of Attorney Clifford’s complaint was sent to the Town 
Clerk only, without any indication that it was intended for the Board or any request that it be 
forwarded to the Board.  The Town Clerk responded to the request on May 28.  Under the 
circumstances present here, we find that the request for meeting minutes was not a request that 
fell under the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-14.  A request for meeting minutes under the 
Open Meeting Law generally must be made to the public body.  See OML 2020-39; OML 
Declination 8-20-20 (Wellfleet Selectboard); OML 2019-125.  Cf. OML 2013-131 (request 
submitted to “Southwick Town Clerk or Record Custodian for BOS” was request under Open 
Meeting Law).  Attorney Clifford’s request did “remind” the Town Clerk that the requested 
minutes must be provided even if in “draft form,” language that tracks the Open Meeting Law.  
However, as the request was sent to the Town Clerk and did not specify the request was made 
under the Open Meeting Law, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to the request in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: John Clifford (via email:  
 Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@westboylston-ma.gov) 
 Select Board c/o Chair Kristina Pedone (via email: kpedone@westboylston-ma.gov)  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
