===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 6, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 232 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Cathy Melanson, Chair 
Fairhaven Planning Board 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven MA 02719 
 
cmelanson@fairhaven-ma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Melanson:  
 
This office received three complaints from Wayne Howard on September 16, 2024, 
alleging that the Fairhaven Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaints originally were filed with the Planning Board on July 241 and you2  
responded on its behalf by letters dated August 13.  All three complaints arise out of the Planning 
Board’s June 25 meeting.  The first complaint alleges that a member read documents aloud at the 
meeting, including a legal opinion on his phone, without providing copies to others or entering 
them into the public record.  The first complaint also alleges the Planning Board voted to censure 
two of its own members without including the censure vote or related discussion on the notice 
for the meeting.  The second complaint alleges that members engaged in “side bars” and 
whispering, and that Planning Board chair Cathy Melanson used her electronic device.  The third 
complaint alleges that the Planning Board discussed the complainant and emails he sent 
regarding the Fairhaven zoning bylaw, without including the discussion as a topic on the notice 
of the June 25 meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law at its June 25 meeting when it discussed and voted on a censure of two members, and when 
it discussed the complainant, topics that were not listed on the meeting notice.  We further find 
that the Planning Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when some members whispered 
to each other and when Chair Melanson used her phone.  We decline to review the remaining 
allegations of the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 Hereinafter, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaints, the Planning Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for 
further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice of the Planning Board’s June 25 meeting and 
viewed a recording of the Planning Board’s June 25 meeting.3  We viewed portions of recordings 
of meetings the Select Board held on June 10 and June 24.4  Finally, we reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the Select Board’s June 10 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Planning Board is an eight-member body.  Therefore, 
five members constitute a quorum.  On June 6, the Fairhaven Select Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on June 10.  The notice included a public hearing on an application to 
establish the Fairhaven Smart Growth Overlay District (“the Overlay District”).  In anticipation 
of the June 10 meeting, Planning Board members Kevin Grant and Jessica Wilder each 
submitted a letter to the Select Board, questioning the restoration of a waterfront district to the 
Overlay District.  They expressed concern that this revision was brought about hastily and 
without transparency.  They maintained that restoration of the waterfront district to the Overlay 
District also created the appearance of a conflict of interest, as two Planning Board members 
owned businesses in the area.  Finally, they suggested that the project would benefit from the 
expertise of a professional planner.  During the public hearing at the June 10 Select Board 
meeting, Select Board member Andrew Saunders listed four letters received by the Select Board 
on the topic of the Overlay District, including the letters of Mr. Grant and Ms. Wilder, and a 
letter submitted by the complainant.  The letters were not read into the record.  However, Select 
Board Chair Stasia Powers announced that they would be posted online.  The public hearing was 
continued to June 24. 
 
At the public hearing held during the Select Board’s June 24 meeting, Town Counsel, 
Attorney Adam Costa, addressed “murmurings in the community” and reactions to the Overlay 
District.  Attorney Costa disputed allegations that the process was rushed and lacked 
transparency.  Following further discussion by the Select Board, the Overlay District was 
approved at the June 24 public hearing. 
 
On June 20, the Planning Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on June 25, the first 
time it was to meet following the submission of the letters on June 10.  Under the heading 
“General Business,” the notice included the topic “40R Discussion.”  (Chapter 40R of the 
General Laws governs the establishment of the Overlay District; “40R” was used by both Boards 
and by members of the public as shorthand to refer to the Overlay District.)  Ms. Wilder did not 
attend the June 25 meeting.  Mr. Grant appeared via zoom but left the meeting early, prior to the 
vote that is the subject of the first Open Meeting Law complaint.   
 
When the Planning Board reached the “40R” discussion, Chair Melanson noted that the 
Select Board approved the Overlay District at its meeting the night before.  She appeared to want 
to move on from the controversy surrounding the Overlay District, stating that she wished to “get 
back to the business of doing business.”  Nonetheless, she acknowledged that there was “a lot of 
talk around the 40R,” and invited Mr. Grant to begin the discussion.  He reiterated some of the 
 
3 The recording can be accessed at https://vimeo.com/showcase/11047311.   
4 The recordings of both meetings can be accessed at https://vimeo.com/showcase/11047157?page=2. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
concerns articulated in his letter of June 10.  Other members of the Planning Board responded 
that they found Mr. Grant’s letter demeaning.  Mr. Grant’s suggestion of a conflict of interest 
was said to be “insulting” and “ridiculous.”  Mr. Grant refused to apologize for the letter he 
submitted to the Select Board.  As the discussion grew heated, Mr. Grant and Chair Melanson 
engaged in direct dialog, and then Mr. Grant abruptly left the meeting.  The discussion continued 
after Mr. Grant’s departure.  Chair Melanson accused Mr. Grant of undermining the Board, and 
labeled Ms. Wilder’s Facebook posts insulting.  “Kevin went rogue,” according to another 
member.  Some of those attending the June 25 meeting accused the former chair, presumably 
complainant Warren Howard,
5 of using Kevin Grant and Jessica Wilder to advance his 
arguments against the Overlay District. 
 
 The recording of the June 25 meeting shows whispering among some members.  Looking 
at his phone, Member Patrick Carr stated that “there’s a procedure I would like to share with the 
board.”  He read an explanation about a no confidence vote, without revealing the source of the 
information.  He recommended that the Planning Board censure Mr. Grant and Ms. Wilder to 
protect the board’s integrity and stop misinformation.  A motion to censure was made and 
seconded.  Further discussion followed.  Chair Melanson decried the “slander” to the board and 
the resulting loss of public trust.  All present members voted in favor of censure.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the June 25 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.6  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess what will 
occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See OML 2021-39; OML 2020-55; 
OML 2018-134.  A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the 
meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a 
 
5 Wayne Howard was chair of the Planning Board until at least November 10, 2022; he lost his re-election bid in 
April, 2023.  It appears that Ms. Melanson became chair in February, 2023. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
matter of best practice, table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant 
interest to the public so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future 
meeting.  See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119; OML 2013-87.   
 
The complainant alleges that the notice of the June 25 meeting was not sufficiently 
specific because it did not include as a topic of discussion the censure of members Kevin Grant 
and Jessica Wilder or the complainant’s statements about the Overlay District.7  In its response 
to the first Open Meeting Law complaint, the Planning Board insists that the censure and 
discussion of the complainant grew out of the topic “40R Discussion.”  Chair Melanson 
maintains that she had no knowledge of the plan to censure Mr. Grant and Ms. Wilder prior to 
the meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the 
facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  Moreover, the recording of the June 
25 meeting supports the Planning Board’s response.  At the beginning of the meeting, Chair 
Melanson expressed a desire to move on from the Overlay District.  Nonetheless, in apparent 
recognition of the impact the topic had on the board and on the town, she invited Mr. Grant to 
begin a discussion on the topic.  As the discussion grew more contentious, Chair Melanson and 
other members became increasingly agitated, even after Mr. Grant left the meeting.  They 
discussed the complainant’s past position on the Overlay District and possible action that could 
be taken against Mr. Grant and Ms. Wilder, leading to the censure vote.  Based on our viewing of 
the recording of the June 25 meeting, and Chair Melanson’s denial that she knew of the planned 
censure vote prior to the meeting, we find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing the complainant, Mr. Grant, and Ms. Wilder, as to the Overlay 
District.  For the same reasons, we also find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law when it censured Mr. Grant and Ms. Wilder. 
 
Although we find no violation, the objectives of the Open Meeting Law would have been 
better served if the censure discussion and vote had been continued to a future meeting to ensure 
proper notice to the public and to the subjects of the censure motion.  The Planning Board 
acknowledges that it would have been better practice to put the censure motion over to a later 
meeting to afford notice to the subjects of the motion.  To redress its hasty action against two of 
its members, the Planning Board rescinded the censure prior to receipt of the Open Meeting Law 
complaint.  Additionally, the Planning Board is “pursuing opportunities for further Open 
Meeting Law training,” according to its response. 
 
II. Whispering and side bars during the June 25 meeting did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
  
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open 
to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication 
 
7 Because the complainant does not allege that use of the term “40R” in place of “Fairhaven Smart Growth Overlay 
District” was insufficiently specific, we do not find a violation on that point.  However, we remind the Planning 
Board that the Attorney General’s Office discourages the use of abbreviations or acronyms in meeting notices, 
especially if they are not widely understood by the public.   See OML 2024-79; OML 2023-241; OML 2016-44. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
The recording of the June 25 meeting shows whispering between members of the 
Planning Board.  However, based upon our review of the recording, none of these whispered 
communications reached a quorum of the Planning Board.  Similarly, Chair Melanson can be 
seen using her phone at points during the meeting but there is no evidence that the phone was 
used to communicate with a quorum of the members.  Indeed, Chair Melanson confirmed that 
she did not send or receive any texts to or from other members during the meeting.  Because 
there was no whispering or electronic communication that reached a quorum of the Planning 
Board, there was no improper deliberation.  See OML 2022-117; OML 2021-176; OML 2018-
117.  Although we find no violation, we caution the Planning Board that use of electronic 
devices and whispering (even if it does not reach a quorum) can create an appearance of 
impropriety.  We note with approval the Planning Board’s commitment to limit whispering 
during future meetings. 
 
III. We decline to review the remaining allegations against the Planning Board 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We decline to review allegations that the Planning Board read documents without 
providing copies or entering them into the public record.8  Similarly, we decline to review the 
allegation that items on the meeting agenda were discussed out of order.  See OML 2014-35 
(explaining that the Open Meeting Law does not prohibit a public body from removing, 
postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice or taking topics in a 
different order than listed on the notice).  To the extent that the complainant alleges that 
members of a public body should not use their phones during a meeting at all, we decline to 
review this allegation as well.  These allegations fall outside the Open Meeting Law.  We offer 
no opinion on whether any action taken by the Planning Board could be a violation of any other 
law, bylaw or regulation.   
 
   
8 We remind the Planning Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include a list of 
documents used during a meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Although the Law does not define what it means for a 
document to be “used” during a meeting, we have said that a document is “used,” and must be listed in the minutes, 
when the document is physically present, verbally identified, and its contents discussed by the public body during a 
meeting.  See OML 2024-217; OML 2017-43; OML 2014-12.  We encourage the Planning Board to review whether 
all documents that meet this standard were listed in the minutes of the June 25 meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Planning Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Planning Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if 
you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Wayne Howard (via e-mail: )  
 Fairhaven Town Administrator (via e -mail: alopesellison@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
  Fairhaven Town Clerk (via e- mail: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
