===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 20, 2015 
OML 2015-174 
Tammy Murray, Director of Elder Affairs 
Kingston Council on Aging 
30 Evergreen Street 
Kingston, MA 02364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Murray: 
This office received a complaint from James Nickerson, dated November 2, alleging that 
the Kingston Council on Aging (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on September 4, and the Council 
responded by letter dated September 14. In his complaint, Mr. Nickerson alleges that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) adjourning a meeting without discussing all 
topics on the meeting notice; and (ii) not allowing him to speak during an open meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Council's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed all documents provided with 
these filings. Finally, we spoke with the Director of Elder Affairs by telephone on November 
10.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council held a meeting on August 11. The notice for 
this meeting stated that the Council would discuss five staff reports, followed by "New, Old and 
Other Business." The complainant was present during the August 11 meeting. When the "New, 
Old and Other Business" portion of the meeting arrived, the chair motioned to adjourn. The 
complainant objected, as the full agenda had not been discussed. Nevertheless, the motion was 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 The request for further review contains several allegations that were not part of the original complaint—namely, 
that the minutes of the August 11 Council meeting do not accurately reflect his comments; that the Council's 
secretary creates minutes using video recordings of meetings; and that the Council fails to post minutes online. 
Because these allegations were not raised in the original complaint filed with the Council, we decline to review them 
now. See OML 2015-66. A public body must be allowed an opportunity to investigate and take appropriate 
remedial action with regard to all violations alleged. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
seconded, and the meeting was adjourned. The minutes of the August 11 meeting read, in part, 
as follows: "After the meeting was adjoumed[,] Mr. Nickerson stated [that he was] upset that he 
was not able to discuss items to be added, by him, to new business." 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Notices must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed. Id. The law does not prohibit a public body from removing, 
postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2012-23. 
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law states that, "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(g). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
adjourning prior to the discussion of new business, thereby preventing him from speaking during 
the meeting at issue. Because the Council was not required to discuss the items listed on the 
meeting notice, or to permit the complainant to speak during the meeting at issue, we find that 
the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-23. We note, however, that 
the Attorney General's Office encourages public bodies to allow participation from members of 
the public whenever possible. See Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, at 15, 
available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
As a final matter, we remind the Council that, within 14 business days after receiving an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General's Office a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5); G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b). The public body shall simultaneously notify the complainant that it has sent such materials 
to the Attorney General's Office and shall provide the complainant with a copy of the description 
of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the Director of Elder Affairs responded 
to the complaint directly and it appears that the Council did not meet in order to review the 
complaint before sending a response. See OML 2012-90; OML 2011-6. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Council of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: James Nickerson 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 