===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 29, 2014 
OML 2014-152 
Fernand J. Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
This office received a complaint filed by Richard Cohen, dated November 26, alleging 
that the Lanesborough Elementary School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' Specifically, the complaint alleges that on October 30, 
Committee member Robert Barton engaged in unlawful deliberation by sending an email to a 
quorum of the Committee. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 
30. The Committee responded by letter dated November 20. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Mr. Barton individually violated the Open Meeting Law 
by sending an email to a quorum of the Committee that expressed his opinion on matters within 
the Committee's jurisdiction. See OML 2011-37; OML 2011-35.2 In response to the complaint, 
the Committee agreed that the email constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law and 
committed to future compliance with the Law's requirements. 
The Committee is a three-member public body. On October 30, Committee member 
Robert Barton sent an email to the other two members, along with an attached document. The 
email read, "I wrote this up after last night and am sending it around to several people. I'd be 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
J In his request for further review of this complaint by our office, Mr. Cohen writes that the Committee did not 
acknowledge that it violated Open Meeting Law. In its response to the complaint, the Committee writes that it, "was 
not compliant with the Open Meeting Law." We interpret this as an acknowledgement by the Committee that it 
violated the Law. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
happy to discuss this at a future meeting, but in the interest of the open meeting law, please do 
not reply." Attached to the email was a two page document entitled, "Lanesborough 2020 A 
note from Bob Barton regarding issues facing our schools and town." The document discussed 
Mr. Barton's opinions on matters related to the school district. 
A "deliberation" is an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, deliberation does not include the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed. Id All deliberation must occur during a noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 
20(b). Mr. Barton's email to a quorum of the Committee distributed a document that expressed 
his opinions on matters of public business within the jurisdiction of the Committee. Mr. 
Barton's request that no one reply to his email suggests that he intended the attached document 
to be discussed at an upcoming meeting. However, Mr. Barton's use of a document to convey 
his opinions outside of a meeting did not convert this into a permissible communication. This 
was an unlawful deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2011-37; OML 2011-35. 
We believe that the Committee is now aware of its obligations under the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to sending emails between and among a quorum of its members. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that a 
future similar violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
Additionally, we order the Committee to publicly disclose Mr, Barton's October 30 email and 
the attached document at its next meeting, if it has not done so already. 
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. Please 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
"Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Lanesborough Elementary School Committee 
Richard Cohen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 