===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 5, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 63 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
200 Broadway 
Suite 304  
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Michael J. Long
1 on behalf of his client, 
Dr. Erin McMahon, on August 23, 2023,2 alleging that the Saugus School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about June 2, and, following an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Committee on June 30. The complaint 
alleges that during its May 30 meeting, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by voting 
to place Dr. McMahon on paid leave while convened in executive session and without providing 
Dr. McMahon prior notice of the meeting or any of the other rights afforded the subject of a 
Purpose 1 discussion.3  
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience while we reviewed this matter. Following our review, 
we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, and 
the request for further review. We also reviewed, in camera, redacted minutes of the 
Committee’s May 30 meeting and communicated with Attorney Greenspan via telephone and 
email.
4 
 
 
1 Dr. McMahon is now represented by Attorney Megan C. Deluhery. 
2 Unless otherwise stated, all dates are in the year 2023. 
3 These rights are discussed further below. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
By way of background, we note that the complaint concerns some of the events 
surrounding Dr. Erin McMahon, the now former Superintendent of Saugus Public Schools, being 
placed on leave and eventually terminated from her position as Superintendent. The 
circumstances of Dr. McMahon’s leave were the subject of arbitration. On July 28, 2025, the 
Arbitrator issued an award of damages to Dr. McMahon in the amount of $454,388.27, and the 
Superior Court recently upheld the award in a decision issued on February 25, 2026.5 Our 
determination is limited to the alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law that were raised in 
the June 2 complaint. We offer no opinion as to any other laws or any other claims. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 19, the Committee held an executive 
session meeting during which it discussed alleged complaints and concerns about Dr. McMahon. 
Dr. McMahon and her legal counsel were present at the January 19 executive session. On 
January 19, Dr. McMahon was placed on paid leave. Around this time, an investigation into Dr. 
McMahon was initiated.  
 
On February 15, Dr. McMahon, through legal counsel, filed a Demand for Arbitration 
with the American Arbitration Association. The demand alleged a breach of Dr. McMahon’s 
employment contract, specifically with respect to a provision that required  
 
[a]ny criticisms, complaints, and suggestions called to the attention of the 
Committee shall be promptly and discreetly referred to the Superintendent in 
writing for study, disposition, or recommendation as appropr iate to facilitate the 
orderly administration of the District and to ensure responsiveness to the public and 
fairness to the Superintendent.  Any such matter not promptly raised may not be 
considered in the summative evaluation as the Superintendent may not be aware of 
same or may not have sufficient time to take remedial action. 
 
The arbitration demand alleged that the Committee had failed to provide Dr. McMahon with any 
“detail or information about [the] putative ‘concerns’ and ‘potential concerns’” that the 
Committee asserted formed the basis for an investigation into Dr. McMahon and the need to 
place her on administrative leave.  
 
On May 24, Dr. McMahon’s legal counsel sent a letter to the Committee’s legal counsel 
asserting that it had been four months since the January 19 meeting and that “[d]espite repeated 
requests, no specific allegations or information about these areas of concern have been provided 
to Superintendent McMahon.” The letter further asserted that “[s]even weeks have passed since 
Ms. McMahon fully cooperated with the investigator and answered every question put to her. We 
have no news about the conclusion to the investigation, so-called, or [the investigator’s] 
recommendations, if any.” Finally, the letter explained that “[u]nder the circumstances, I am 
writing to advise the Committee that Superintendent McMahon is no longer willing to continue 
to remain absent from her work on what you have called a voluntary leave. She will report to 
work Monday, June 5.” 
 
5 McMahon v. Saugus Sch. Comm., Mass. Super. Ct., No. 2584CV02337 (Suffolk County February 25, 2026). 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Following receipt of the May 24 letter, the Committee posted notice for an executive 
session to be held on May 30 to discuss “Potential Litigation and arbitration strategy AAA #0l-
23-0000-77763 (Superientendent) [sic].”6 The Committee has represented to our office, through 
its legal counsel, that the May 30 executive session concerned the arbitration with Dr. McMahon 
and was motivated by the May 24 letter asserting that Dr. McMahon would return to work on 
June 5. We understand from review of redacted meeting minutes and communications with the 
Committee’s legal counsel, that during the May 30 executive session the Committee reviewed 
the events of the January 19 executive session, particularly with respect to Dr. McMahon’s leave; 
the May 24 letter stating that Dr. McMahon would return to work on June 5; the pending 
investigation; and the contractual provisions alleged to have been violated in the arbitration 
demand. As part of this discussion, the Committee voted to place Dr. McMahon on leave. 
 
On May 31, the Committee’s legal counsel sent a letter to Dr. McMahon’s legal counsel 
informing him that the Committee had voted to place Dr. McMahon on paid administrative leave 
and asserting that during the January 19 meeting, Dr. McMahon had been informed “that an 
investigation would be conducted relative to her administration of grant funds, conflict of 
interest, billing issues with outside consultants and the time of days in the district and out of 
district.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in open 
session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a). One such purpose is to “discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health . . . of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”). When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, 
the individual who is the subject of the discussion must “be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session,” and may cause the discussion to 
be held in open session rather than executive session. Id. The individual also has certain rights, 
including the right to be present during the executive session; to have counsel or another 
representative present; to speak on their own behalf; and to cause an independent record of the 
executive session to be created. Id.  
 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See 
Doherty v. Sch. Comm. of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. Sch. Comm. of 
 
6 Both the complaint and the response refer to a May 27 executive session; however, we understand the complaint to 
concern the May 30 executive session. Attached to the complaint as Exhibit 1 is the notice for a May 30 executive 
session to discuss “Potential Litigation and arbitration strategy AAA #0l-23-0000-77763 (Superientendent) [sic].” 
Additionally, we did not find any notice for a May 27 meeting of the Committee.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-5.7 When a discussion may properly be 
held under multiple executive session purposes, a public body may choose which executive 
session purpose or purposes to cite. See OML 2019-164; OML 2012-53. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee’s vote to place Dr. McMahon on paid leave 
during the May 30 executive session violated “the Open Meeting Law as it was taken without 
notice to the Superintendent that the Committee would take action against her based on the 
complaints or allegations raised in January, contrary to her rights under M. G.L. c.3 0A, § 21 (a) 
(i)(ii)(iii)(iv).” However, as explained above, when a discussion may properly be held under 
multiple executive session purposes, a public body may choose which executive session purpose 
or purposes to cite. If a discussion may properly be held under Purpose 1 or Purpose 3, a public 
body may choose to hold the discussion under Purpose 3 in which case the subject of the 
discussion does not have the rights afforded under Purpose 1. See OML 2020-76; OML 2019-
164; OML 2012-53. 
 
Based on the information before us, including the redacted meeting minutes and the 
Committee’s affirmative assertions that the overarching purpose for the executive session was to 
discuss the pending arbitration, we find that the Committee’s discussions held in executive 
session on May 30 were appropriately held under Purpose 3. See OML 2023-189 (finding proper 
a Purpose 3 executive session during which the public body voted to place the superintendent on 
paid leave where the public body convened in executive session to discuss an arbitration demand 
and a threat to file with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination); OML 2020-53 
(discussion of placing employee on administrative leave appropriate for executive session under 
Purpose 3 where the discussion related to the public body’s litigating position); OML 2020-76; 
OML 2019-164. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Stephanie Mastrocola, Chair, Saugus School Committee (via email: 
smastrocola@saugus.k12.ma.us)  
 Ellen Schena, Town Clerk (via email: eschena@saugus-ma.gov) 
Michael J. Long, Esq. (via email: mlong@long-law.com) 
Megan C. Deluhery, Esq., Todd & Weld, LLP (via email: mdeluhery@toddweld.com) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 