===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
March 12, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 33 
 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Owen Murphy on August 7, 2020, alleging that the 
Weston Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 5, 2020, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated July 6, 2020, following an extension of time granted by this Office.  In 
his complaint, Mr. Murphy alleges that the Board approved insufficiently detailed meeting 
minutes for executive sessions held on February 12 and February 26, 2019.  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving insufficiently detailed meeting minutes for its February 12 and February 26, 2019, 
executive session meetings, although we note that in response to the complaint, the Board 
amended the minutes in question to comply with the Law.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further review of the 
complaint.  We also reviewed additional correspondence from Mr. Murphy from November 2020 
and February 2021, which included the meeting notices and the original and amended meeting 
minutes for the executive sessions at issue.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 17, 2020, Mr. Murphy requested from the Board 
the executive session minutes for several meetings held during 2019, which had been approved 
at a recent meeting of the Board.  On May 12, 2020, he received the minutes.  The minutes of the 
February 12, 2019, executive session reflect that the Board voted to enter executive session to 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discuss “to discuss the purchase, exchange, lease or value of an interest in real property related to 
751-761 Boston Post Road.”  The substantive portion of the minutes, for a meeting that lasted 
approximately 30 minutes, states in its entirety: 
The Board considered whether or not the Town should exercise the right of first 
refusal for the property and consider the Town purchasing the property. The 
Board noted the Town would need to have an appraisal of the property before a 
decision to purchase could be made.   
Roll call vote to commission an appraisal in order to consider the Town's right of 
first refusal: Mr. Boshart and Mr. Houston voted in the affirmative. 
The minutes of the February 26, 2019, executive session reflect that the Board voted to 
enter executive session “to discuss the purchase, exchange, lease or value of an interest in real 
property related to 751-761 Boston Post Road.”   The substantive portion of the minutes, for a 
meeting that lasted approximately 22 minutes, states in its entirety: 
 
The Board considered whether or not the Town should exercise the right of first 
refusal for the property.” 
On June 23, 2020, after the complaint was filed regarding the sufficiency of these 
two sets of executive session meeting minutes, the Board revised both sets of meeting 
minutes, although the Board maintained that the minutes as originally approved were 
sufficiently detailed and satisfied the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  The 
revised minutes include significantly more detail regarding the discussions that occurred 
during the February 12 and February 26, 2019, executive sessions.  Mr. Murphy does not 
dispute the sufficiency of the revised meeting minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64.1  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106.  Although a 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark 
or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each 
topic.  See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  
 
1 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Here, the Board’s minutes of the February 12 and 26, 2019, executive sessions, as 
originally approved, fell short of the accuracy requirement in the Open Meeting Law.  The 
minutes generally identified the topics that were discussed, without any actual summary of the 
discussion.  The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement 
that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes 
summarize the discussion that was held.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  We therefore find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by approving insufficiently detailed minutes of its 
February 12 and February 26, 2019, executive sessions.    
We credit the Board for revising the minutes of the February 12 and February 26, 2019, 
executive sessions, in response to Mr. Murphy’s complaint, to include significantly more detail 
regarding the discussions that took place.  Mr. Murphy does not dispute – and we find – that the 
revised meeting minutes satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement.  However, we 
note our concern that despite voluntarily revising the meeting minutes, the Board maintains that 
the minutes as originally approved were satisfactory. 
Finally, we must determine whether the violation was, as Mr. Murphy urges, intentional. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  Mr. Murphy asserts that the insufficiently detailed minutes were part of a pattern to 
conceal a Board member’s involvement with the subject property.  In a prior determination, 
OML 2020-15, issued on February 4, 2020, less than three weeks before the meeting minutes at 
issue here were approved, we found that the Board intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law 
by approving minutes that it knew to be inaccurate when it removed a section from draft meeting 
minutes in order to conceal a particular matter from the public.  In that determination, we 
explained to the Board the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement for meeting minutes.  
However, that finding did not focus on the level of detail required for meeting minutes, but rather 
spoke to the Board’s intentional removal of specific information from the minutes.  We also take 
into account the Board’s willingness to revise its meeting minutes to include significantly more 
detail, in response to this complaint.  Although we acknowledge the similarities between the 
matters raised in the instant complaint and those addressed in OML 2020-15, especially in light 
of the fact that the executive sessions at issue here pertained to the same development project as 
that addressed in OML 2020-15, we decline to find an intentional violation in this instance.   
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by inaccurate minutes for executive sessions held on February 12 and 26, 2019.  Because the 
Board has already revised the meeting minutes to include sufficient detail, we order no further 
remedial action.  We order the Board immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Owen Murphy (via e-mail:  
 Weston Select Board (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
