===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
December 18, 2020 
        
OML 2020 – 167 
 
 
Chatham Airport Commission 
 c/o Huntley Harrison, Chair 
549 Main Street 
Chatham, MA 02633 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Harrison:  
 
 This office received a complaint from David Bixby on November 13, 2020, alleging that 
the Chatham Airport Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A,   §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on March 23, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated November 6, following an 
extension of time granted by our office.2  The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Commission’s March 10 meeting was insufficiently detailed because one of the topics did not 
afford the public “reasonable expectation of what was to be done.” 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the 
Commission’s March 10 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3  Finally, we 
spoke with the complainant by telephone on December 9. 
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 A video recording of the Commission’s March 10 meeting can be found at: 
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerFlex.aspx?PGD=chathamma&eID=3832. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Commission is a six-member public body; thus four 
members constitute a quorum.  
 
On March 6 at 4:50 P.M., the Commission posted notice of a meeting to held on March 
10 at 5:00 P.M.  The notice listed three main topics – Minutes, New Business, and Public 
Announcements and Agenda Item Requests.  Under the topic of New Business, the notice 
included seven sub-headings, one of which was Airport Master Plan Update.  This one sub-
heading further included ten additional sub-headings, which were: Process Overview 
Presentation, AMPU Facts, Commission Review - Answers to Questions, Email Transmittals 
09/09/19 thru 01/24/20, Further Answers to Questions on Chapters 1-4, Vision and Mission 
Statement, Draft AMPU Chapters 1-4 Overview, Public Comments/Questions on Chapters 1-4, 
Open Meeting Format/Schedule, and March 24, 2020 Meeting - Chapters 5 & 6. 
 
The March 10 meeting was held as planned.  The Commission unanimously voted to 
approve two sets of meeting minutes and received a report from the Airport Manager.  The 
Commission then heard from Matthew Caron, an engineer from Gale Associates, regarding two 
projects that the company was working on – the Airport Master Plan Update and the 
Reconstruction of Taxiway A and Stub Taxiways.  The Commission discussed the Airport 
Master Plan Update beginning with the Vision and Mission Statement in Chapter 1 and accepted 
comments from members of the public, including the complainant.  Mr. Caron then provided an 
overview of Chapters 1 through 4 of the Airport Master Plan Update.  The Commission 
proceeded to review the numerous questions it had received from the community and posted, on 
a projection screen, a document containing the questions it had received with corresponding 
answers.  Vice Chair Huntley Harrison4 then asked the complainant “if you would like to come 
up to the podium and be involved since most of these questions are yours, you’re welcome to do 
so.”  The complainant came to the podium but stated he was not prepared to speak and suggested 
that the agenda should have been more specific.  At that point, Vice Chair Harrison indicated that 
the Commission would table this matter but the Commission spent the next hour reviewing the 
previously received comments and receiving questions and comments from members of the 
public regarding the first four chapters of the Airport Master Plan Update. 
 
The Commission then discussed creating a Citizens Advisory Committee, inviting subject 
matter experts to future meetings to provide answers to the various questions submitted by the 
public, and hiring a public relations firm.  The Commission then approved a Capital Funding 
Article for Town Meeting to complete an environmental assessment associated with the Airport 
Master Plan Update.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
 
4 At the time of the March 10 meeting, Mr. Harrison was Vice Chair of the Commission. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider 
a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2018-13; OML 
2015-35.5 
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice for the Commission’s March 10 meeting “failed to 
provide an item with sufficient specificity.”  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the topic 
listed as “Public Comments/Questions on Chapters 1-4” was insufficiently detailed as it did not 
“allow me to prepare for the meeting” or afford the public “reasonable expectation of what was 
to be done,” i.e. would the Commission make a presentation, would the Commission allow the 
public to speak, or would the Commission deliberate on the issues raised by the public.  During 
this portion of the March 10 meeting, the Commission reviewed questions it had previously 
received and allowed those in attendance to comment on those questions or ask additional 
questions with respect to chapters 1 through 4 of the Airport Master Plan Update.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list each and every detail about a topic or all 
tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate the 
course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic 
with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2019-134; OML 2015-73; OML 
2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  We find that the March 10 notice was sufficiently 
detailed with respect to the Public Comments topic where the Commission discussed comments 
it had received and took questions from the public regarding the first four chapters in the Airport 
Master Plan Update.  Therefore, the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2020-41. 
 
Moreover, although the Commission allowed the complainant and other members of the 
public to speak during the meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
provide such opportunity but rather gives discretion to the chair of a public body to determine 
who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting.6  See OML 2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 
2012-59.  We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as 
time and circumstances permit.  See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.  In 
addition, while a public body may include a “public comment” section on its agenda to allow 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
6 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be permitted to speak or otherwise 
actively participate during a meeting, numerous laws in the Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held 
before the government takes certain action.  See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to 
the adoption, amendment, or repeal of regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing 
before a tomb, burial ground or cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a 
hearing on a proposed redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing 
on any zoning appeal, application or petition).  The specific procedures for notice and conduct of the public hearing 
are governed by the law requiring the hearing and such law may require opportunity for public comment.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting a public hearing.  As such, we do not offer any 
opinion on whether any actions taken by the Commission could be a violation of any other law or regulation 
requiring or governing a public hearing.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 1-25-18 (Rowley Planning Board); 
OML Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook Planning Board).   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
members of the public to address the public body, this practice is not required and occurs at the 
discretion of the public body and its chair, and does not need to be separately listed in a meeting 
notice.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2016-113; OML 2015-36; OML 2015-12; OML 2012-23.  
Finally, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to provide advance notice to an 
individual that he or she will be allowed to speak or may be discussed during an open session 
meeting.7  See OML 2012-85.   
 
The complaint also suggests that Commission members made disparaging comments 
during the March 10 meeting.  An allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility towards the 
public does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 6-28-16 
(Kingston Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 6-14-16 (Sterling Board of Selectmen).  
Nevertheless, we encourage civility by all individuals during meetings of public bodies.    
 
In his request for further review, the complainant suggests that a quorum of the 
Commission deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting by collaborating on a document 
that was discussed during the March 10 meeting.  We generally decline to review an allegation 
that was not included within the original complaint to the Commission because the Commission 
has not had an opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  We 
find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint and thus we do not 
review its merits.  However, we note that the Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or 
the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  The Open Meeting Law does not 
carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a 
decision or vote.  Any communication among a quorum of a public body on matters that are 
pending or will come before it and within the public body’s jurisdiction is considered 
deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen 
of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).  Moreover, the expression of an opinion of one public 
body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-
33.  We remind the Commission of its obligations under the law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This letter does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
 
7 The Open Meeting Law also does not require, as the complaint suggests, that a public body provide copies of 
documents used by the public body during the meeting to persons in attendance at a meeting, or that documents be 
posted to its website either prior to or after the meeting.  See OML 2018-140; OML 2016-94.  Nonetheless, we 
encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of all documents it intends to 
discuss.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this determination. 
 
      Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne   
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: David Bixby: By e-mail only –  
Terence Whalen, Principal Projects and Operations Administrator: By e-mail only – 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
