===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 84 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kenneth E. Fredette  
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
kfredette@fallriverma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fredette: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 10,
1 alleging that the Fall 
River Park Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 9, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 30, following an extension of time 
granted by this office. The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board meeting held on 
March 5 are insufficient where they fail to contain a list of documents used during the meeting 
and fail to “reflect the votes taken by name.”  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes and video recording of the 
Board meeting held on March 5.2  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board held a meeting on March 5. All five Board 
members were present in the physical meeting location at One Government Center in Fall River. 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on March 5 is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v= -
VV4pxPFC_o.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
During the meeting, the Board unanimously approved one set of meeting minutes and then 
unanimously approved the use of several parks for a field day, easter egg hunt, sensory play, 
veteran’s day, arbor day fair, school block party, and girls’ softball league. The minutes of the 
March 5 meeting record each vote as either “it was unanimously VOTED 5-0” or “it was 
unanimously VOTED 4-0” and then list the name of the Board member who abstained.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board cre
 ated insufficient minutes of the meeting held on 
March 5. The Board argues that this complaint is untimely and declined “to offer a formal 
response to the complaint.” To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be 
filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). When a 
public body approves minutes during an open session, any complaints regarding the timely 
creation, approval, sufficiency, or accuracy of those minutes generally must be filed within 30 
days of the meeting during which they were approved. See OML 2022-50; OML Declination 9-
4-12 (Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Board of Appeals).3 Here, the Board approved the minutes 
of the March 5 meeting in open session during a meeting held on April 2. Thus, we find the 
complaint, which was filed with the Board on or about April 9, to be timely filed.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The “date, time and 
place, members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes” must be included within the meeting 
minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the March 5 meeting do not include a list of 
docume
nts or exhibits used by the Board during the meeting but does not identify any documents 
that were used during the meeting but not listed in the minutes, nor even allege that any 
documents were used. We find this allegation insufficiently specific and decline to review it. See 
OML Declination 6-18-25 (Northborough Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
However, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that 
the minutes of a public body’s meeting include a list of all documents and exhibits used by the 
public body during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-91. The Open Meeting 
Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it 
is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are 
discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2024-115; OML 2024-152. We further clarify that 
it is insufficient to simply reference documents throughout the minutes or link to the documents; 
the minutes must contain a “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2024-148; OML 2019-29; OML 2018-70.  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint further alleges that the March 5 meeting minutes fail to “reflect the votes 
taken by na
me.” In certain circumstances—including when a public body member participates in 
a meeting remotely, when a public body votes to enter executive session, and when in executive 
session—votes must be taken by roll call, and the roll call votes recorded accordingly in the 
minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(2), 22(b); 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); OML 2025-54; OML 2015-
131; OML 2013-195. The votes taken during the Board’s March 5 meeting were not required to 
be—and were not—conducted by roll call and therefore the minutes need not document how 
each member voted. We find that the minutes of the March 5 meeting accurately include “the 
record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Fall River Park Board of Commissioners c/o Chair BJ McDonald (via email: 
)  
Fall River City Clerk (via email: city_clerk@fallriverma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
  
