===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 14, 2016 
OML 2016-152 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Grieco: 
This office received two related complaints from George Harris alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The first complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 26, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated May 13. This complaint was then filed with our office on 
July 5. The second complaint was filed with the Committee on May 23, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated June 14. The second complaint was then filed with our office on July 
21. In his complaints, Mr. Harris alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide sufficient information about several executive sessions in its meeting notices. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's responses, 
and the requests for further review filed with our office. We reviewed the minutes of open 
session Committee meetings held on April 7, 12, 15, and 21, and May 2. We reviewed, in 
camera, minutes of executive sessions held on those same dates, which contain minor redactions. 
We spoke with counsel for the Committee by telephone on August 12 and October 17. Finally, 
we reviewed a supplementary response sent by e-mail from Town Counsel Mark Lanza on 
October 28. 
We find the facts as follows. At issue are five Committee meetings held on April 7, 12, 
15, 21, and May 2. The notice for each meeting listed an anticipated executive session, 
described identically as follows: 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Discuss Strategy with Respect to Threatened Litigation under Title IX Anti-Retaliation 
Provisions and M.G.L. c. 149, § 185, by the Former Athletic Director Stephen Cass 
against the Wayland Public Schools and the School Committee, pursuant to M.G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(3). 
The Committee convened meetings on April 7, 12, 15, 21, and May 2 as planned. The 
chair's statements prior to entering executive session matched the description above that was 
given on the meeting notices. The minutes for these executive sessions have not been publicly 
released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail here. However, we note that, 
during the five executive sessions at issue, the Committee discussed a public statement 
concerning a recent lawsuit between the Town of Wayland and a former Athletic Director 
employed by the Wayland Public Schools.2 Based on statements made at prior Committee 
meetings, the Committee members believed that the former Athletic Director was likely to bring 
suit against the Town. The Committee discussed how to craft a public statement on the matter 
without affecting the Town's litigation exposure. The Committee released the public statement 
on May 3. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-15.3 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to... litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the... litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). When entering executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the litigation matter that it intends to discuss, both in the written notice and verbal 
statement made before entering executive session, if doing so will not compromise the executive 
session purpose. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide sufficient information 
about the discussions that took place during the five executive session at issue. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the descriptions given did not convey to members of the public that the 
Committee would be discussing the public statement regarding the litigation with Mr. Cass. We 
disagree. In prior determinations, we have required public bodies to disclose the name of the 
litigation matter under discussion, or to include some description of the litigation issue the body 
sought to discuss. See OML 2016-21; OML 2015-54. However, we have not required bodies to 
disclose information about executive session discussions to the extent urged in the complaint 
here. In the present case, the Committee provided the name of the former Athletic Director, as 
2 During the April 7, 15, and 21 executive sessions, the Committee also discussed the minutes of prior executive 
sessions. During the May 2 executive session, the Committee also discussed other pending litigation matters, These 
additional topics were also listed on the respective meeting notices. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
well as the fact that threatened suit would come under Title IX's anti-retaliation provisions. The 
Committee reasonably believed that disclosing additional information about the public statement 
would inflame an already-volatile situation and negatively impact the Town's litigating position. 
We therefore conclude that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
this allegation. See OML 2016-12. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Town Counsel 
Sincerely, 
1. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 