===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 3, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 90 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Paul DeRensis, Esq. 
Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. 
   
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney DeRensis: 
This office received two complaints from Attorney John Day, on behalf of his client 
Robert Piccirilli, on October 18, 2021, alleging that the Halifax Board of Selectmen (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were both 
originally filed with the Board on or about August 5, and you responded on behalf of the Board 
by letter dated August 18.1 The complaints allege that the Board improperly discussed the 
building inspector position during executive sessions held on July 20 and 23.2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the two complaints, the Board’s response, 
the request for further review, notices for the Board’s July 20 and 23 meetings, and minutes for 
the Board’s executive sessions held on July 20 and 23. We also communicated by email with 
Attorney Kawamoto of Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. in October through January of 2022. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
Prior to June 2021, Mr. Piccirilli served as the building inspector in Halifax, a position 
which is appointed by the three-member Board for a three-year term. Board Member Gordon 
Andrews recused himself from the building inspector appointment process, and on June 1 Board 
Member Ashley DiSesa declined to reappoint Mr. Piccirilli to the position. As a result, the Board 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated.  
2 To the extent that the complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding the 
appointment of the building inspector, we previously found no violation of the Open Meeting Law in OML 2022-28. 
We therefore decline to review this allegation here.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
interviewed multiple candidates for the building inspector position during a June 23 meeting, and 
ultimately appointed another candidate to the position. On June 22, Mr. Picarrelli filed a federal 
civil rights lawsuit seeking reappointment. The Board discussed this litigation in executive 
session during meetings held on July 20 and July 23, which meetings are the subject of this 
complaint.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One permissible reason to 
convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is 
pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee 
of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Ferryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.3 The public body invoking this executive session purpose 
must have litigating position to protect, and must declare in open session that having the 
discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on that position. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3); OML 2011-47. To fall within Purpose 3, the discussion must relate specifically to 
discussions of strategy; general discussions regarding litigation that do not relate to strategy do 
not fall within the limited scope of Purpose 3. See OML 2021-75. 
The complaints allege that the Board improperly discussed the building inspector position 
during executive sessions held on July 20 and 23. Indeed, general discussions regarding the 
position or the appointment or selection process would not have been appropriate for executive 
session. However, based on our in camera review of the Board’s July 20 and 23 executive 
session minutes, we find that the Board discussed the related, yet distinct, topic of the lawsuit 
filed by Mr. Piccirili against the Town. As the July 20 and 23 executive session minutes relating 
to the Piccirilli litigation have not been released to the public, we do not describe their contents 
in detail. We are satisfied that the Board’s discussions relating to the Piccirilli litigation were 
proper for executive session, and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
Although we find that the Board’s executive session discussions on July 20 and 23 were 
proper, we note that in August 2021 Mr. Piccirilli voluntarily dismissed the litigation which was 
the subject of the executive sessions. Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure 
to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but 
no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, 
the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in 
whole or in part, from disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes 
of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes 
is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has 
found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2017-104; 
OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. We therefore recommend that the Board review the July 20 
and 23 executive session minutes for potential release, if it has not recently do so.  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Day (via email:  
 Halifax Board of Selectmen c/o Selectmen Assistant Pamela McSherry 
  (via e-mail:  
Noemi Kawamoto, Esq., Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
