===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www. mass .gov/ago 
May 23, 2017 
OML 2017-85 
John Georgio, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Georgio: 
This office received a complaint from Linda Williams on November 7, alleging that 
the Nantucket Historic District Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
about August 23, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated September 
8. In her complaint, Ms. Williams alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of noticed 
meetings.2 In addition, Ms. Williams alleges that certain notices lacked sufficient detail.3 
Finally, Ms. Williams alleges that the August 16 meeting minutes failed to list a document 
used during the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed notices and minutes of the Commission meetings held on 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 The complainant also alleges that the notice for the Commission's July 12 meeting lacked sufficient detail and 
that she personally observed a quorum of the Commission in a conference room on July 13 reviewing files for an 
upcoming meeting. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the alleged violation, or within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Because the allegation regarding notice could have been discovered 
by the time the meeting occurred and because the complainant personally observed the alleged deliberation, a 
complaint citing these allegations should have been filed by August 11 and August 12, respectively. 
Accordingly, we find these allegations untimely and decline to review them. 
3 The complaint also alleges certain procedural issues, such as voting by alternate members, which fall outside of 
the Open Meeting Law's purview. We therefore decline to review them. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
July 19; July 26; July 28; August 2; August 9; and August 16. We reviewed portions of the 
video-recordings of the Commission's July 19; July 26; August 16; and August 29 meetings.4 
Finally, we spoke by telephone with the following Commissioners: Abby Camp; 
Diane Coombs; Kristine Glazer; John McLaughlin; and Raymond Pohl; as well as Associate 
members Matthew Kuhnert and Val Oliver. We also spoke individually by telephone with 
Andrew Vorce, Director of Planning; Leslie Snell, Deputy Director of Planning; and John 
Hedden, the Commission's Compliance Coordinator. All of these conversations occurred in 
early February 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-member public body, thus 
three members constitute a quorum. The Commission also consists of three alternate 
members with no voting authority, except under limited circumstances. The Commission is 
staffed by the Town's Department of Land Use Services (referred to as "PLUS"). During the 
summer of 2016, PLUS transferred a staff member assigned to the Commission to another 
department.5 Over a period of several weeks, the Commission discussed obtaining new staff 
support, including whether PLUS should retain oversight of the Commission, or whether the 
Commission should request that the Board of Selectmen remove it from PLUS oversight. 
The Commission first raised the topic just after it had adjourned its July 19 meeting, 
although none of the Commissioners recall any details about the discussion. Mr. Fledden, a 
PLUS staff member assigned to assist the Commission, was present and recalls that the 
discussion lasted approximately 10 minutes. After the other Commissioners had left, Mr. 
Hedden told Chair Glazer that the discussion probably should not have occurred. 
The Commission held a similar discussion following the adjournment of its July 26 
meeting, although the Commissioners do not recall any details about that discussion, either. 
Before the meeting had formally adjourned, Ms. Coombs stated that she had one more topic to 
discuss with the Commission. Mr. Pohl asked whether the Commission's audio recording 
should be shut off, to which Chair Glazer agreed, stating, "Yes, it's not on the agenda." The 
Commission adjourned the meeting and shut off the recording. After the recording was 
turned off, the Commission discussed its lack of staff support, PLUS oversight of the 
Commission, and whether to send a letter to the Board of Selectmen regarding the same. Mr. 
Hedden was present for the discussion and recalls that he "may have" advised the 
Commission that the discussion should cease. The Commission continued the discussion, 
however, which lasted approximately 10-20 minutes, although one Commissioner recalls 
dispersing after Mr. Hedden's warning. Neither the July 19 nor July 26 minutes include a 
summary of those discussions.6 
4 Available at http://www.nantucket-ma.gov/363/Video-On-Demand. 
5 The Commission characterized this period of time as difficult in accomplishing all of its tasks. 
6 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes include a summary of the 
discussions on each topic, containing enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Subsequently, Mr. Pohl had a conversation with Ms. Snell, Deputy Director of 
Planning, who informed him that a letter to the Board of Selectmen should not be drafted 
following such a private discussion. Two days later, Mr. Pohl brought the issue into the light 
by noting at the end of the Commission's July 28 meeting that it is important that, during its 
August 2 meeting, the Commission discuss "the idea of staffing of HDC being taken out of 
PLUS," which would require a letter to the Board of Selectmen. 
The topic was listed on the August 2 meeting notice as, "Discussion of Request to 
Board of Selectmen re PLUS Oversight and Consideration for Removal of HDC from PLUS." 
Just before this meeting convened, Ms. Coombs commented on the demolition of a property 
located near her home, which was a potential enforcement matter for the Commission. 
Members of the audience heard Ms. Coombs' statement. Chair Glazer stopped any further 
discussion by formally convening the meeting and commencing a discussion about the 
staffing issue. Chair Glazer stated that she thought the Commission "had decided that if we 
wanted to move forward, we would let the public know what we were thinking." Following a 
discussion, the Commission voted to draft a letter for the Board of Selectmen "and create a 
timeline of events for further discussion." Although the minutes do not reflect it, Chair 
Glazer offered to draft the letter. 
Following this meeting, Mr. Kuhnert approached Chair Glazer to assist with the letter. 
Chair Glazer shared the draft letter with Ms. Coombs by email on August 5. Ms. Coombs 
replied with additional suggestions. Chair Glazer then emailed the draft letter to Ms. Oliver 
on August 8 for the purpose of printing the letter for Chair Glazer, who did not have a 
functioning printer. None of the other Commissioners viewed or discussed the draft letter 
until the August 9 meeting during which it approved the letter without any substantive 
discussion. This topic was listed on the notice under the heading, "Old Business," as "HDC 
letter to the Board of Selectmen." 
During its August 16 meeting, the Commission discussed several related topics under 
the heading "Old Business," which are at issue in this complaint. Under the posted topic, 
"Review grading and topo at 3 Old Farm Road for future applications for neighboring lots," 
Mr. Pohl expressed concern that the Commission had approved an application at 3 Old Farm 
Road without scrutinizing the topography of the property, noting that this issue "underscores 
the need for HDC to have professional staff review this sort of thing." Immediately following 
this discussion, under the posted topic, "Board of Selectmen letter," Ms. Coombs asked the 
Commissioners to each write letters to the Board of Selectmen asking that the Commission 
"be removed from PLUS" and be provided with its own staff support. Under "Commission 
Comments," Mr. Kuhnert stated that he had compiled job descriptions from other cities for 
staff positions at historic district commissions, which he distributed to the Commission. This 
document is not listed in the minutes. 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a); OML 2012-106. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members 
of the public body. Id 
The law further requires a public body to must post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.7 We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. 
I. The Commission Improperly Deliberated following Adioumment of its July 19 
and July 26 Meetings. 
The complaint alleges that the Commission discussed staffing issues following 
adjournment of its July 19 and July 26 meetings. The Commissioners do not recall any 
specific details of the discussions or the exact meeting dates, however the Commission 
acknowledged that some discussion had occurred on this topic. We find sufficient evidence to 
conclude that discussions had occurred immediately after the July 19 and July 26 meetings. 
See OML 2016-169; OML 2014-54; OML 2013-158. While both instances of improper 
deliberation are serious, the Commission's actions on July 26 raise particular concern. The 
Commission adjourned the meeting and turned off the recording before proceeding with the 
discussion due to a concern that any additional discussion was not listed as a topic on the 
notice. Mr. Hedden informed the Commission that the discussion should cease. The 
Commission disregarded his warning and continued its discussion for at least another 10 
minutes. Although the Commission's actions were improper, we decline to find an intentional 
violation because they appear to result from a serious misunderstanding of the law's 
requirements, rather than a deliberate attempt to hide its discussions from the public. See 
OML 2017-40; OML 2016-169. Furthermore, the Commission did not leave the meeting 
room or restrict public access to the room, although no one from the audience was actually 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
present for the end of the meeting. Additionally, the Commission took some remedial action 
on its own initiative by disclosing the issue to the public during subsequent meetings. 
Accordingly, we remind the Commission that a public body may not deliberate outside of 
noticed meetings, whether a topic is listed on the notice or not. Neither the July 19 nor July 
26 meeting minutes reference these discussions, however. We therefore order the 
Commission to revise its minutes accordingly. 
We find no evidence, however, that the Commission otherwise deliberated outside of a 
meeting. The emails between Mr. Hedden and the Commissioners sent on July 21 and July 
22 contained scheduling information which is explicitly exempt from the definition of 
deliberation under the law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2017-28. In addition, the August 5 
email exchange between Chair Glazer and Ms, Coombs was between a subquorum of the 
Commission which did not otherwise reach a quorum and therefore did not constitute 
deliberation. See OML 2015-77. Likewise, Chair Glazer's subsequent email to Ms. Oliver, 
an associate member, was administrative in nature and also did not constitute a deliberation. 
Accordingly, these communications did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
II. Ms. Coombs Violated the Open Meeting Law by Commencing Deliberation 
Prior to the Start of the August 2 Meeting, However Any Resulting Error was 
Harmless. 
The complaint alleges that Ms. Coombs' statement to the Commission just before the 
August 2 meeting commenced was inappropriate as the meeting had not yet started. We 
agree. Because Ms. Coombs shared her opinion to the rest of the Commission about a 
potential enforcement matter outside of a meeting, we find that Ms, Coombs violated the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-104 (even the expression of an opinion of one public 
body member on matters within a public body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds). That being said, everyone was 
seated, including audience members, in preparation for the start of the meeting. People in the 
audience heard Ms. Coombs' statement. Chair Glazer promptly stopped any discussion on the 
topic by convening the meeting. Accordingly, any resulting error was harmless. We order 
the Commission to revise its August 2 meeting minutes to reflect Ms. Coombs' statement. 
III. The Commission Failed to Include Sufficient Detail on its August 9 and 
August 16 Meeting Notices. 
The complaint alleges that the topic concerning the letter to the Board of Selectmen 
listed on the Commission's meeting notices lacked sufficient detail. The topic was listed for 
the first time on the August 2 meeting notice, described as "Discussion of Request to Board of 
Selectmen re PLUS Oversight and Consideration for Removal of HDC from PLUS." Apart 
from the use of acronyms, which our office discourages, see OML 2015-154, the topic 
sufficiently described the anticipated discussion. This same topic was insufficiently detailed, 
however, on the notices for the subsequent meetings held on August 9 and August 16. Those 
notices listed the topic as "HDC letter to the Board of Selectmen" and "Board of Selectmen 
letter." Without an understanding of the prior discussions, the public could not understand the 
5 
===PAGE 6===
nature of the anticipated discussions. We therefore find those two topics were insufficient and 
violated the Open Meeting Law. We find no violation, however, with respect to the other 
August 16 topic alleged to be insufficiently detailed, "Review grading and topo at 3 Old Farm 
Road for future applications for neighboring lots," as this description sufficiently reflected the 
discussion. 
IV. The Commission's August 16 Meeting Minutes Failed to List a Document 
Used at the Meeting. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Commission's August 16 meeting minutes fail 
to list a document used by the Commission during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including.. .a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
Here, Mr. Kuehnert provided the Commission with a list of job descriptions that he had 
compiled from his own research, which the Commission reviewed during the meeting. This 
document was not listed in the original minutes. 
Where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are 
discussed by the members of a public body during a meeting, it has been "used" for purposes 
of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. By reviewing and briefly 
discussing the document at the meeting, the document was "used" by the Commission and 
should have been listed in the minutes. In response to this complaint, the Commission 
amended its minutes to include this document on its list. We commend the Commission for 
taking such remedial efforts. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating before and after meetings; by failing to include sufficient detail in its 
notices; and by failing to list in its minutes a document used during a meeting. With respect 
to the deliberation prior to the August 2 meeting, we find any resulting error to be harmless. 
We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the law. Additionally, we order the Commission to revise its July 19; July 26; and August 2 
meeting minutes in accordance with the guidance above. Finally, we order the Commission 
members to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Videos #1-7 and 
certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the attached form, that it has 
complied with this order.8 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
8 The videos may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Linda Williams 
Nantucket Historic District Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
7 
===PAGE 8===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2017-85 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Videos #1-7 on 
(date) 
Commission Member Signature Date 
8 