===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 9, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 5 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Paul Ciaburri 
Chair, Rochester Select Board 
1 Constitution Way 
Rochester, MA 02770 
 
pciaburri@townofrochester.com  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Ciaburri: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bendrix Bailey on December 12, 2023, alleging 
that the Rochester Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 10, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 24.2  The complaint alleges that the 
Board convened in executive session on October 2: (1) without proper notice; (2) in violation of 
the complainant’s request that the meeting be conducted in open session; and (3) not in 
conformance with the stated purpose under G.L. c. 30A, §21(3). 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response and the request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the 
Board’s October 2 meeting, as well as the notice and minutes of the August 15 meeting of the 
Rochester Conservation Commission.  We reviewed email communications, including emails 
between representatives of the Town of Rochester, Town Counsel and the complainant.  Finally, 
we viewed a video recording of the open session of the Board’s October 2 meeting. 
 
 
1 The complaint took the form of a letter directed to the chair of the Board.  Mr. Bailey is reminded that 
complainants must use the complaint form that is found at https://www.mass.gov/doc/open-mee ting-law-complaint-
form-0/download  
2 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  At a ll relevant times, the complainant was a member of the 
Rochester Conservation Commission (“the Commission”).  At its August 15 meeting, the 
Commission discussed a Buffer Zone Restoration Plan relative to 89 Box Turtle Drive.  On 
August 11, Rochester Environmental Planner / Conservation Agent Merilee Kelly invited Town 
Counsel, Attorney Elizabeth Lydon, to the Commission’s August 15 meeting.  At issue was the 
complainant’s position that the Commission should not review the plan until a No Trespass order 
directed at the complainant was lifted.  Citing Commonwealth v. John G. Grant & Sons Co., 403 
Mass. 151 (1988), Attorney Lydon advised the Town that “[r]equiring the property owners to 
grant permission to Mr. Bailey to visit the property in order for the full Commission to render a 
decision is illegal and unnecessary.”   
 
Commission Chai
 r Christopher Gerrier emailed the entire Commission on August 14, 
noting that 89 Box Turtle Drive would be discussed at the August 15 meeting and that “[t]he no 
trespass has been lifted for Merilee but not for Ben.”  In a response that he asked to be forwarded 
to the entire Commission and to Attorney Lydon, Mr. Bailey provided his own analysis of John 
G. Grant (the case cited by Town Counsel), and concluded: “This is yet another instance of the 
Town’s attorney engaging in biased behavior where I am concerned. I will request the 
commission to seek a second opinion through other counsel.”  The next morning, Mr. Bailey 
requested that the Town Administrator seek a second legal opinion on the issue addressed by 
Attorney Lydon.  The complainant alleged that Attorney Lydon had a conflict of interest, and 
that the property owner and Commission will both be harmed as a result.  He concluded: “Liz 
should do her research and make clear to the landowner the consequences of the actions they are 
taking.”  After another attorney from Attorney Lydon’s firm supported her legal position, the 
complainant stated in an email of August 15, “I welcome the opportunity to review all of the 
above events and interactions with Liz before the Select Board. Press your accusations if you feel 
prepared to do so.”   
 
Over
 the coming days, the complainant and Town Counsel continued to debate their 
positions over email.  On September 24, the complainant sent an email to members of the Board 
and others.  Under the subject line “Continuing issues with Town Counsel,” Mr. Bailey noted 
that he “remain[ed] frustrated by the legal support” from Town Counsel and maintained that in 
his 50 years of experience in business, he has come to expect a higher level of service from 
attorneys.  He concluded that email: “I would like to be put on the agenda for the next Select 
Board meeting to discuss Legal Counsel.”  Upon being advised that the Board had scheduled an 
executive session “to discuss the matter,” Mr. Bailey maintained that he had “not requested a 
meeting in which to lodge complaints against Town Counsel” but was asking for “a meeting to 
discuss some of the challenges related to working with Town Counsel” and for “better 
communication, and consistent, not contradictory advice.”  The next day, he revised his request 
for the meeting “to say that I am questioning the professional competence of the contradictory 
advice and failure to respond. If I do so you cannot go into executive session.”  
 
 The notice for its  October 2 meeting noted that the Board would meet in executive 
session “pursuant to Open Meeting Law (Chapter 30A Section 21(a)(1)) – To discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.  To discuss a complaint by Ben 
Bailey against Town Counsel.”  During the open session of its October 2 meeting, the Board 
voted to enter into executive session pursuant to c. 30A, §21(a)(1) to discuss the complaint “by 
Ben Bailey against Town Counsel.”
3  According to the complainant, discussion during the 
executive session “degenerated into further criticism and complaints” against him.  The 
complainant further alleges that the Board and Town Counsel also discussed the 89 Box Turtle 
Drive matter in executive session, although it was not listed in the notice of the executive 
session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A notice of meeting must include “a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list 
of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2021-84; OML 2014-94.4 
 
I. Notice of the October 2 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
Prior to convening in executive session, a public body must provide a precise statement 
of the
 reason under the Open Meeting Law for doing so because that is the only notification 
given to the public that the public body would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.  Dist. Att’y for N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567, 918 N.E.2d 796, 801 (2009).  One permissible 
reason for a public body to convene in executive session is to “discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health ... of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal 
of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).   
 
3 Minutes of the open session of the October 2 meeting reference a vote to enter executive session pursuant to G.L. 
c. 30A, §21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation.  However, a 
video recording of the October 2 meeting shows that the Board voted to convene in executive session pursuant to 
G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”) to discuss “the complaint of Ben Bailey against Town Counsel.”  A vote to 
convene under Purpose 1 is reflected in the executive session minutes but the vote to convene in executive session 
should be reflected in the open session minutes as that is when the vote must take place.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Mr. Bailey alleges that notice of the Board’s October 2 meeting was deficient.  At the 
root of this allegation is his complaint that the Board discussed Commission matters, including 
89 Box Turtle Drive, without listing those subjects within the notice of the executive session.  
Mr. Bailey also argues that notice was deficient because the subject of the executive session 
purports to be his complaint about Town Counsel, whereas he claims that he never brought a 
“complaint” against Town Counsel and that the subject of the executive session ended up being 
the complainant himself. 
 
That Commission matters, including the 89 Box Turtle Drive Plan, were discussed during 
the executive session does not render the notice deficient.  The Open Meeting Law requires that 
the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed 
decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74.  A public body need 
not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements.  See  
OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.  Here, discussion of Commission matters grew 
out of the subject of the Board’s executive session, to wit, the complaint that Town Counsel was 
providing questionable, or at least inconsistent, legal advice to the Commission.  Likewise, 
where the subject of the executive session was allegedly poor communication between Town 
Counsel and the Commission, the complainant could reasonably expect that his own role as a 
member of the Commission might be discussed.  Therefore, we find the notice of the October 2 
executive session sufficiently specific. 
 
II. The Board was not required to discuss the complaint about Town Counsel in open 
session. 
 
When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the 
individual who is the subject of discussion has the right to “be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. . . .”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  At 
the request of the individual who is the subject of the complaint, the discussion must be held in 
open session.  If the discussion is held in executive session, the individual enjoys certain rights, 
as set forth in the Open Meeting Law.  Id. 
 
The complainant alleges that the stated purpose of the executive session (a discussion of 
Town Counsel) was “fraudulent” and that in reality the executive session was convened to 
criticize him.  Emails which the complainant sent to the Town Administrator, and to Town 
Counsel, bely this interpretation of events leading up to the meeting of October 2.  Indeed, the 
complainant himself requested that he “be put on the agenda for the next Select Board meeting to 
discuss Legal Counsel.”  At no time was a complaint raised against Mr. Bailey.  As noted above, 
to the extent that his conduct was discussed in executive session, it was in relation to his 
complaint about Town Counsel.  Finally, we note that under Purpose 1, the individual who is the 
subject of the complaint that will be discussed is the person who has a right to request that the 
discussion be held in open session, rather than executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  The 
complainant is not the subject of the complaint under such circumstances.  See, e.g., OML 2018-
116; OML 2013-52 (As complainant was not subject of complaint, Board did not violate Open 
Meeting Law by not providing her individual notice of meetings.)  Therefore, Mr. Bailey did not 
have the right to insist on an open session discussion of his complaint about Town Counsel. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
III. The October 2 executive session was conducted in conformance with the stated 
purpose. 
 
According to minutes of the October 2 open session, the Board convened in executive 
ses
sion under Purpose 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation.  
However, a video recording of the October 2 open session shows that the Board voted to enter 
executive session under Purpose 1, as set forth in the notice.  Although not accurately captured in 
the Open Meeting minutes, the Board clearly entered executive session for a proper purpose, and 
we find no violation on this point.  See, e.g., OML 2023-39 (no violation where Belmont School 
Committee incorrectly cited Purpose 3 instead of Purpose 1 for entering executive session to 
discuss Open Meeting Law complaint; chair announced prior to convening in executive session 
that Committee would discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint).   
 
The complainant also argues that even if the subject of the Board’s discussion was Town 
Counse
l, the lack of a formal complaint precluded the Board from invoking Purpose 1.  
“Complaint” is not defined in the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, §18.  However, a 
complaint need not satisfy artificial formalities to fall within Purpose 1.  See, e.g., OML 2021-
144 (anonymous complaint against member of Board of Health subject of executive session); 
OML 2013-52 (public body took email to be complaint).  The relevant inquiry is not whether a 
communication constitutes a formal complaint, but rather whether the public body thought that it 
was a complaint and chose to use its discretion to discuss it in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 1.  See OML 2012-14.  Here, the Board reasonably interpreted the complainant’s emails 
to be a complaint about Town Counsel and decided to discuss the complaint in executive session, 
as it was allowed to do.  Therefore, we find no violation in the Board’s decision to discuss the 
complaint in executive session. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We do, however, recommend that the Board amend the minutes of its 
October 2 meeting to accurately reflect the stated purpose for the executive session, as discussed 
above. 
  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Ben Bailey (via email: ) 
Town Administrator (via email: gcannon@townofrochester.com)  
 Town Clerk (via email: mbarrows@townofrochester.com) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
