===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 22, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 86 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bruce Bickerstaff  
President, Veterans and Friends of Gourdin Memorial Park   
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Bickerstaff: 
 
This office received a complaint on March 30, 2021, filed by Randall Tatum alleging that 
the Veterans and Friends of Gourdin Memorial Park (“VFGMP”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with VFGMP on or about 
February 22, 2021. The VFGMP has not responded to the complaint.     
 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity against which the complaint is filed is a “public body” subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. The Open Meeting Law defines “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple-member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within . . . any county, district, city, region or 
town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, to be a public body for the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, the entity must be (i) “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; (ii) a body empowered to act collectively; and (iii) charged to serve a public purpose. See, 
e.g., OML 2010-1; OML 2020-52. When an entity is not clearly placed within government by 
law, it may still be “within” government if the government played a significant role in creating or 
structuring the group, the government has control over the group, and the group primarily 
performs an essentially government function. See OML 2010-1. 
 
 
1 It appears that at the time of the events complained of, Mr. Tatum held a leadership position within the VFGMP.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Based on our review of publicly available information and the information provided to us 
by Mr. Tatum, we find that the VFGMP is not a public body subject to the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. The VFGMP is a registered nonprofit corporation—a factor that weighs 
against a finding that it is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law—and there is no 
evidence that the government played a role in creating the VFGMP. Cf. OML 2010-1 (finding 
that the government played a significant role in creating and controlling the nonprofit where the 
government required its existence in a licensing agreement, a majority of the members of the 
board of the nonprofit were appointed by, and removable without cause by, government officials, 
and provisions of the nonprofit’s by-laws left little doubt that it was functionally under the 
control of Town government).   
 
Additionally, there is no evidence that the government has control over the VFGMP. We 
understand that the VFGMP receives funds from the City of Boston; however, the receipt of 
public funds alone is an insufficient basis upon which to find that the VFGMP is subject to the 
Open Meeting Law’s requirements. See OML 2015-23. Likewise, we understand that the 
VFGMP works with, or requires the approval of, the Boston Art Commission, which itself may 
be a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and that the development of the park is under 
the control of the Boston Department of Parks and Recreation, but the fact that the City has 
chosen to partner with the VFGMP regarding certain aspects of the park’s development does not 
render the VFGMP a public body for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-190. 
Based on the above, we find that the VFGMP is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-189; 2015-
23; OML 2016-3. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the VFGMP. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Randall Tatum (via e-mail:  
Veterans and Friends of Gourdin Memorial Park (via e-mail: 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
