===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
September 12, 2012 
OML 2012 — 91 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Dawn Padovani, dated February 22, 2012, 
alleging that the Carver Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Padovani originally filed three complaints with the Board, on or about 
December 12, 2011; December 15, 2011; and December 29, 2011. The Board responded to all 
three complaints by letter dated February 8, 2012, following three extensions granted by our 
office.' In her complaint, Ms. Padovani alleges that the Board failed to 1) respond to her request 
for executive session meeting minutes within 10 days; 2) create minutes for four executive 
session meetings in a timely manner; 3) automatically release minutes once the purpose for their 
confidentiality expired; 4) review the minutes at reasonable intervals to determine whether 
continued non-disclosure was warranted; and 5) produce complete and sufficiently detailed 
minutes.2  
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the December 12, 2011; December 15, 2011; 
and December 29, 2011 complaints; the Board's February 8, 2012 response; and Ms. Padovani's 
February 22, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices and the open 
and executive session minutes of the Board meetings held on the following dates: December 20, 
2010; February 25, 2011; March 8, 2011; and March 29, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to its executive session minutes. Specifically, the Board failed to 1) approve executive 
session minutes in a timely manner; 2) release executive session minutes once the purpose for 
their confidentiality expired; 3) review executive session minutes at regular intervals to gauge 
1  The Board requested the initial extension due to reduced holiday schedules; it requested the subsequent extensions 
in order to provide a single consolidated response to all three complaints. 
2  The complainant also alleges that the Board failed to provide certain documents that the Board used during its 
executive session meetings. It is unclear whether the complainant specifically requested these documents from the 
Board. We remind the Board of its obligation to provide, upon request, documents used during its meetings, except 
to the extent they may be withheld pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
===PAGE 2===
their eligibility for release; 4) provide a sufficiently detailed summary of the discussions that 
occurred during executive session meetings; and 5) include a list of documents and exhibits used 
at meetings in corresponding minutes. Although not raised in the complaint, upon reviewing the 
Board's notices and meeting minutes, we also discovered that the Board failed to state its 
purpose for entering executive session with sufficient specificity in its posted meeting notices 
and open session minutes. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The Board 
met in executive session on four occasions to discuss and engage in contract negotiations with 
the Town Administrator: December 20, 2010; February 25, 2011; March 8, 2011; and March 29, 
2011. The notices posted in advance of the first three meetings listed "Executive Session" as the 
final agenda item. The notice posted in advance of the fourth meeting listed "Executive Session 
— Conduct bargaining with non-union personnel," as the final agenda item. During the March 
29, 2011 executive session, the Board voted to offer certain final contract terms to the Town 
Administrator. While the meeting remained in session, the Town Administrator reviewed the 
terms in a separate room. He then entered the executive session and accepted the Board's offer, 
and the parties executed the final contract. 
On November 22, 2011, Ms. Padovani submitted a request to the Board for "executive 
session minutes for the contract negotiations for the Town Administrator." She submitted the 
request in an envelope handed to the Chairman during an open session meeting. However, the 
Chairman did not open the envelope immediately, and was unaware that it contained a request 
for executive session minutes. Upon discovering the request contained in the envelope, the 
Chairman forwarded the request to the Town Administrator. Ms. Padovani filed a complaint 
with the Board on or about December 12, 2011, alleging that the Board failed to provide her with 
the requested executive session meeting minutes within 10 days, as required by the Open 
Meeting Law. The Board responded to Ms. Padovani on December 14, 2011, writing that 
"release of the minutes would be placed on the Board's agenda for its next meeting," scheduled 
for December 27, 2011. At this meeting, the Board approved the draft executive session minutes 
as the final minutes for the December 20, 2010; February 25, 2011; March 8, 2011; and March 
29, 2011 meetings. The Board then voted to release the executive session minutes sought by Ms. 
Padovani. 
After receiving the Board's December 14, 2011 response, Ms. Padovani filed a 
subsequent complaint on or about December 15, 2011. In that complaint, she alleged that the 
Board improperly failed to release the executive session minutes once the Town Administrator's 
contract was approved and the need for confidentiality expired. After receiving the four sets of 
executive session minutes responsive to her request, Ms. Padovani filed a third complaint with 
the Board on or about December 29, 2011. She reiterated the concerns voiced in her initial 
complaints and provided a list of alleged Open Meeting Law violations contained in the recently 
released executive session minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
Ms. Padovani alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond 
to her request for executive session minutes within 10 days. She also alleges that the Board 
2 
===PAGE 3===
failed to issue sufficiently detailed executive session minutes in a timely manner. In its response 
to the complaints, the Board replies to Ms. Padovani's allegations and argues that her complaint 
is invalid because it was not timely filed with the Board. We will address these allegations in 
turn. 
I. The Complainant Filed her Open Meeting Law Complaint in a Timely Manner.  
The Open Meeting Law states that complaints must be filed with the chair of the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). The Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law regulations state that "if the alleged violation of [the Open Meeting Law] 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then [the complaint must be filed] 
within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered." 940 CMR 29.05(3). Ms. 
Padovani filed her complaint regarding the content and issuance of the Board's executive session 
minutes on December 29, 2011, two days after the minutes were released. She could not 
reasonably have discovered potential violations that occurred during the executive session 
without access to the corresponding minutes. Because the 30-day filing period began to run 
when she received the minutes on December 27, 2011, Ms. Padovani's complaint is timely. 
II. The Board Responded Properly to Ms. Padovani's Request for Executive Session Minutes  
Upon Discovering It.  
A public body is obligated to respond to a request for executive session minutes within 
10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). Ms. Padovani submitted her request on November 22, 2011, 
and the Board responded 22 days later, on December 14, 2011. Although the Board failed to 
respond within 10 days, it appears this violation was the result of confusion surrounding the 
transmission of Ms. Padovani's request, rather than an intent to withhold information from the 
complainant. Ms. Padovani did not verbally indicate to the Chair what the envelope she 
presented to him on November 22, 2011 contained, thus the Chair had no way of knowing it 
contained an item requiring immediate action. It appears that the Board acted quickly to provide 
a reply once they discovered her request for executive session minutes, therefore we find that any 
violation was de minimis. Although we find that the Board responded properly to Ms. 
Padovani's request upon discovering it, we remind the Board that public bodies have an 
obligation to promptly review all correspondence, which may include time-sensitive requests. 
Furthermore, while the Open Meeting Law requires a body to respond to a request for 
executive session minutes within 10 days, it also states that if executive session minutes have not 
been reviewed as of the date of the request to determine whether continued non-disclosure is 
warranted, the public body must perform such a review at its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). The public body must then release all minutes, 
or portions thereof, where the original purpose for confidentiality has expired. Id. The public 
body may still redact or withhold minutes subject to the exemptions to the Public Records Law 
contained within clause twenty-sixth of G.L. c. 4, § 7, or where discussions may be protected by 
the attorney/client privilege. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). On the date of Ms. Padovani's request, the 
responsive executive session minutes had not been reviewed by the Board to determine whether 
continued non-disclosure was warranted. Therefore, the Board acted properly by reviewing the 
minutes at its next meeting and communicating its decision to the complainant. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
III. The Board Failed to Approve and Release Executive Session Minutes in a Timely Manner.  
All open and executive session minutes must be created and approved by the public body 
in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law does not provide a definition 
of "timely manner," but we recommend that minutes be approved at the next meeting, whenever 
possible. While Ms. Padovani alleges that the Board failed to create executive session minutes 
in a timely manner, we do not find this to be the case. However, the Board waited between nine 
and twelve months to approve the minutes for the executive sessions held on December 20, 
2010; February 25, 2011; March 8, 2011; and March 29, 2011. Even if the Board believed that 
the executive session purpose warranted continued non-disclosure, the Board was obligated to 
approve final minutes in a timely manner. We find that the Board failed to do so. 
Furthermore, we note that executive session minutes may be withheld from the public "as 
long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(f); see OML 2011-18.3  There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter 
executive, or closed, session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The Board entered executive session on 
December 20, 2010; February 25, 2011; March 8, 2011; and March 29, 2011 under Purpose 2, 
"No conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). This purpose concluded at the March 29, 2011 meeting, when the Town 
Administrator's contract was executed. See OML 2012-11. The Board should therefore have 
reviewed the executive session minutes at a subsequent meeting and released all four sets of 
minutes describing the Town Administrator contract negotiations, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records law applied. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 
2012-11. Instead, the Board did not release these minutes until its December 27, 2011 meeting. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to release the 
executive session minutes once the purpose for confidentiality expired. 
IV. The Board Failed to Maintain Sufficient Minutes of its Executive Session Meetings.  
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). In her complaint, Ms. Padovani asserts that the 
minutes are substantively lacking and "do not meet the minimum standards of law." 
A. The Board Failed to Provide Sufficient Detail in its Executive Session Minutes. 
When reviewing meeting minutes, our office considers whether the minutes contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2011-55. This 
requirement is even more important during executive session because the public is unable to 
witness the deliberations of the public body. 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/agolopenmeeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
The Board's minutes for the executive sessions held on December 20, 2010; February 25, 
2011; March 8, 2011; and March 29, 2011 do not meet this standard. In numerous places, the 
minutes reference dialogue without giving further detail. For example, the December 20, 2011 
executive session minutes state, "A lengthy discussion followed on each of the nine points[,] and 
all of the questions raised by the three selectmen were answered to their satisfaction." The 
minutes fail to provide enough information to allow a member of the public who was not present 
to have a clear understanding of what occurred at the meeting. We therefore find that the Board 
did not comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirement that it provide a sufficiently detailed 
summary of the discussion that occurred during these executive sessions. 
B. The Board Failed to List Documents Used at its Executive Session Meetings.  
Ms. Padovani alleges that the Board's executive session minutes "do not include copies" 
of documents used during the sessions. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the 
documents and exhibits used at a meeting be physically attached to or included in the 
corresponding minutes. The Open Meeting Law does require that the minutes of a public body's 
meetings contain "a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a); see OML 2012-42. In multiple instances, the Board's executive session minutes reference 
the use of documents or exhibits that are not listed in the minutes. For example, the minutes 
state that at the December 20, 2010 meeting, "the Town Administrator was shown the salary 
structure for the five year contract . . ." In its response to Ms. Padovani's complaint, the Board 
acknowledges its noncompliance with this requirement and states that "[i]n the future, the Board 
will prepare a list of documents used at meetings, and the minutes will be updated to include 
such information." Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by not 
including a list of documents used at meetings in its minutes, we are satisfied that the Board is 
now aware of its obligations in this regard and has committed to compliance with this section of 
the Law going forward. 
C. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Not Including Start and 
Adjournment Times in its Executive Session Meeting Minutes.  
Ms. Padovani also alleges that the Board failed to include start and adjournment times in 
its executive session minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes include "the date, 
time and place" of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Public bodies are required to include the 
start times of open session meetings in their minutes. Public bodies are not required to provide 
adjournment times, nor are they required to provide start and end times for individual discussion 
topics, including executive sessions. $ee OML 2012-23. The Board therefore complied with the 
Open Meeting Law by including start times in three of the four open session meeting minutes we 
reviewed: December 20, 2010; February 25, 2011; and March 29, 2011. The minutes from the 
March 8, 2011 Board meeting did not list a start time, thus we remind the Board of the need to 
comply with this requirement when creating open session minutes in the future. 
V. The Board Failed to State the Purpose for its Executive Session Meetings with Sufficient 
Detail. 
We previously reviewed the Board's March 29, 2011 executive session meeting in 
response to a complaint filed with our office. In determination letter OML 2011-56, we found 
that the notice posted in advance of that meeting and the statement made by the Chair during the 
5 
===PAGE 6===
open session meeting failed to provide sufficient detail regarding the Board's purpose for 
entering executive session.4  Upon reviewing Ms. Padovani's complaint, we discovered similar 
deficiencies in connection with the December 20, 2010; February 25, 2011; and March 8, 2011 
executive session meetings. Because the Board did not have the benefit of the guidance in our 
decision in OML 2011-56 at the time of these meetings, we do not find an intentional violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. However, we direct the Board to review OML 2011-56, to ensure 
future compliance with Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that 
a determination by our office of similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Board to attend a training on 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, to be conducted by an attorney or organization 
familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and approved by this office or, in the 
alternative, to view the training video available at the Attorney General's website. All members 
must certify to our office within sixty (60) days after receiving this determination that all 
members have either attended a live training or reviewed the online training video. Finally, we 
order the Board to amend its executive session minutes for December 20, 2010; February 25, 
2011; March 8, 2011; and March 29, 2011 to include the missing detail addressed in this letter. 
This should occur within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with out' office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Ms. Dawn Padovani 
Carver Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4  We also found that the Board improperly voted to approve the Town Administrator's contract while still in 
executive session. OML 2011-56. 
6 