===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
November 5, 2012 
OML 2012-107 
Tim D. Norris 
Collins, Loughran & Peloquin, P.C. 
320 Norwood Park South 
Norwood, MA 02062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Norris: 
This office received a complaint from Virginia Wilder, dated January 3, 2012, alleging 
that the Templeton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Board's October 11, 2011 meeting, "the 
chairperson of The Board of Selectmen summoned the rest of the Selectmen to the Library for 
what she explained to the audience to be another executive session for The Board of Selectmen 
(not previously posted). ...It was a violation of the Open Meeting Law since it was unposted and 
not an emergency situation." The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the law because 
it held a meeting to terminate an employee "when her attorney could not attend." The complaint 
was filed with the Board on October 17, 2011.1  The Board responded through counsel by letter 
on October 28, 2011. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into an 
executive session October 11, 2011 and by scheduling a meeting to terminate an employee on a 
date her attorney was unable to attend. However, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to following the required procedures for entering executive session at its 
October 11, 2011 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed October 17, 2011 
complaint; the Board's October 28, 2011 response; and the January 3, 2012 complaint. We 
reviewed a video recording of the Board's September 26, 2011 meeting, provided by the 
complainant. We reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board's 
Ms. Wilder filed her complaints on two separate forms and submitted them to the Board on October 17, 2011. 
Because the complaints involve the same Board meeting, we are treating them as one complaint. 
===PAGE 2===
October 11, 2011 meeting. We reviewed the case summary and docket sheet for the Worcester 
Superior Court civil action of Skelton v. Templeton Board of Selectmen,  Docket # WOCV2011- 
02018, printed on October 18, 2011, and provided by the Board. We also reviewed a transcript 
of the Board's October 11, 2011 meeting, provided by the complainant, created and certified by 
Kristen M. Edwards, Court Reporter with ACR, Inc., which we credit as accurate. Finally, we 
reviewed a letter from the complainant addressed to our office, dated February 13, 2012, which 
included a transcript of the October 11, 2011 motion hearing in Worcester Superior Court for 
Skelton v. Templeton Board of Selectmen. 
FACTS 
On September 26, 2011, the Board met in open session to consider sending a letter to 
Town employee Carol Skelton regarding possible dismissal. After some discussion, the Board 
agreed to send a letter to Ms. Skelton that it would consider her dismissal at a subsequent 
meeting. Board Chair Julie Farrell stated that the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting was 
October 11, 2011. Ms. Skelton's lawyer, who was present at the meeting, stated that he could 
not appear the evening of October 11, 2011 due to a scheduling conflict, and requested that they 
try to find a mutually agreeable date. Chair Farrell responded that they would look at the 
calendar to try to find an agreeable date. Ms. Skelton's attorney then suggested that he would 
reach out to the Town's Labor Counsel to find an agreeable date. 
On October 5, 2011, the Board posted notice for its October 11, 2011 meeting. That 
notice included one topic: "Anticipated executive session in accordance with the provisions of 
G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21 (a)(1), 'to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against' a public employee. (Please note that this anticipated executive session may 
instead be conducted in public if so requested by the subject employee.)" The Board informed 
Ms. Skelton of the meeting by the letter approved at its September 26, 2011 meeting. 
On the morning of October 11, 2011, Ms. Skelton's attorney filed a complaint and 
motion for preliminary injunction Worcester Superior Court against the Board to prevent it from 
meeting that evening to consider dismissing Ms. Skelton, because the Board scheduled the 
meeting for a date for which her attorney could not attend. The court heard the motion that 
morning and denied the preliminary injunction. 
At the Board's October 11, 2011 meeting, Chair Julie Farrell entertained a motion to 
enter executive session. The Board voted by roll-call to enter executive session, and then moved 
to a different room. The Chair did not state the purpose for the executive session. Our office 
reviewed the minutes from the executive session, but because the minutes have not been publicly 
released, we cannot recount their content in detail here. However, it is clear that the Board met 
with its attorney to discuss the complaint filed by Ms. Skelton in Worcester Superior Court that 
morning and to discuss the motion hearing that followed. The Board did not discuss Ms. 
Skelton's job performance or consider her dismissal in executive session. The executive session 
lasted about 10 minutes. 
Upon returning to open session, Chair Farrell moved to enter executive session to 
"discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against" a public 
employee. Ms. Skelton stated that she would like the meeting to occur in open session, and the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board complied. The Board ultimately voted to dismiss Ms. Skelton. Ms. Skelton's attorney 
was not in attendance. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body, must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. However, topics that arise within 48 hours of the meeting, which the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate would be discussed at the meeting, may be added to the 
agenda and considered by the public body. 
A public body may enter executive— or closed—session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 1, 
which allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed 
in such executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to 
the proposed executive session, and be afforded the right to be present during deliberations that 
involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, and the right to have an 
attorney present for the purpose of advising but not participating in the meeting. Id. Another 
purpose is Purpose 3, which allows a public body to enter into executive session to "discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Before entering executive session, the chair of the public 
body must "state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). 
I. 	 The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Entering Executive Session 
on October 11, 2011, but Failed to Follow the Required Procedures for Entering 
Executive Session.  
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on October 11, 
2011 because it entered executive session for a purpose that was not listed in the meeting notice. 
The complaint argues that the Board essentially held an emergency meeting where no emergency 
existed. The Board entered executive session to discuss litigation that had been filed that 
morning against the Board by Ms. Skelton. Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive 
session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Here, there was pending litigation initiated by Ms. 
Skelton. Therefore, it was appropriate for the Board to enter executive session to meet with 
3 
===PAGE 4===
counsel to discuss strategy with respect to that litigation. The executive session had not been 
listed on the meeting notice because it was not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours 
before the meeting. The litigation was initiated by Ms. Skelton that morning. Because the Board 
had a regularly scheduled meeting, it did not need to declare that an emergency existed in order 
to take up the unanticipated topic. 
Although it was appropriate for the Board to enter executive session, the transcript from 
the October 11, 2011 meeting shows that the Board did not follow the required procedures for 
entering executive session. The law requires that the chair state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). The Chair made no statement of 
purpose prior to entering the executive session. It appears from the Board's executive session 
minutes that the Board entered executive session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, 
which is appropriate under Purpose 3. Id. However, the law states that a public body may enter 
executive session under Purpose 3 only "if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." Id. From the 
transcript, it appears that the Chair did not make such a statement. These requirements are not 
mere technical violations, but reflect important procedures to ensure the integrity of the process. 
II. 	 The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Scheduling a Meeting for a 
Date for which Ms. Skelton's Attorney could not be Present 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the law because it knew that Ms. Skelton's 
attorney could not attend a meeting on October 11, 2011, but went ahead and scheduled a 
meeting for that date anyway. The Board intended to enter executive session under Purpose 1 to 
discuss Ms. Skelton's dismissal during the October 11, 2011 meeting. If a public body enters 
executive session under Purpose 1, the subject of the executive session has the right to have an 
attorney present for the purpose of advising but not participating in the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). Although the Board scheduled an executive session for a date that it knew Ms. 
Skelton's attorney could not attend, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. First, the 
Board never entered executive session at the October 11, 2011 meeting because Ms. Skelton 
requested the session occur in open. Therefore, the protections of G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), were 
not implicated. Second, even if those protections were implicated, the Board did not prevent Ms. 
Skelton from having an attorney present. The Open Meeting Law does not require the Board to 
accommodate the schedule of an employee's attorney when scheduling a Purpose 1 executive 
session. Although the Board did not violate the law, our office strongly encourages public 
bodies to accommodate individuals who are subject to a Purpose 1 executive session to ensure 
that they have the representative of their choice available to advise them. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering executive 
session on October 11, 2011 to discuss strategy with respect to litigation. We find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by scheduling a meeting to consider the dismissal of an 
employee on a date that the employee's attorney could not attend. We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to follow the required procedures for entering 
executive sessions at its October 11, 2011 meeting. We order the Board's immediate and future 
4 
===PAGE 5===
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that similar future violations of 
the Open Meeting Law may be considered intentional violations. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this complaint. With the 
issuance of this detetutination, we now consider this matter closed. 
Sincerely; 
Jonathan SCIarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Virginia Wilder 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 