===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
February 16, 2017 
OML 2017-29 
Joseph Emerson, Esq. 
33 Whitney Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Joaquin Soares on November 21, alleging 
that the Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about September 28, and you responded on behalf of the Committee in a letter dated 
October 21. In his complaint, Mr. Soares alleges that the Committee's June 7 executive 
session minutes, approved on September 13, lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the Committee's June 7 executive session minutes. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On June 7, the Committee convened in executive 
session to review two Open Meeting Law complaints filed by the complainant. The 
subject of the complaints was the sufficiency of several sets of executive session minutes. 
At the start of the executive session, the complainant requested permission to record the 
session. This request is not included in the minutes of the June 7 executive session. 
However, the minutes do summarize the complainant's comments regarding the reasons he 
believes that the executive session minutes identified in his complaints were defective. 
The June 7 minutes also summarize the other Committee members' responses. The 
Committee then voted by roll call to amend the executive session minutes in response to 
All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Committee then voted by roll call to amend the executive session minutes in response to 
the complainant's complaints. A Committee member asked whether this vote also 
approved the amended minutes. As a result, the Committee then voted by roll call to 
approve those amended minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The complainant alleges that the June 7 executive session minutes do not include 
the following: the complainant's request to record the meeting; certain comments made by 
the Committee chair; and the reason why the Committee took two roll call votes to approve 
each set of amended executive session minutes. The complainant also alleges that the 
minutes inaccurately reference his comment that the first element of his complaint is 
satisfied, but not the second element. Instead, the minutes state, "His first complaint is 
'done' but his second is not." When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2013-64.3 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting 
could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-
106. 
We find that the Committee substantially complied with the requirement to provide 
an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of each discussion topic. See OML 2016-
40. Although the minutes do not cover Committee members' every remark, they do offer a 
concise summary of their statements. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes 
must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented). First, although the 
minutes fail to reflect the complainant's request to record the executive session, such a 
statement is not required to be recorded in the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (minutes 
shall include "a summary of the discussions on each subject"). We encourage the 
Committee, however, to include such detail in its minutes as a best practice. Second, we 
find that the minutes reflect comments made by the chair and the reason the Committee 
took two votes to amend and approve the minutes. Finally, the portion of the minutes 
concerning the complainant's comments about elements of his complaints being satisfied, 
while not verbatim, sufficiently summarizes his comments. Accordingly, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law, 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Joaquin Soares 
Stoughton School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 