===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 238 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christine Lindberg 
Ashby Town Administrator 
tadministrator@ashbyma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear 
Ms. Lindberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on November 15, 2022,1 alleging 
that the Ashby Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 21, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board via email on October 6. We understand the complaint to allege 
either that the Board’s meeting minutes are inaccurate because they do not capture all votes 
taken by the Board with respect to the allocation of funds received under the American Rescue 
Plan Act (ARPA), or that the Board deliberated outside of a proper meeting to approve allocation 
of those funds. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficient minutes for its meetings held on August 3 and 31. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
and additional communications from the Complainant. We also reviewed minutes for the 
Board’s August 3 and 31 meetings, as well as a video recording of the Board’s August 31 
meeting.
2 
 
The complaint states that during the Board’s August 31 meeting the Town Administrator3 
stated that all disbursements of ARPA funds had been voted on. The complaint then quotes from 
various Board meeting minutes, notices, and recordings that mention ARPA funds, and 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s August 31 meeting can be found at https://vimeo.com/746366338. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
concludes that those materials only reflect votes totaling $56,409.60 in ARPA funding.4 We 
understand from the Board’s response as well as review of a video recording of the Board’s 
August 31 meeting, that the Town was awarded $962,181 in ARPA funding. We additionally 
understand that the Board has voted at various meetings, including joint meetings with other 
public bodies, to allocate $755,351 of those funds. We further understand that the Town’s 
accountant keeps a spreadsheet that represents the allocation of ARPA funds to various projects, 
and that any item included on the spreadsheet was voted on by the Board. In response to the 
complaint, the Town Administrator searched through meeting minutes going back to January of 
2021 and has been able to account, through these minutes, for the allocation of all but $78,025 of 
ARPA funding. Finally, with respect to any allocation of ARPA funding for which the Town 
Administrator is unable to locate meeting minutes reflecting a vote, the Board has committed to 
revoting those allocations or requesting that the Town accountant reclassify the allocations.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64.5 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive 
summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-18. 
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the meeting minutes listed in the complaint are 
insufficient, the complaint is untimely with respect to the minutes for all but two of the meeting 
dates identified in the complaint. To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must 
be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). All but two 
sets of minutes were approved more than 30 days prior to the date the complaint was filed with 
the Board; therefore, the complaint is untimely with respect to those meeting minutes, and we 
decline to review their sufficiency. See OML 2022-50 (“When a public body approves minutes 
during an open session, any complaints regarding the timely creation, approval, sufficiency, or 
accuracy of those minutes must be filed within 30 days of the meeting during which they were 
approved.”). Although we decline to formally review minutes that were approved more than 30 
days prior to the filing of the complaint, we note our concern that, where the Board has 
represented that all ARPA allocations were voted on by the Board, its meeting minutes may not 
 
4 Based on subsequent communications from the Complainant, we note that to the extent the Complainant may be  
seeking records other than meeting minutes, including documents used at a meeting, s uch a request would fall under 
the Public Records Law and not the Open Meeting Law. Issues related to the Public Records Law should be raised 
with the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office . 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
reflect all votes regarding the allocation of ARPA funds. In addition, based on a cursory review 
of a sampling of the meeting minutes, we note that none of the meeting minutes include a list of 
documents used, even though some of the minutes document decisions made that presumably 
were based on a review of particular documents. We strongly recommend that the Board amend 
its past minutes to accurately reflect all votes that were taken and to include a list of documents 
used during each meeting. 
 
The complaint was timely filed with respect to two sets of minutes—those for Board 
meetings held on August 3 and 31. The minutes for the August 3 and 31 meetings consist solely 
of a list of motions made, votes taken, and occasional notes that discussions were held, but they 
do not summarize any discussions. This is insufficient to comply with the requirement that 
minutes summarize the discussions held during a meeting. Additionally, the minutes fail to 
provide the location of the meetings and do not include a list of the documents used at the 
meetings, even though the minutes document decisions made that presumably were based on a 
review of particular documents. With respect to listing the documents used at a meeting, the 
Open Meeting Law specifies that documents and exhibits used during an open session meeting 
shall be listed in the minutes and “shall be public records in their entirety,” although the 
documents and exhibits do not need to be attached to or physically stored with the minutes.  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(e); see also OML 2022-172; OML 2017-43; OML 2012-59. From this, we infer that 
the requirement to list documents used at a meeting is meant to assist members of the public and 
Town employees in identifying those documents for purposes of making and responding to 
public records requests. See OML 2022–221. We acknowledge the Complainant’s concern that 
the Board’s failure to list documents used at a meeting in its minutes may lead to unreasonably 
high cost estimates for responding to public records requests if neither the requester nor the 
Town can efficiently identify the documents used at a particular meeting.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes for its meetings held on August 3 and 31. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.
6 Additionally, we order the 
Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its August 3 and 31 
meetings to include summaries of all discussions held, the location of each meeting, and a list of 
the documents used at each meeting. As required by 940 CMR 29.07(4), the Board must certify 
in writing to our office that it has complied with the order to amend its meeting minutes. Finally, 
we order all members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law training webinar provided by 
our office within ninety (90) days of the Board’s receipt of this letter.
7 We also encourage any 
Town staff who assist the Board in its work to attend an Open Meeting Law training webinar 
provided by our office.  
 
 
6 In a recent determination issued on November 18, 2022, OML 2022-202, we found that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by creating insufficiently detailed meeting minutes where those minutes did not summarize the 
discussions held. Because OML 2022-202 was issued after the minutes for the August 3 and 31 meetings were 
created and approved, we do not find an intentional violation here. 
7 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/service -
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Dave Nadeau, Chair, Ashby Selectboard (via email: dnadeau@ashbyma.gov) 
Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
