===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 157 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas A. Mullen, P.C. 
40 Salem Street, Building 2, Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received a complaint from Scot McCauley on June 17, 2024, alleging that the 
Wakefield Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 3, 2024, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated June 3.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review.  We also communicated by email with you and 
reviewed emails produced by the Board.  We reviewed minutes of the Board’s meetings of 
February 13, February 27 and April 9.  Finally, we viewed recordings of the March 26 Board 
meeting,2 the April 9 Board meeting,3 and the first session of the Wakefield Town Meeting, 
which went forward on April 29.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  To comply with G.L. c. 40A, § 3A (“the MBTA 
Communities Act”), the Wakefield Town Council formed a seven-member public body, called 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 The recording can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=21P9f9KTofo .  
3 The recording can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=079sQablVjQ .  
4 The recording can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOlYPMFqfGU. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the MBTA Working Group (“the Working Group”), which worked with the Board and Town 
staff to develop a proposed overlay district plan in which multi-family housing would be 
permitted as of right (“the Original Overlay District”).  After it was drafted, the Original Overlay 
District, which was to be the subject of an article at Spring Town Meeting, was presented to the 
public at multiple public hearings.  A citizen’s petition proposed a smaller overlay district and 
was to be the subject of a separate article at Spring Town Meeting.  Public hearings on the 
Original Overlay District and the citizen’s petition went forward during Board meetings held on 
February 13, February 27 and April 9.  Some residents complained that the Original Overlay 
District was larger than what the MBTA Communities Act required.  In response to public 
feedback, a revised plan was developed, featuring a smaller overlay district (“the Minimum 
Map”), different from either of the overlay districts that were subjects of Town Meeting articles.   
 
The Board is composed of five members; thus, three members constitute a quorum.  Two 
Board members, Theodore Noell and James Hogan, participated in the development of the 
Minimum Map, together with Community and Economic Development Director Erin Kokinda.  
On March 26, Board member Hogan reached out to the Working Group about the Minimum 
Map.  At approximately 6:00 p.m. that evening, he sent each member of the Working Group a 
separate but identical email soliciting each member’s “opinion of proposed ‘minimum map’ 
compliance for the . . . overlay district.  Based on public feedback during the public hearing 
process members of the planning board and town leadership are collating a minimum map that 
could be the basis of a floor motion if appropriate.”  One Working Group member, Julie Smith-
Galvin, responded that she was “ok with this in theory” but added: “I don’t think we should 
widely publicize that we have this map so that people stay focused on the original that was 
developed with more input and consideration by the working group.”   
 
Approximately one hour after Board member Hogan sent emails to the Working Group, 
the Board convened for its March 26 meeting.  During the meeting, the Board discussed 
procedural issues regarding the Original Overlay District and the citizen’s petition.
5  Toward the 
end of the meeting, Member Hogan stated that based on public comments, there appeared to be 
some appetite for a “minimum map” that could be presented by floor motion.  He asked whether 
the Board wanted to collate a minimum map that would be the basis of a floor amendment.  
Director Kokinda, who was in attendance at the March 26 meeting, noted the complexities 
involved in amending the overlay district, “something that you can’t just draw up on a map.”  
Member Hogan stated that he and town staff and at times Chair Noell had some conversations as 
to what a minimum map would look like if it were to be introduced by way of a floor 
amendment.  He indicated that he was “more than happy” to share the concept with the rest of 
the Board.  Member Lowry preferred putting off the discussion until after the public hearing on 
April 9.  Delaying the discussion about a minimum map would allow the Board to properly 
notify the public and give everyone an opportunity to hear the discussion, according to member 
Lowry.  There was no further discussion of a minimum map at the March 26 meeting.  
 
At the April 9 meeting, the public hearing about the citizen’s petition lasted almost three 
hours.  At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board voted against favorable action on the citizen’s 
petition and in support of favorable action on the Original Overlay District.  Prior to the latter 
vote, Board members outlined their arguments in favor of the Original Overlay District.  There 
 
5 This discussion commences at approximately 2:43 in the recording. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
was no discussion of the Minimum Map during the April 9 meeting.  The Board did not meet 
again prior to Spring Town Meeting.   
 
As the date of the Spring Town Meeting neared, the drafters of the Minimum Map sought 
a person to introduce it by floor motion.  On or about April 10, Board member Hogan asked 
Council member Robert Vincent to move for a floor amendment at Spring Town Meeting to 
substitute the Minimum Map for the Original Overlay District.  Council member Vincent 
declined.  Among the reasons for his decision, he cited his concern that “the public would not 
have been afforded an opportunity to review the amended map prior to Town Meeting.”  On 
April 26, Board member Hogan called fellow Board member William Spaulding and provided an 
update regarding the Minimum Map and requested that he serve as backup to make the motion if 
no other person could be found to do it.  A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals, David 
Hatfield, ultimately agreed to advance the Minimum Map via floor motion. 
 
Over the weekend preceding the first day of Spring Town Meeting, Board Chair 
Theodore Noell communicated by email with each of the other Board members.  He sent 
separate emails to three of the other four Board members, forwarding a five-page attachment 
with “suggested talking points” to be raised at Spring Town Meeting in favor of the Original 
Overlay District.
6  One paragraph on the first page of the attachment memorialized arguments 
that Board members made in favor of the Original Overlay District at the Board’s April 9 public 
hearing.  However, the attachment also includes arguments that were not explicitly made at the 
April 9 public hearing.    
 
An exchange of emails over the weekend documents that at least four of the five 
members of the Board were aware of a plan to introduce the Minimum Map by floor motion at 
the upcoming Spring Town Meeting.  On Sunday, April 28, Board member Lowry emailed Chair 
Noell, stating: 
 
I spoke with [Board member] Jim [Hogan] the other night and he discussed how 
[Board member] Bill [Spaulding] might be presenting the minimum compliance 
map as a floors amendment immediately following his explanation on the article 
that was submitted.  To be clear, I think this is a mistake and only sows doubt in 
the original article.  My understanding was that this smaller map could be 
presented if it looked like the majority of meting [sic] members voiced a desire 
for a smaller district.   
 
Article 17, which concerned the Original Overly District, was reached on the first day of 
Wakefield’s Spring Town Meeting on April 29.
7  As planned, David Hatfield moved to amend 
the article to include the Minimum Map in place of the Original Overlay District.  Board member 
Hogan then spoke to the creation of the Minimum Map, explaining that “we” developed a new 
map in response to residents’ complaints about the Original Overlay District.  In response to a 
question from the complainant, who was in attendance, Board member Hogan stated that by 
“we,” he meant members of the Board, in conjunction with town staff and the Working Group.  
When questioned further by the complainant, Mr. Hogan stated that three of the five Board 
 
6 William Spaulding was the one member who appears not to have been sent the “talking points.”  
7 The discussion of Article 17 starts at approximately 2:03 in the recording. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
members worked on the Minimum Map “in various conversations back and forth, never at one 
time.”  In response to our investigation, the Board has insisted that only two members, James 
Hogan and Theodore Noell, were involved in creation of the Minimum Map.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  The 
Law sets out limited exclusions from the definition of deliberation, including the distribution of a 
meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting.  Id.  The Law's definition of “deliberation” is not limited to opinion or decision-making 
communications, and includes updates on matters to be discussed by the public body or matters 
that had previously been discussed by the public body and are still pending before it.  See OML 
2020-169; OML 2018-9; OML 2018-6; OML 2017-117.8 
 
A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates 
in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject matter within the 
public body's jurisdiction.  See OML 2024-89; OML 2020-160; OML 2012-84.  Relaying the 
same information through separate telephone calls or separate emails to individual members of a 
public body does not insulate communication from the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
See OML 2020-160 (finding board violated Law when chair communicated to a quorum of the 
board by separate telephone calls); OML 2023-224 (finding planning board violated Law when 
member telephoned each of his fellow members separately to gauge interest in amendment of 
proposal to be discussed at next meeting).  Matthew Lowry’s email to Chair Noell revealed that 
at least four Board members were involved in private discussions about introducing the 
Minimum Map through floor amendment at Spring Town meeting.  The information before us, 
therefore, confirms that a quorum discussed through separate, serial communication a plan to 
introduce the Minimum Map at Spring Town Meeting as an alternative to the Original Overlay 
District.  Moreover, the email from Matthew Lowry to Chair Noell hints at other discussions of 
the Minimum Map: he had an “understanding” that the Minimum Map would be introduced only 
if public demand warranted it.  Because a quorum of the Board discussed introduction of the 
Minimum Map outside of a public meeting, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Chair Noell’s distribution of the “talking points” document also constituted improper 
deliberation.  A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on business 
within a body's jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other member responds.  See OML 2024-
116; OML 2020-136; OML 2018-2.  The talking points document did not fall into any category 
of document that is excepted from the definition of deliberation, such as a meeting agenda or 
 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
scheduling information.  See OML 2018-49 (spreadsheet of building permit values, which 
included opinion of board member did not fall within exception of definition of deliberation).  
Communication which simply memorializes discussions that transpired during an open meeting 
does not constitute deliberation.  See OML 2024-77; OML 2023-90; OML 2021-82.  At least 
some of the “talking points” were a memorialization of points already made by members during 
the Board’s open meetings; such content is not prohibited by the Open Meeting Law.  However, 
at least some of the opinions and strategies expressed in the attachment went beyond what had 
already been discussed at a public meeting, and as such, violated the Open Meeting Law.9   
 
Although the violations we find here may well have resulted from a sincere 
misunderstanding of the Open Meeting Law’s requirements—Board members believed the 
individual communications did not constitute deliberation among a quorum—we nonetheless 
note concern that Board members communicated in this way for the purpose of shielding the 
Minimum Map from public circulation prior to Spring Town Meeting so that it could be 
presented only if deemed necessary.  For his part, Council member Vincent expressed his 
discomfort with introducing the Minimum Map by way of floor amendment, as “the public 
would not have been afforded an opportunity to review the amended map prior to Town 
Meeting.”  Although Board members communicated by individual telephone calls and emails to 
develop a plan to advance their preferred overlay district, the effect was the same as if they spoke 
“in hushed voices and in an empty room - outside of public view.”  See OML 2011-26.  This 
type of violation strikes at the heart of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2011-26; OML 2020-
7. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum deliberated outside of a posted meeting about the Original Overlay District and 
the Minimum Map.  We order the Board to publicly release within 30 days of receipt of this 
determination all emails from any Board member to one or more other Board member(s) which 
reference the Minimum Map and /or plans to amend Article 17 prior to Spring Town Meeting, to 
the extent it has not already done so.  The Board may publicly release the emails by reading their 
content during a meeting and listing the emails in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the 
emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the minutes on the municipal website.  
We also order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
 
  
 
9 The complainant notes that James Hogan stated at Spring Town Meeting that three members of the Board 
participated in the preparation of the Minimum Map.  In response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board 
has maintained that only two members participated in its preparation.  We do not re concile this inconsistency, as we 
find that in any event a quorum did communicate regarding introduction of the Minimum Map at Spring Town 
Meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Matt for
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Scot McCauley (via email:
Theodore Noell, Chair, Planning Board (via email:
Wakefield Town Clerk (via email: bsheeran@wakefield.ma.us)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.