===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 24, 2020 
OML 2020 - 27
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Randazzo:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Jennifer Barnett, on behalf of her 
client Thomas White, on January 24, 2020, alleging that the Provincetown Board of Health 
(the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about November 14 and you responded, on behalf of the 
Board, by letter dated December 18, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
The complaint alleges that the Board committed “impermissible ex-parte deliberations” on 
September 12, September 19, October 10, and October 17.
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session minutes of the 
Board’s October 17 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2 We find certain 
allegations to be untimely and decline to review them, for the reasons discussed below. We 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be 
filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 A video recording of the Board’s October 17 meeting can be found here: 
http://www.provincetowntv.org/watch.html.

===PAGE 2===
29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is 
reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.3
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly deliberated via email on September 
12, September 19, October 10, and October 17. Because you received these email 
correspondences, any complaint concerning email discussions occurring outside of a properly 
posted meeting on September 12, September 19, and October 10 should have been filed with 
the Board within 30 days of each email. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Because the complaint 
was filed with the Board on November 14, more than 30 days after each email, we find that 
this portion of your complaint is untimely and we decline to review it. See OML Declination 
2-1-17 (West Bridgewater Water Commission); OML Declination 11-21-16 (Middleton 
Planning Board); OML Declination 12-15-14 (Ware Conservation Board). We find that the 
complaint was timely filed as to the allegations regarding the October 17 email only.
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of 
other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a 
public body. Id,
On September 5, Health Director Morgan Clark, on behalf of the Board, issued an 
Order to certain residents of Cape Tip Condominiums, located on Bayberry Avenue, 
requesting that they cease parking over septic tanks. The residents appealed and the Board 
scheduled a hearing for its October 17 meeting at 4:00 P.M. The Board’s duly posted notice 
for its October 17 meeting included the following topic: 100-102 Bayberry Avenue, Appeal of 
Health Agent’s Order. On October 17 at 2:18 P.M., Health Director Clark emailed Attorney 
Barnett and the Provincetown Health Agent advising “Per the acting Chair, ‘the Board of 
Health considers the appeal moot. A future appeal may be docketed if there is a genuine 
matter in dispute. Since there is no dispute there is no appeal.” The October 17 meeting was 
held as planned and the Board tabled the Bayberry Avenue topic stating that the appeal was 
moot “for now” as the residents had hired an engineer and were trying to come into 
compliance with the September 5 Order.
Here, the October 17 email was sent by the Health Director to the Health Agent and 
Attorney Barnett, with a copy to another attorney and a resident of the Cape Tip 
Condominiums. Because this communication was between individuals who are not members 
of the Board, the communication did not constitute deliberation. See OML 2017-199; OML
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
2017-69; OML 2015-77; OML 2011-52. Moreover, any communication between the Acting 
Chair of the Board and the Health Director regarding the Bayberry Avenue appeal would also 
not constitute deliberation as such communication did not involve a quorum of the Board.
The Acting Chair denies that he spoke with any Board member regarding this matter outside 
of a properly posted meeting. As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting.
Finally, any allegations raised in the complaint with respect to the Board’s failure to 
grant a hearing, authority to enforce the state sanitary code, or failure to respond to requests 
for documents do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to review 
those matters. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners); OML Declination 3-11-15 (Wayland School Committee). The Division of 
Open Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a 
violation of some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
letter does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding 
this determination.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Jennifer L. Barnett, Esq.
Provincetown Board of Health
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
