===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
October 11, 2012 
James A. Huebner, Chair 
Washington Select Board 
Washington Town Hall 
8 Summit Hill Rd. 
Washington, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Determination — OML 2012-63 
Dear Mr. Huebner: 
Enclosed, please find a corrected copy of Open Meeting Law determination number 
OML 2012-63. The only change from the previous version is the correction of the date of the 
two emails that were discussed on pages 2, 4 and 5 of the determination. 
Please feel free to call me at (617) 963-2820 if you have any questions about this matter. 
Regards, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Rose Borgnis 
0 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 25, 2012 
OML 2012 — 63 
James A. Huebner, Chair 
Washington Select Board 
Washington Town Hall 
8 Summit Hill Rd. 
Washington, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Huebner: 
This office received a complaint from Rose Borgnis on October 28, 2010, alleging that 
the Washington Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 27, 2010, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated October 18, 2010. In her complaint, 
Ms. Borgnis alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting about an 
'employment decision and, on a separate occasion, about who should hold the position of Chair.' 
We reviewed the September 27, 2010 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
October 18, 2010 response; the October 28, 2010 complaint filed with our office; an audio 
recording of the September 13, 2010 Board meeting; minutes from the Board's August 2, 16, 23, 
and 30, 2010, September 13 and 20, 2010, and October 10, 2010 meetings; email correspondence 
between members of the Board and Ms. Terry Walker; a December 16, 2011 email from Ms. 
Walker to our office, attaching a summary of a conversation she had with Selectman Huebner 2; 
and we spoke with the complainant and Ms. Walker by telephone in December 2011 and January 
2012. 
Following our review, we find that 1) the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when Selectman Huebner and the complainant discussed the Chair position prior to Huebner's 
' The complainant further alleges, in the complaint filed with our office, that a quorum of the Board deliberated 
outside of an open meeting in formulating a response to her complaint. Because this allegation was not raised in the 
initial complaint filed with the public body, we decline to review it. Potential violations discovered after a complaint 
has been filed with a public body should be alleged in a subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the 
public body an opportunity to investigate and take appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional 
allegations. 2  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
assuming office; 2) the Board did violate the Open Meeting Law by engaging in deliberation via 
email; and 3) we are unable to determine whether improper deliberation occurred with respect to 
the termination of Ms. Walker. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
The Board consists of three members, thus two members constitute a quorum for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 
On August 2, 2010, the Board voted to offer Terry Walker the position of Administrative 
Assistant to the Board on a 90-day trial period basis. At this time, the Board consisted of the 
complainant and Shaun Lennon. The third Board position was vacant. Later in August, a special 
election was held and James Huebner was elected to the Board. 
The complainant alleges that, after Huebner was elected to the Board but before he 
assumed office, he "took [her] aside and told [her] [she] was to step down from the Chairman 
position and nominate him for it" and "when [she] stated that the conversation was not 
something that should be happening he shrugged and said he hadn't been sworn in yet so it was 
okay." According to the Board's response to the complaint, Huebner did not give any direction 
to the complainant to this effect, rather, "in a brief encounter with Ms. Borgnis prior to the Select 
Board meeting of 8/23 Ms. Borgnis volunteered that she intended to step down as chair and 
would nominate him as chair, which she in fact did." The complainant also alleges that Huebner 
called another member of the Select Board at that time to convince him to nominate Huebner as 
Chair of the Board. In response to this allegation, the Board responded simply, "This is 
hearsay." 
On August 23, 2010, Huebner joined the Board, and was nominated by the complainant 
to become Chair. The motion passed unanimously. Also during this meeting, it was noted that 
Ms. Walker was not present at the meeting and would not be present at the next meeting either. 
Furthermore, it was noted that the Board was unable to review minutes from the previous 
meeting because they had not been provided yet by Ms. Walker. 
On August 30, 2010, the Board met and the Chair "expressed dissatisfaction with the 
performance to date of [the Board's] new Administrative Assistant." At that time, he 
recommended that Ms. Walker be terminated. The complainant disagreed, and the matter was 
tabled. 
On September 2, 2010, the complainant sent an email to Ms. Walker, with copies to the 
other two Board members. The email responded to an earlier message sent from Ms. Walker to 
the complainant in which Ms. Walker asked what days and hours the Board would like her to 
work. The complainant's response said "I think 9-1 on Tues., Wed, Thur would be fine, but we 
can discuss it with the full board on our next Monday night meeting Sept 13th." The email then 
provided contact information for the other two Selectmen. Later that same day, the Chair replied 
via email to Ms. Walker, with copies to the other two Selectmen, stating "Please do not put in 
any time at the Washington Town Hall until the Select Board meets September 13." An 
exchange then followed the following day, September 3, 2010, between the complainant and the 
2 
===PAGE 4===
Chair, with copies to Selectman Lennon and Ms. Walker, about how the Board can and should 
make decisions such as the one regarding when and if Ms. Walker should do work for the Board. 
On September 8, 2010, according to the complainant, she received a call from Ms. 
Walker. Ms. Walker told her that she had just received a phone call from the Board Chair, who 
told her "she should resign as Administrative Assistant or he would fire her on Monday evening 
at the Select board meeting and that it would be a 2 to 1 vote." Ms. Walker also told the 
complainant that, as soon as she realized it was the Chair on the phone, she began taking short 
hand notes, and had the conversation recorded verbatim in that form. 
In response to a request from our office, Ms. Walker declined to provide a copy of the 
shorthand notes allegedly taken during her conversation with the Chair. However, Ms. Walker 
provided us with a long-form summary of those notes via email on December 16, 2011. 
According to Ms. Walker's summary of the conversation, she received a call from the Chair on 
her cell phone in August 2010. The Chair stated "[i]f you don't resign and you attend the next 
Selectmen's meeting, you will be fired." Further, according to Ms. Walker's summary, he stated 
"I have spoken with one of the selectmen and we are in agreement. You will be fired if you 
attend the next Selectmen's meeting. It will be a majority vote." According to the Board's 
response to the complaint, however, the Chair stated only "that he was dissatisfied with her 
performance and that he would make a motion to terminate her. He suggested that she resign to 
save herself the potential embarrassment of being fired in a public meeting." 
On Septeinber 13, 2010, the Board held an open session meeting. The audio recording of 
the meeting reflects that, during the meeting, the Chair adamantly denied speaking with any 
Board member regarding Ms. Walker's employment outside of a properly posted meeting. 
Further, the Chair stated that Ms. Walker misinterpreted what he had said during the August 
2010 phone call. The Chair then stated, "as I said at the last meeting, I think that our current 
administrative assistant should be terminated." He made a motion to terminate Ms. Walker as 
Administrative Assistant, and discussion about the reasons for her potential termination 
followed. During the conversation, the complainant alleged that the Chair had sent an email to 
Ms. Walker telling her not to come into work, and copied the other two Board members. A back 
and forth discussion then occurred between the Chair and Ms. Walker about whether or not he 
said on the August phone call that he had the votes to fire her. The Chair repeatedly denied that 
he'd had a conversation with Selectman Lennon about the matter outside of a meeting. A vote 
was then taken to terminate Ms. Walker, which passed 2 to 1 (the complainant dissented). 
On October 18, 2010, the Board discussed this Open Meeting Law complaint during its 
open session meeting. The minutes state that the Chair "read the cover letter addressed to the 
Attorney General addressing the open meeting law violation complaint" and then the Board 
voted unanimously to file the response with a copy of the complaint. 
In May 2011, the complainant's term expired and she was replaced on the Board by Mike 
Case. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
3 
===PAGE 5===
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction{.]" Id. 
1) The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when Selectman Huebner and the 
complainant discussed the Chairman position prior to Huebner's assuming office., 
There is disagreement about the content of the verbal conversation that occurred between 
the complainant, who was a member of the Board at the time, and the Chair prior to his assuming 
office on the Board. Regardless of whether he demanded or the complainant offered to nominate 
Selectman Huebner to become Chair of the Select Board, the conversation did not constitute an 
improper deliberation as that term is defined in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
At the time the conversation occurred, Selectman Huebner had been elected but not yet sworn in 
as a member of the Select Board. Therefore, while two members of the Board constitutes a 
quorum for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, no quorum was present because only one 
participant in that conversation was a member of the Board. See id. 
2) The Board did violate the Open Meeting Law by engaging in deliberation via email;  
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law on September 3, 2010 when a quorum of the 
Board discussed, via email, how the Board can and should make decisions such as the one 
regarding when and if Ms. Walker should do any further work for the Board. The complainant's 
initial email, sent on September 2, 2010, was sent to a quorum of the Board, since she copied 
both of the other members, but was not an improper deliberation. The email did not relate to 
"public business" within the Board's jurisdiction, since the content was limited to the purely 
administrative scheduling of Ms. Walker's work days and hours. Similarly, the Chair's response 
to the other two members, sent on September 2, 2010, asking Ms. Walker not to put in any time 
before the next Board meeting did not constitute an improper deliberation. However, the 
exchange between the complainant and the Chair that followed on September 3, 2010 did cross 
the line into public business with the body's jurisdiction because it dealt with the issue of 
individual Board members' authority to make decisions on behalf of the Board. See OML 2011- 
38 (holding that "discussions of [certain] procedural or administrative matters are deliberations, 
such as the organization and leadership of the public body, committee assignments, rules or 
bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body should consider or take action on 
specific topics at a future meeting."). These conversations were, therefore, deliberations 
conducted outside of a properly posted meeting, and violated the Open Meeting Law. 
3) We are unable to determine whether improper deliberation occurred prior to the 
termination of Administrative Assistant Terry Walker.  
The complainant and Ms. Walker assert that the Chair stated on the phone that he had 
spoken with another Selectman and that he had the votes to fire Ms. Walker at the next meeting 
if she did not resign. The Chair adamantly denied, both in the response to the complaint and 
during an open meeting, that he ever discussed the matter with another Selectman and that he 
4 
===PAGE 6===
made this statement to Ms. Walker. Ms. Walker has declined to provide this office with her 
contemporaneous shorthand notes from the phone conversation, therefore we are unable to 
determine which account of the conversation is more credible. However, we remind the Board 
of the Open Meeting Law's requirement that all oral communications between a quorum of a 
public body on public business within the body's jurisdiction must take place during an open 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION  
For the reasons stated above, we find that 1) the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when Selectman Huebner and the complainant discussed the Chair position prior to 
Huebner's assuming office; 2) the Board did violate the Open Meeting Law by engaging in 
deliberation via email; and 3) we are unable to determine whether improper deliberation 
occurred with respect to the termination of Ms. Walker. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Additionally, we order the Board to publicly disclose at its next meeting copies of 
the September 3, 2010 emails between the Board's members that resulted in this violation. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Rose Borgnis 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 