===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 46 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Steven Klein, Chair 
New Marlborough Finance Committee 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Klein: 
This office received a complaint from Tom Stalker on August 29, 2020, alleging that the 
New Marlborough Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 30; the 
Committee did not respond.1, 2 In his complaint, Mr. Stalker alleges the Committee failed to 
respond to a request for meeting minutes and that Committee members failed to sign Open 
Meeting Law certification forms.3 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as all 
members, except one, have not signed Open Meeting Law certifications as members of the 
Committee. We find no violation with respect to the other allegation. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the complainant’s request for further 
review. We also reviewed Mr. Stalker’s request for meeting minutes and Open Meeting Law 
certifications provided by the Town Clerk. We communicated via email with Mr. Stalker in 
October 2020 and with you on several occasions in March 2021.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We remind the Committee of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days 
of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to post meeting minutes to the Town’s website, 
we decline to review this allegation. Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their minutes 
to a website, but rather that meeting minutes be made available within 10 days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c); OML 2013-103. Accordingly, we decline to review any allegations regarding this issue. See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
The Request for Meeting Minutes 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “[minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days 
from the date a request is received to provide a response. If minutes do not yet exist at the time 
of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days 
with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form. 
The Public Records Law, on the other hand, allows 10 business days for responding to requests 
for records. See OML 2019-68.4 
 The Open Meeting Law imposes obligations on public bodies; town clerks are not subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). Therefore, a 
request for minutes that is directed to a public body will fall within the Open Meeting Law. A 
request for minutes that is directed to a Clerk as Public Records Access Officer will likely fall 
under the Public Records Law. See OML 2018-32. Here, Mr. Stalker’s July 29 request expressly 
stated that he was requesting meeting minutes under the Public Records Law. The request was 
also sent to the Town Clerk without any request that it be forwarded to the Committee. We 
therefore find that this request was made under the Public Records Law, and find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. We make no determination as to whether the Committee or the Clerk 
complied with the requirements of the Public Records Law. 
Open Meeting Law Certification Forms  
 Mr. Stalker also alleges that Committee members have not completed their Open Meeting 
Law certification forms. The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification 
for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney 
general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to 
section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining 
the open meeting law and its application ... The certification shall be evidence that the member 
of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the 
consequences of violating it.” See G.L. c. 30A § 20; OML 2011-39. The Open Meeting Law 
regulations further clarify that, upon a public body member’s qualification for office, the 
municipal clerk shall provide the required materials to the public body member and the public 
body member shall sign the certification within two weeks thereafter. 940 CMR 29.04(1). 
 The Committee consists of seven members: Steven Klein, Michele Shalaby, Sandra 
Walker, I. Douglas Newman, Robert Miller, John Pshenishny and Barbara Marchione. On March 
25, in response to a request from our office, the Town Clerk provided all certification forms for 
the Committee. The only member who had completed an Open Meeting Law certification form 
for the Finance Committee, on the Attorney General’s prescribed form, was Michele Shalaby, 
dated June 5, 2019. The Town Clerk also provided an Open Meeting Law certification form, on 
the Attorney General’s prescribed form, for Member Newman in his capacity as a member of the 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
New Marlborough Cable Advisory Committee, signed February 28, 2019. However, “[a]n 
individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on 
which he or she serves.” 940 CMR 29.04(4). Therefore, we find that Member Newman has not 
completed the required certification in his capacity as a member of the Finance Committee. The 
Committee did not provide certification forms for any other members of the Committee, nor does 
the Committee assert that the forms were filed with the Town Clerk, but not retained. Because all 
but one Committee member failed to complete the required Open Meeting Law certifications, we 
find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
Timely Approval of Meeting Minutes 
 Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee did not approve 
minutes of its April 23, 2020, May 8, 2020, and May 15, 2020, meetings in a timely manner. See 
OML 2020-2; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). We 
therefore take this opportunity to remind the Committee of its obligation to approve meeting 
minutes in a timely manner. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting 
minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely  manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open 
Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open 
Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.” 940 C.M.R. 29.1 (2).   
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
as all members, except one, have not signed Open Meeting Law certifications. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We order all Committee members except Member Shalaby to review the Open Meeting 
Law, the Attorney General’s regulations, the Open Meeting Law Guide, and any Open Meeting 
Law determinations concerning the Committee within the last five years in which the Attorney 
General found a violation of the Law. We order these same members to certify, on the form 
found on our website, that they have reviewed these materials, and that they understand the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the consequences of violating it.5 These 
certifications should be filed, within 14 days of receipt of this letter, with the Town Clerk. A 
copy of each certification form should also be emailed to our office (openmeeting@state.ma.us), 
within 14 days of receipt of this letter, to demonstrate compliance with this order.  
 
 
5 The Open Meeting Law Guide, and certification form, may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/service-
details/complete-public-body-member-certification 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Tom Stalker (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
