===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 11, 2015 
OML 2015-31 
David Doneski, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Doneski: 
This office received a complaint from Nick Tiernan dated December 29, 2014, 
alleging that various Northborough town officials, including Town Administrator John 
Coderre1 and the Northborough Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Northborough Town 
Clerk on or about November 26, 2014, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated December 17, 2014.2 In his complaint, Mr. Tiernan alleges that a meeting of the Board 
and other town officials on October 30, 2014, which was attended by certain residents by 
invitation only, and therefore closed to the public-at-large, violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find that neither the Board nor the remainder of the group 
that met on October 30, 2014 violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the December 1, 2014 complaint; your December 17, 2014 response, on behalf 
of the Board; and the December 29, 2014 complaint filed with our office, requesting further 
review. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of five members, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. Town Administrator John Coderre organized an "informational 
meeting" (hereafter, "informational session"), which was held on October 30, 2014, for 
certain Northborough residents whose properties border a farm that is the subject of certain 
legal proceedings. Mr. Coderre sent a letter, dated October 17, 2014, to invite the abutting 
1 Mr. Coderre is an individual public official who is not a member of a public body, thus he is not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We therefore decline to review the allegations against Mr. Coderre and consider his actions 
only to the extent they relate to the complaint against the Board. See OML 2014-103. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
residents to an informational session "at which representatives from the Town, the 
Massachusetts Attorney General's Office, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental 
Protection and Worcester Superior Court will update residents on recent activities" regarding 
this property. On October 30, 2014, various town officials and staff attended the 
informational session, including four of the five Board members. Aside from the Board, no 
other Northborough public bodies attended the informational session. The Board members 
attended for the purpose of listening in the audience. They did not sit together, nor did they 
participate in the meeting or even speak to each other. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law defines a "public body," in relevant part, 
as "a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive 
or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. A "meeting" of a public body is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
However, "meeting" does not include "attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other 
event, so long as the members do not deliberate." Id. The law defines "deliberation," in 
relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. 
Mr. Coderre organized the October 30, 2014 informational session to provide an 
update to abutting homeowners about certain legal proceedings concerning a nearby property. 
This informational session was not a "meeting" as defined by the Open Meeting Law for two 
reasons. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. First, the group that met during the informational session was 
not a public body subject to the law's requirements. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The group was 
organized by Mr. Coderre, an individual public official who is not a member of a public body 
and therefore not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-79; OML 2013-70. This 
group was not created by law, and no public body created or otherwise authorized this 
informational session. IcL Furthermore, because invitees could decide whether to attend, the 
group did not have a fixed membership or quorum requirement that empowered them to act 
collectively. See OML 2013-56. Although certain attendees were public officials, we find 
that this group was not "within government" and therefore was not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. 
Second, we find that the while a quorum of the Board attended the informational 
session on October 30, 2014, the Board did not deliberate. The Board members sat separately 
in the audience and did not speak, either to each other or to the larger group. Because there 
was no communication between or among a quorum, there was no deliberation and the 
informational session therefore fell within one of the exceptions to the definition of "meeting" 
3 We note that no representative from our office attended this meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
under the Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-38; OML 2012-72. Accordingly, we find 
that on this date the Board also was not required to comply with the Law's requirements, 
including the requirement under G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) that a meeting of a public body be open 
to the public except under limited circumstances. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that that neither the Board nor the remainder of 
the group that met on October 30, 2014 violated the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Nick Tieman 
Northborough Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 