===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 12, 2018
OML 2018-138
John McAuliffe
Town Administrator, Town of Swansea 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. McAuliffe:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 29 alleging that the 
Swansea Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25.1 The complaint was filed with the public body on June 8, and after receiving an extension of 
time in which to respond, you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 28. In his 
complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by prohibiting 
candidates who were being interviewed for the position of building inspector from entering the 
meeting room until it was each candidate’s turn to be interviewed.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the request for further review filed with our office. We spoke to the Board’s 
legal counsel, Arthur Frank, by phone on October 1, and with Mr. Higgins by phone also on 
October 1. We also viewed video of the June 5 Board of Selectmen meeting.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for, and held a meeting on, June 5. 
The 7th item on the meeting agenda was “Building Inspector Interviews.” The agenda listed the 
names of three candidates to be interviewed. At some point prior to the start of the interviews, 
the Board, through an administrative assistant, informed the candidates that they all would be 
asked the same interview questions and therefore asked whether they would be willing to remain 
outside the meeting room while each other candidate was being interviewed to avoid gaining an
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Video of the June 5 Swansea Board of Selectmen meeting is available at 
https://www.swanseacabletv.com/2018/06/board-of-selectmen-meeting-june-5th-2018/
o

===PAGE 2===
advantage. Each candidate voluntarily agreed. Based on a video recording of the meeting, the 
first candidate appeared to be in the room at the start of the meeting, and when his interview had 
concluded, he voluntarily left the room; the Board did not instruct or even request that he leave. 
The Board then called in the second candidate, and again, at the end of his interview, he left the 
room but was not directed to do so. The Board then called in the third and final candidate.
There is no indication that the candidates were directed to remain outside the room during the 
other candidates’ interviews, but rather that they did so voluntarily.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.3
The complaint alleges that the Board’s administrative assistant prohibited the candidates 
from entering the meeting room until it was each one’s turn to be interviewed. In response, the 
Board asserts that the candidates were asked only whether they would be willing to remain 
outside the meeting room while the other candidates were being interviewed to avoid gaining an 
unfair advantage, and that each agreed to do so voluntarily. Although the complaint alleges that 
the video recording of the meeting “reflects” the Board’s administrative assistant prohibiting 
candidates from entering, we find no indication there that anyone was prohibited from being 
present in the meeting room. And although not determinative, we note that none of the interview 
candidates have filed an Open Meeting Law complaint or otherwise registered their 
dissatisfaction with the process. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body's version of events. See OML 2018-28. We note that the Open Meeting Law would 
prohibit the Board from excluding individuals - even interview candidates - from the public 
portion of a meeting. In this instance, however, we find that the manner in which the Board 
requested - but did not direct - that the candidates remain outside the meeting room complied 
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
------
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Arthur Frank, Esq.
Swansea Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
