===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASFIBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 3, 2011 
OML 2011-3 
John MacGillivray 
Administrative Director 
Board of License Commissioners 
1000 Commonwealth Ave 
Newton Centre, MA 02459 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. MacGillivray, 
On October 8, 2010, this office received a complaint from Mr. Josh Krintzman alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, §§ 23A-B, by the Newton Board of License 
Commissioners (the "Board") on June 1, 2010. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session without posting notice or 
following the procedures required to enter executive session, and that the Board "decided on or 
deliberated toward a decision on the question of whether to grant [an] outdoor entertainment 
license." A copy of that complaint is enclosed. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on July 15, 2010. The Board's response to the complaint was received on August 30, 
2010 (following an extension of time to respond to the complaint, granted by this office on July 
29, 2010). 
By way of background, the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, was revised as 
part of the Ethics Reform Act of 2009. The revisions took effect on July 1, 2010. Pursuant to 
the revisions to the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General is authorized to promulgate 
regulations interpreting and enforcing the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§25(a) and (b). 
We acknowledge that at the time of the alleged violation, neither the revised Open Meeting Law, 
nor the regulations promulgated in accordance with the revised Open Meeting Law, 940 CMR 
29.00, were in effect. Therefore we apply the version of the Open Meeting Law in effect at the 
time of the alleged violation, G.L. c. 39, §23B. 
As an initial procedural matter, the Board contends that the complaint is untimely 
because it was filed after business hours on the thirtieth day after the complainant reasonably 
===PAGE 2===
discovered the alleged violation. As the regulations cited by the Board were not in effect at the 
time of the alleged violation, we investigated this matter as a timely complaint. 
We reviewed the complaint, emails from and between members of the Board, and the 
Board's response to the complaint. Based upon our review of these documents, we find that the 
actions of the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, § 23B, as it existed on June 1, 
2010. 
The complaint alleges that on June 1, 2010, a quorum of the Board met in private to 
discuss an outdoor entertainment license for the Hotel Indigo. The complaint asserts that the 
discussions during the June 1st  meeting should have occurred in an open meeting. The Open 
Meeting Law in effect prior to July 1, 2010 defmed a "meeting" as: 
[A]ny corporal convening and deliberation of a governmental body for which a quorum is 
required in order to make a decision at which any public business or public policy matter 
over which the governmental body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory 
power is discussed or considered. 
G.L. c. 39, §23A. The Open Meeting Law in effect at the time defined "deliberation" as "a 
verbal exchange between a quorum of members of a governmental body attempting to arrive at a 
decision on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
The Board acknowledges in its response that a meeting took place on June 1, 2010 
between Board members Kathleen McCarthy, James Mitchell and several other individuals. It 
explains that this meeting was a continuation of a May 18, 2010 executive session to discuss 
litigation strategy which was properly posted and convened. However, it admits that for the June 
1st  meeting there was "no notice of the meeting published, and no minutes were taken." The 
Board states that the subject of the June 1st  meeting was "limited to the status of the law in•  
relation to pending litigation, policy considerations, the possible ramifications for the Board if a 
declaratory judgment action were to be filed, and potential strategic avenues for the Board to 
take." It asserts that it did not discuss the Hotel Indigo's license and, moreover, that there was 
no deliberation and no vote taken during the meeting. Instead, the Board contends that it was 
briefed by counsel and others on pending litigation, policy considerations, and advised as to 
strategic avenues in relation to that litigation. The Board states that the discussion lasted 
approximately one hour, and there was no discussion of the entertainment license. However, 
there was discussion with counsel in order to "create an effective legal strategy without giving 
away its position on the mater," according to the Board's letter. 
The Board consists of three members, therefore two members constitute a quorum. 
Although it appears that on June 1, 2010, the public body did not directly discuss the Hotel 
Indigo entertainment license, the board engaged in sufficient discussion regarding litigation 
strategy to be considered a "meeting" under G.L. c. 39, §23A. A quorum of a governmental 
body is "deliberating" when the members gather information to advance the body toward a 
policy decision, even if they are not making decisions at the time. See Gerstein v.  
Superintendent Search Screening Committee,  405 Mass. 465, 470-471 (1989) (committee 
engaged in deliberations by interviewing candidates for superintendents, even though no 
discussion occurred among members during the interviews). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
A governmental body may meet in executive session to receive advice of counsel 
regarding litigation strategy. However, the governmental body must follow procedure by 
providing notice, convening first in open session, and keeping and maintaining minutes of the 
executive session. G.L. c. 39, §23B. The Board acknowledges that it "violate[d] the Open 
Meeting Law," but states the violation was "in form only." Failing to follow these procedures is 
not a mere technical violation. These procedures ensure a record of the Board's activities and 
public accountability once the Board releases its minutes. Here, it appears there was a discussion 
with counsel and an attempt to create a strategy with respect to litigation. The Board violated the 
law by failing to post a notice of its meeting, by failing to open the meeting to the public or 
convening an executive session, and failing to take minutes. The fact that the Board disclosed 
the discussion at the next public meeting is commended, but does not cure the violation. 
We note that the revised Open Meeting Law now in effect provides for an even broader 
definition of deliberation. The current law defmes a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction" and a "deliberation" as "an oral 
or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Under the revised Open 
Meeting Law, anytime a quorum of the Board wishes to meet to discuss any topic under the 
Board's jurisdiction, it must follow the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. Because the violation occurred 
before the Attorney General assumed enforcement of the Open Meeting Law on July 1, 2010, we 
are limited in our ability to order the action requested by the complainant, namely, a rescission of 
the vote to grant the outdoor entertainment license to the Hotel Indigo. Moreover, the Board 
does not appear to have deliberated, as that term applied pursuant to G.L. c. 39, §23B, on a vote 
during its June 1, 2010 meeting. However, we encourage the Board to be attentive to the 
requirements of the revised Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25 and ensure future 
compliance. 
If you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the 
number below. 
Sincerely, 
Jo than Sclarsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
'vision of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
Enclosure: October 8, 2010 Open Meeting Law Complaint 
cc: Josh Krintzman 
3 