===PAGE 1===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 11, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 107  
 
 
Noemi Kawamoto, Esp. 
Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. 
260 Franklin Street, Suite 700 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only: nkawamoto@bdboston.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kawamoto: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 30, 2022, alleging 
that the Halifax Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 28, 2022 and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 15, 2022.
1 The 
complaint alleges that the Board posted a notice with insufficient specificity for a meeting held 
on November 22 by failing to include i) the applicants to be considered for recycling abatements, 
ii) the name of the applicant to be appointed as the Veterans’ and Burial Agent; and iii) the name 
of the applicant to be appointed as the Council on Aging van driver. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the 
notice contained insufficient specificity with regard to the recycling abatements and the 
Veterans’ and Burial agent appointment. We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review, and the notice, minutes, and video recording of the Board’s November 22 
meeting.
2 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video recording of the meeting held on November 22 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ajIAOb63EFU. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On November 17, at 1:12 PM, the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on November 22 at 6:00 PM. The notice listed five main topic headings – 
“Approval of Selectmen Minutes,” “Affirm approval of Abatements/Bills/Commitments/ 
Warrants,” “Approval of Abatements/Bills/Commitments/Warrants,” “Discussions,” and 
“Scheduled Appointments.” The “Discussions” topic then included eleven specific item 
descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed, one of which was 
“Recycling abatements.” Under the topic “Scheduled Appointments,” the notice listed 
“Appointment of Veterans’ Agent, Veterans’ Service Officer & Burial Agent” as well as 
“Darlene Regan – discussion on: hiring a van driver.” 
 
The November 22 meeting was held as planned and the Board approved two sets of 
meeting minutes, the payroll warrant, and numerous bills. The Board then discussed recycling 
abatements and considered five requests from residents seeking to reduce their recycling fees. 
When discussing each abatement, the Board identified each request by bill number and voted to 
deny one abatement request (Bill #1269), and “abate” four requests (Bill #2453, #892, #642 and 
#2204).  The Board then appointed Steven Littlefield, the acting Veterans’ Agent, as the 
permanent Veterans’ Agent, Veterans’ Service Officer, and Burial Agent.  
 
The Board later heard from Darlene Regan, Director of the Council on Aging, who was 
seeking to hire a van driver at a higher pay rate, which requires approval by the Board. 
Specifically, Ms. Regan was requesting that the position be offered at $18.00 (Grade 2; Step 4) 
an hour as opposed to $15.42 (Grade 2; Step 1) an hour. The Board approved the hiring of a van 
driver at this rate.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law states in relevant part that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, ... a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list anticipated topics on a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70.
3  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s meeting on November 22 was 
insufficiently specific with respect to several of the topics. First, the complaint alleges that the 
notice failed to list the applicants to be considered for “Recycling abatements.” During the 
meeting, the Board considered five recycling abatement requests and discussed the requests by 
bill number. We find that the notice, at the very least, should have referenced the specific bill 
numbers that were subject of each abatement request. Thus, the Board violated the Open Meeting 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Law with respect to the topic “Recycling abatements” as the notice contained insufficient 
specificity where it did not identify each abatement application to be considered. See OML 
2016-167 (finding that a meeting notice was insufficiently detailed where it did not include the 
names of trash fee abatement applicants).  
 
Second, the complaint alleges that the notice did not list the applicants to be considered 
for the Veterans’ Agent, Veterans’ Service Officer & Burial Agent. When a public body 
anticipates making appointments at a meeting, the meeting notice should include specific details 
about what appointments will be made and the names of anticipated appointees. See OML 2019-
128; OML 2017-177; OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167. Here, the Board appointed Steven 
Littlefield to the position and thus should have included his name on the meeting notice. 
Therefore, we find that this topic was insufficiently specific where it did not list the name of the 
applicant to be considered and appointed. See 2015-196; OML 2014- 155; OML 2011-11 (to the 
extent that a public body knows the name of the specific individual to be appointed, such 
information should be included in the meeting notice). 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the notice did not list the candidate to be considered for 
the position of van driver with the Council on Aging. During the meeting, the Board discussed 
increasing the rate of pay for the van driver position and did not discuss the hiring of any 
particular candidate. Therefore, where the discussion was limited to the wage rate and not the 
appointment of any individual to the position, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by not identifying a candidate for the van driver position in the notice. See OML 2017-64. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board “did not name the person appointed as the 
COA van driver” in the motion made to hire such person. As stated above, the Board did not 
discuss the hiring of any particular individual for the van driver position but rather discussed the 
rate of pay that would be offered for the position. Therefore, because no specific individual was 
identified or appointed as a van driver during the meeting, the Board’s motion necessarily did not 
include such information. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss 
any particular matter nor that it discuss a matter in any particular depth. See OML 2015-73.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a notice with insufficient specificity. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution the Board that a similar, future violation 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
        
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Bethany Salah, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc:
 Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Halifax Board of Selectmen c/o Town Administrator Cody Haddad – By email only: 
Cody.Haddad@halifax-ma.org 
Halifax Town Clerk – By email only: barbara.gaynor@halifax-ma.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
