===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 5, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 35 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Corbo:  
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin on January 4, 2024, alleging that the 
Board of the Carver Redevelopment Authority (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on December 41 and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 22.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board made misrepresentations in its response to a complaint that the complainant previously 
filed with the Board.  The complaint also alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting, by way of an email its Chair, Johanna Leighton, sent to counsel, with a copy to a 
quorum of the Board.     
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the 
chair sent an email to counsel and copied a quorum of the Board.  We decline to review the 
remaining allegations because they are duplicative of allegations in a complaint already reviewed 
by this office or fall outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, we reviewed an email from Chair 
Leighton to Attorney Kathleen O’Donnell, dated July 22. 
  
 
1Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
On or about June 20, Sharon Clarke resigned as chair of the Board.  At a meeting on that 
date, the Board discussed Ms. Clarke’s resignation and the need to appoint a person to fill the 
vacancy created by her departure.  Ms. Leighton2 stated: “I am of the opinion that Sharon 
brought to this authority a vast amount of knowledge on Zoning and Registry of Deeds.”  The 
posting to advertise the position should include that background, according to Ms. Leighton.  On 
July 22, Chair Leighton sent an email to Attorney Kathleen O’Donnell, and copied a quorum of 
the Board.  In that email, titled “Lost [sic] of Sharon Clarke – need to appoint as a consultant,” 
Chair Leighton stated that the Board wanted to retain Ms. Clarke, who formerly served on the 
Board, as a consultant: “I am writing on behalf of my committee to find a solution/bring back 
Sharon Clarke as a consultant on our team.  Ms. Leighton further spoke of Ms. Clarke’s value as 
a tie to an important developer, which would serve the Board well, stating that “we want her 
back as she played an important role with both her 25+ years of sitting on Zoning Board of 
Appeals (knowledge of Carver zoning) and holding a chair position on the RDA with close 
ties/knowledge to our URP project with Hillwood.  I/we want to keep that tie to the inner circle 
of Hillwood as we hope to gain back when the economics slides to a profit vs a loss.”  See OML 
2024-10 for further background regarding efforts to retain Sharon Clarke as a consultant to the 
Board.3    
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. Chair Leighton’s July 22 e-mail c onstituted deliberation in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a 
public body. Id.  See also OML 2022-45. 
 
There are several exceptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly.  See OML 2021-91; 2016-172; OML 2014-51.  For example, “deliberation” does not 
include the distribution of a meeting agenda or scheduling information.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  See 
also OML 2015-69.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  See OML 2021-91.  A one-
way communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body's 
 
2 As of June 20, Ms. Leighton was not yet appointed chair. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation, even if no other member responds.  Id.  See also OML 2020-
136; OML 2020-71; OML 2019-144; OML 2018-118; OML 2015-33. 
 
 Chair Leighton’s email of July 22 was communication on public business within the 
Board's jurisdiction and did not fall within any of the narrow exceptions to the definition of 
deliberation.  As such, it constituted deliberation and its distribution to a quorum of the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law.4   
 
II. We decli ne to review the allegation that the Board made a misrepresentation in its 
response to the complainant’s previously filed complaint. 
 
The Board's interest in retaining Sharon Clarke was the subject of another Open Meeting 
Law
 complaint Robert Belbin filed with the Board on August 7 (“the August 7 Complaint”).  See 
OML 2024-10.  Upon review of the August 7 Complaint, we found that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by posting a notice for its August 1 meeting that was insufficiently specific.  
Id.  In the complaint now before us, Mr. Belbin alleges that the Board made misrepresentations 
in its response to the August 7 Complaint, exposing it to criminal prosecution.  The Division of 
Open Government is tasked with enforcement of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to 
review this allegation.  To the extent that the complainant asks that we consider newly 
discovered evidence in support of the allegations of the August 7 Complaint, we decline to do so.  
We already resolved the August 7 Complaint based on the information that was then available 
and provided to this office. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  As the Board did not take action at the August 1 meeting to retain Ms. 
Clarke as a consultant, we order no further remedial action. 
 
  
 
4 We have noted that communication outside of a meeting which merely memorializes a discussion that occurred 
during a posted meeting does not constitute improper deliberation. See OML 2022-74; OML 2021-82; OML 2020-
48.  However, in this case, minutes of prior meetings do not reflect any discussion of retaining Ms. Clarke as a 
consultant; it was raised for the first time in the July 22 email.  To the extent that a quorum of the Board discussed 
retaining Ms. Clarke as a consultant outside of a posted meeting, such a conversation would have been in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincer
ely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Robert Belbin (via e- mail: )  
 Carver Town Administrator (via e-mail: Robert.fennessy@carverma.gov) 
  Carver Town C lerk (via e-mail: town.clerk@carverma.org) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
