===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 15, 2016 
OML 2016- 128 
Thomas Harrington, Esq. 
Miyares and Harrington LLP 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Hamngton: 
This office received a complaint from Jane Chrisfield on July 19, alleging that the 
Littleton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 9, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 24. The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to include sufficient detail on a topic that was discussed in several executive 
sessions over a period of months earlier this year.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the 
Board, the Board's response, and the complainant's request for further review by our 
office. Additionally, we reviewed the notices of, and open and executive session minutes 
from, the Board meetings at issue.3 
We find the facts as follows. Between January 11 and April 21, the Board 
convened seven executive sessions to discuss Couper Farm, a privately-owned property 
located at 180 Great Road. This property was assessed and taxed under G.L. c. 61 A, 
which provides a reduced tax assessment of a property used for agricultural puiposes in 
exchange for giving the municipality an option to purchase the land if it is offered for sale 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The specific meeting dates are January 11, February 11, March 7, March 14, March 21, April 11, and April 
21, The complainant did not discover the nature of the executive session discussions until the Board's April 
25 meeting during which the Board approved a Host Community Agreement, as we describe herein. 
3 On May 9, the Board released all of the executive session minutes. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
for residential or commercial use while enrolled in the tax assessment program. In the 
Spring of 2015, the owners of the property delivered to the Town a Notice of Intent to Sell 
the property and subsequently withdrew from the tax assessment program in the Fall of 
2015. Accordingly, the Board held three public hearings in 2015 to receive feedback from 
residents on the Town's possible acquisition of the property. The Board also obtained an 
appraisal of the property for its fair market value on November 11, 2015. 
Because the property owner withdrew from the tax assessment program, set to 
expire on July 1, 2017, and the closing date of the sale was scheduled for July 5, 2017, the 
Town's right of first refusal was arguably not triggered. Nevertheless, the buyer asked the 
Town to consider waiving its right of first refusal by imposing certain conditions to the 
buyer's purchase of the land in exchange for the Town's permission to begin construction 
on the property before the closing date. Accordingly, over the course of several months, 
the Board convened in executive session to discuss its negotiations regarding the property. 
Each meeting notice listed the topic as "Executive Session A. Value of Land- Couper 
Farm, 180 Great Road."4 During these executive sessions, the Board discussed various 
conditions it might impose in exchange for its agreement to waive its right of first refusal, 
including the assessed value of the property, the value of a gift of approximately 17 acres 
of land, and the value of the proposed development restrictions and mitigation measures. 
All of these items were included in a draft Host Community Agreement ("HCA"), which 
the Board published on the Town website several days before a hearing held on April 25, 
after which the Board approved the HCA. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). The Open Meeting 
Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and 
include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public 
body's discussion will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.5 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes. G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a). One purpose allows a public body to convene in executive 
session "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair 
declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of 
the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). Before entering executive 
4 Some of the notices also included the following information: "[Map U05-5-0]." 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene 
at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21 (b)(3); see also 
District Attorney forN. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. ofWayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason 
for doing so was proper or improper."). This level of detail about the executive session 
topic should also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The complaint alleges that, each time the Board convened in executive session to 
discuss Couper Farm between January and April (a total of seven times), it did not 
sufficiently describe the purpose of the discussion on the meeting notices because it failed 
to disclose that it planned to discuss an HCA for this property, which was disclosed to the 
public only days before the Board held a hearing and approved it. Here, the discussions 
centered on the Town's decision not to exercise its right to purchase the property in 
exchange for certain conditions that would benefit the Town. Hence, its discussions 
concerned the value of its financial interest in the property; a topic that fits squarely under 
Purpose 6 for which the Board had a negotiating position to protect. See OML 2014-136; 
OML 2016-47. 
When posting notice of an anticipated Purpose 6 discussion, our guidance to public 
bodies has been that the executive session topic should include a sufficient description of 
the anticipated executive session, such as the statutory citation and/or the language used in 
the statute, along with information about the specific property to be discussed, if such 
disclosure does not compromise the Board's negotiating position. See OML 2016-96; 
OML 2016-94; OML 2016-5. Although additional information would have been useful to 
the public, we find that the executive session topic listed on each meeting notice, 
"Executive Session-Value of Land- Couper Farm, 180 Great Road," provided the public 
with sufficient detail of the closed door discussions under Purpose 6. Accordingly, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if 
J 
===PAGE 4===
you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Jane Chrisfield 
Littleton Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
4 