===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 19, 2019 
OML 2019-20
Christopher L. Brown, Esq.
City of Framingham 
Office of the City Solicitor 
Petrini & Associates, P.C.
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Brown:
This office received two complaints on October 31 and two complaints on November 6 
from Ronald Alexander alleging that the Framingham School Committee (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed 
with the Committee on September 21; and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated October 10. The first and second complaints allege that the 
Committee failed to timely respond to a request for open and executive session minutes. The 
third complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely release open session minutes. The 
fourth complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely review executive session minutes.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes. We find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s response to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notice 
and open and executive session minutes of the Committee meeting held on September 5, as well 
as the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meeting held on October 3. Finally, we 
spoke with you by telephone on March 7, 2019.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee duly posted notice for, and then held a 
meeting on, September 5. The Committee first convened in open session at 6 p.m. and approved 
a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session to approve seven sets of executive 
session minutes from meetings held between January 23 and June 6. The Committee then 
reconvened in open session and heard from the Special Education Parents Advisory Council, 
received a report about the Parent Information Center and bilingual education, approved the 
Superintendent’s goals, discussed the Community Eligibility Program, approved four sets of 
open session minutes from meetings held between February 5 and June 6, and approved the 
creation of three scholarship funds.
On September 6, the complainant requested “to inspect all minutes created for or during 
all Open and Executive meetings of the Framingham School Committee and any and all of its 
sub-committees on September 5, 2018.” (emphasis in original). On September 19, the 
Committee provided the complainant with draft open session minutes from the September 5 
meeting, and informed the complainant that it would “be back in touch after the next” Committee 
meeting on October 3 “to provide an update” on the executive session minutes. On September 
22, the complainant filed the complaints at issue here alleging the Committee’s failure to respond 
to his request for, and failure to release, the September 5 open and executive session minutes, as 
well as the Committee’s failure to timely review the executive session minutes.
The Committee duly posted notices for, and then held meetings on, September 17 and 
October 3. During its October 3 meeting, the Committee approved the minutes from its 
September 5 open and executive session meeting. On October 4, the Committee provided the 
complainant with a redacted copy of the executive session minutes from the Committee’s 
September 5 meeting.
DISCUSSION
I. The Committee Failed to Timely Respond to a Request for Meeting Minutes but
Approved Minutes in a Timely Manner.
The first and second complaints allege that the Committee “failed to timely respond” to a 
request to inspect open and executive session minutes, while the third complaint alleges that the 
Committee “failed to timely release” open session minutes from the Committee’s September 5 
meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that “[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created 
and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether 
approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Here, the complainant requested minutes from the Committee’s September 
5 meeting on September 6 but did not receive a response until September 19, when the draft open 
session minutes were provided to him. The Committee contends that open and executive session 
minutes of the September 5 meeting did not exist at the time of the complainant’s request. We 
credit the Committee’s account that minutes did not exist at the time it received the 
complainant’s request. However, the Committee was still required to respond to the request 
within 10 calendar days with an explanation of whether the minutes did or did not exist in either
2

===PAGE 3===
approved or draft form. See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173.2 Because the 
Committee failed to do so, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law by not properly 
responding to a request for minutes. We note that the Committee mistakenly believed it had 10 
business days, as allowed under the Public Records Law, to respond to the request. The 
Committee, however, now understands its obligation to respond to a request for meeting minutes 
within 10 calendar days, and we commend the Committee’s commitment to ensure future 
compliance with the law.
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Committee that a failure 
to respond to a request for minutes within the statutory time frame violated the Open Meeting 
Law. Because we find no evidence that the Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law and where the Committee had not been notified of its obligations prior to the events 
addressed in this letter, we decline to find that this violation was intentional.
With respect to the Committee’s failure to timely release the September 5 minutes, we 
note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies release its minutes, but 
rather that minutes be created and approved in a timely manner.3 See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).
Here, there were no minutes to release in this case because draft minutes of the September 5 
meeting had not yet been created at the time the Committee received the request. The 
Committee approved the September 5 minutes in a timely manner though. “Timely manner” 
means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless 
the public body can show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. 
Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. 
See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. Here, the Committee was required to approve the minutes 
within the next three public body meetings as that was the later of the two time periods. See 940 
CMR 29.11; OML 2018-111. The Committee reviewed and approved the September 5 minutes 
on October 3, its second meeting thereafter, and thus complied with the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law.
II. The Committee Timely Reviewed Executive Session Minutes.
The fourth complaint alleges that the Committee failed to review the September 5 
executive session minutes at its next meeting. Executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 The Open Meeting Law also does not require that public bodies post their meeting minutes to a website. However, 
the Supervisor of Records within the Office of the Secretary the Commonwealth requires that a municipal public 
records access officer, to the extent feasible, post commonly available public record documents on a website 
maintained by the municipality. See 950 CMR 32.04(5)(g).
3

===PAGE 4===
session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session 
has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold 
them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review 
the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure 
of minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the body has not performed a review, it must 
do so and release any non-exempt minutes, or portions thereof, not later than the body’s next 
meeting or in 30 days, whichever first occurs. See Id.; OML 2013-180.
At the time of the September 6 request, executive session minutes did not exist. The 
Committee’s next meeting following the September 6 request was on September 17 but 
executive session minutes still did not yet exist. Therefore, there was nothing for the Committee 
to review at that meeting. As stated above, the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to 
create and approve minutes within the next three public body meetings or 30 days, whichever is 
later. See 940 CMR 29.11. Reading the provisions of the Open Meeting Law and the 
corresponding regulations in concert, as we must, we conclude that the Committee had, at a 
minimum, 30 days to create and then review the minutes of the September 5 executive session 
meeting. Where the Committee conducted that review within 30 days, it complied with the law. 
See OML 2013-199. Thus, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
reviewing the September 5 executive session minutes at its October 3 meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to properly respond to a request for minutes within 10 days. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
4
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government

===PAGE 5===
cc: Ronald Alexander 
Framingham School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
