===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 6,2017 
OML 2017-37 
Diana M. Schindler 
Orange Town Administrator 
6 Prospect Street 
Orange, MA 01364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Schindler: 
This office received two complaints from Douglas Engstrom and James Cornwell 
on October 14 and October 25, respectively, alleging that the Orange Board of Selectmen 
(the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints 
were originally filed with the Board on or about September 7 and September 8, 
respectively, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated September 29.2 
Both complaints allege that, during its August 31 meeting, the Board took action on a topic 
that was not listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board's August 31 and 
September 21 meetings. Finally, we spoke by telephone with the Town Administrator on 
November 30 and with Board Chair Kathy Reinig on February 21. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is an elected public body consisting of 
three members, thus two members constitute a quorum. Board members also serve as the 
Sewer Commission, which usually meets just before Board meetings. On August 31, 
hours before meetings scheduled for both the Sewer Commission and the Board, Board 
member Wally Herk went to Town Flail to inform Chair Reinig and the Town 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Administrator that he would resign from the Board. The Town Administrator called Town 
Counsel and the Elections Division of the Secretary of the Commonwealth and determined 
that the Board would need to notify the Town Clerk immediately in order to get the 
election of this position to run concurrently with the national election on November 8. 
That evening at the Sewer Commission meeting, Mr. Herk submitted his letter of 
resignation for both the Sewer Commission and the Board. Consequently, the Board 
discussed Mr. Herk's resignation during its meeting later that evening. Following this 
discussion, the Board approved a vote to hold a special election on national Election Day 
to fill Mr. Herk's seat on the Board and the Sewer Commission. Because Chair Reinig 
learned about Mr. Herk's resignation on the day of the meeting, the topic was not listed on 
the Board's meeting notice.3 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a 
public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature 
of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 
The complaints allege that, during its August 31 meeting, the Board voted to hold a 
special election to fill a seat on the Board without listing the topic on the meeting notice. 
On the day of the meeting, Mr. Herk informed Chair Reinig about his intention to resign 
from the Board, and subsequently submitted his letter of resignation hours later during the 
Sewer Commission meeting. Because Chair Reinig did not anticipate Mr. Herk's 
resignation until the day of the meeting, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing and voting on the unanticipated topic that evening. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); OML 2017-12. We note that, while public bodies may discuss a topic not 
listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance 
of the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until 
proper notice can be given to the public, if possible. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
3 We note, however, that the topic was added to the agenda distributed at the meeting. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http;//www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Douglas Engstrom 
James Cornwell 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 