===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 29, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 127 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Marc Terry, Esq. 
Mirick O’Connell, LLP  
mterry@mirickoconnell.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
This office received a complaint from Ryan Aldrich on February 14, 2022, alleging that 
the Lancaster Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 14, 2021, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 12, 2022. In his complaint, Mr. Aldrich alleges 
that members of the Board impermissibly deliberated outside of a posted meeting in the leadup 
to the December 6, 2021, appointment of an interim Town Administrator. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We reviewed the notices for the 
Board’s November 24 and December 6 meetings.1 We communicated by email with Attorney 
Terry in April and May of 2022. Finally, we emailed with and interviewed Board Member 
Turner by phone on May 10, 2022.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board has three members, Chair Jason Allison and 
Members Alix Turner and Jay Moody. Therefore, two members constitute a quorum.  
In late 2021, the Board was tasked with hiring a new town administrator for Lancaster. At 
a November 24 meeting, the Board discussed the process for hiring an interim town 
administrator as well as a permanent one. After this initial discussion, Member Turner 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
individually emailed several potential candidates for the position of interim town administrator, 
using a list she received from the Massachusetts Municipal Association. Many of the candidates 
Member Turner contacted were not available during the time period that the Board required for 
the interim position.  
After this outreach, Member Turner scheduled a date for one finalist for the interim 
position—Jeff Nutting—to visit Lancaster on December 1. During Mr. Nutting’s visit, he met 
separately with Member Turner and Member Moody to discuss the position. Mr. Nutting was 
also introduced to some town staff members.  
On December 6, the Board met to discuss appointing an interim town administrator, at 
which time the Board appointed Mr. Nutting.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members 
of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from one public body 
member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other 
members respond. See OML 2020-136.2 However, individual public officials and staff who are 
not public body members are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-3. Therefore, 
any meetings with Board staff at which a quorum of the Board was not present do not constitute 
deliberation. See OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk).  
 Mr. Aldrich alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting during the 
search for an interim town administrator, based on Member Turner’s comments during the 
December 6 meeting which seem to indicate that multiple members had been involved in, and 
discussed the search, after the November 24 meeting. In response, Member Turner explains that 
she mistakenly described the process as a search conducted by multiple Board members when in 
fact she conducted the majority of the search alone, with the one finalist meeting with Member 
Moody separately. Member Turner asserts, and we find no evidence to the contrary, that she did 
not discuss the search with any other members outside of a posted meeting. Absent evidence to 
the contrary, we credit the public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2019-132; OML 2016-
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
58. Therefore, we find that a quorum of the Board did not discuss the interim town administrator 
search outside of posted meeting and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ryan Aldrich (via e-mail:  
 Lancaster Select Board c/o Board Clerk Alix Turner  
 (via e-mail: turnerselect@gmail.com) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
