===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 104 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bruce Assad, Esq. 
Counsel to the Fall River School Committee  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
This office received two complaints from Collin Dias, filed on March 29 and June 4, 
2021,1 alleging that the Fall River School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about February 24, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter 
dated March 16. The second complaint was filed with the Committee on or about March 18, and, 
after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by 
letter dated April 20. Together, the complaints allege that the Complainant was denied full access 
to the Committee’s meetings held on February 22 and March 8. 
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it held meetings on February 
22 and March 8 that were not accessible to the public. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, the requests for further 
review, and the notices for the Committee’s February 22 and March 8 meetings. We also 
communicated with Counsel for the Committee;2 the Chair of the Committee, Mayor Paul 
Coogan; the Chief Operating Officer of the Fall River Public Schools, Ken Pacheco; and the 
Complainant.   
 
The complaints allege that the Complainant was only allowed into the room in which the 
Committee was meeting on February 22 and March 8 for a portion of those meetings. On 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
February 22, the Complainant was not allowed into the meeting room until after the meeting had 
begun. On March 8, the Complainant was only allowed in the meeting room during the 
“Citizens’ Input” portion of the meeting and then was directed to leave the meeting room. The 
Committee explains that due to state restrictions on gathering sizes in place at the time of the 
February 22 and March 8 meetings, the Committee was limited in the number of individuals it 
could allow into the meeting room at any one time. The Committee further explains that in order 
to allow the Complainant into the meeting room for Citizens’ Input, other individuals had to 
leave the room, and so when Citizens’ Input was complete, the Committee asked the 
Complainant to leave the meeting room to allow others to return to the room. Finally, in its 
responses, the Committee asserts that it provided adequate, alternative means of access to its 
February 22 and March 8 meetings via live broadcast on cable television and Facebook Live.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 However, on March 12, 2020, Governor Baker issued an 
executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including 
the provision that meetings be physically accessible to members of the public, provided that the 
public body instead provide adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings 
remotely. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 
(Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). If access to the meeting will be provided through 
“adequate, alternative means,” the meeting notice must include clear instructions for accessing 
the meeting remotely. See OML 2020-102. 
 
Here, both the notice for the February 22 and March 8 meetings list the meeting location 
as Kuss Middle School, Community Room, 52 Globe Mills Avenue, Fall River, MA 02724, and 
do not indicate in any way that the public would be required to access the meetings remotely or 
even that there was an option to access the meetings remotely. Although we understand that it 
may be the Committee’s regular practice to broadcast its meetings live on cable television and 
Facebook, meeting notices must include the location at which the public may access the meeting. 
If the public will be required to access a meeting through adequate, alternative means, then this is 
the “location” of the meeting and clear instructions for accessing the meeting must be included 
on the notice. See OML 2020-102; OML 2020-163; OML 2021-63 (“That meetings of public 
bodies be accessible to the public is fundamental to the Open Meeting Law; therefore, it is 
imperative that a meeting notice state clearly how the public may access the meeting.”).  
 
Additionally, when a public body holds its meeting at a physical location and does not 
require the public to access the meeting via adequate, alternative means, the public body may not 
limit the number of individuals allowed into the physical meeting location. See OML 2021-43. 
By restricting the number of individuals allowed to access the meeting location on February 22 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
and March 8, the Committee denied members of the public access to those meetings. Although 
we appreciate that the Committee was motivated by public safety concerns due to the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus outbreak when it limited the number of people who could be present in the meeting 
room on February 22 and March 8, the Committee should have provided access to the meeting 
via adequate, alternative means—and included such information on the meeting notice—if it 
anticipated it might not be able to accommodate all interested members of the public in the 
meeting room for the duration of the meeting. We find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by denying access to its February 22 and March 8 meetings when it did not allow 
members of the public into the meeting room for the duration of those meetings.  
 
 Next we must determine if these violations were intentional, as the Complainant suggests. 
An intentional violation is 
 
an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentio nal violation .  . . shall 
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation. 
 
940 CMR 29.02. After review of the Committee’s response and discussion with Mayor Coogan, 
Mr. Pacheco, and Counsel for the Committee, we find that the Committee did not intentionally 
violate the law when it failed to provide access to its meetings on February 22 and March 8. 
Rather, the Committee sincerely but incorrectly believed that it had provided adequate, 
alternative means of access in compliance with the Executive Order, and that it was not a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law to deny physical access to the public in an effort to comply 
with requirements related to gathering size restrictions.  
 
Finally, the complaints allege that there was a larger than usual police presence at the 
meeting location on February 22 and March 8. The Complainant asserts that the police and the 
Committee coordinated efforts to deny physical access to the meeting on February 22 for the 
purpose of “silen[cing] people from speaking out and showing up in numbers opposed to the 
superintendent.” The Committee explained that for both the February 22 and March 8 meetings, 
the school had learned, via social media, of plans to hold protests during, or otherwise disrupt, 
the Committee’s meetings. As a result, the school consulted with local law enforcement and 
decided that, in addition to its regular security personnel, four School Resource Officers would 
be on duty during the meetings. The police chief further decided that a patrol car would drive by 
the meeting location periodically to assess the situation. Indeed, the Complainant acknowledged 
to our office that a protest had been planned for the February 22 meeting and that it was his 
understanding that this was the reason for the police presence on February 22. Although a public 
body may not use law enforcement for the purpose of preventing or discouraging attendance by 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the public at its meetings, we find that the Committee did not seek the support of law 
enforcement for the purpose of excluding the public from its meetings. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by holding meetings on February 22 and March 8 that were not accessible to the public. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free 
to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fall River School Committee (via email:  
Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
