===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
March 9, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 30 
 
 
Alan Seewald 
City Solicitor 
City of Northampton 
1 Roundhouse Plaza, Suite 304 
Northampton, MA 01060 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Seewald: 
This office received a complaint from Brian Letzeisen on August 1, 2020, and a 
complaint from Joshua Wallace on August 8, 2020, alleging that the Northampton City Council 
(the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Mr. Letzeisen’s 
complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about June 20; Mr. Wallace’s complaint 
was originally filed with the Council on June 19; and you responded, on behalf of the Council, 
by separate letters dated July 7.  Both complaints allege that the Council improperly deliberated 
while on recess during a June 18 meeting.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
the notices and open session minutes of the Council meetings held on June 18 and June 25, as 
well as video recordings of those two meetings.2  Finally, we spoke with Mr. Letzeisen by 
telephone on February 23, 2021.    
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the Council meeting held on June 18 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nriggZlJEKE; a video recording of the Council meeting held on June 25 is 
available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQD9Rf9QnnM&list=PLvvoQNXtruYTSQKuBzzlY1prHqueLyaT8&index=16 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council is a nine-member public body; thus, five 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
The Council met remotely on June 18 for approximately nine hours.  During the meeting, 
the Council received public comment for two hours relative to police reform and defunding the 
police department.  Council President Gina-Louise Sciarra and Mayor David Narkewicz then 
presented the Council with proposed steps toward meaningful police reform, including the 
creation of a 15-member Policing Review Commission which would review current policing 
services and recommend necessary changes.   
 
The Council then began to discuss the Town’s general fund budget for fiscal year 2021, 
specifically focusing on the $6 million allocated to the police department.  Councilor Alex Jarrett 
suggested a 15% reduction in the police department’s budget and the Council discussed the 
appropriateness of that reduction for over one hour.  Councilor Jarrett then moved to reduce the 
police budget by 15%, that is $981,951.  The Council heard from the Police Chief on how the 
reduction might impact the department as well as the community.  After additional discussion by 
the Council for approximately 20 minutes, Councilor Jarrett withdrew his motion to reduce the 
police budget by 15% stating he needed more time to think about the issue.  Nonetheless, the 
Council continued to discuss reductions to the police budget for another 45 minutes.  Councilor 
Rachel Maiore then moved to reduce the police budget by 10%, that is $669,957.  The motion 
passed by a majority vote of six to three, with Councilors Marianne LaBarge, James Nash and 
John Thorpe opposed.  
 
Concerned that the overall general fund budget would not pass by a majority vote of six 
members, as required by Council Rules, Councilor Jarrett moved to reconsider the previous 
motion.  See 20.001 Council Rules 4.13.2.1 (an affirmative vote of six members is required to 
adopt an appropriation order).  The Council briefly considered the rules regarding a motion for 
reconsideration and then recessed for approximately ten minutes.  Upon returning from recess, 
Councilor Jarrett withdrew his request for reconsideration.  Council President Sciarra then 
moved to adopt the general fund budget as amended by the 10% reduction to the police 
department budget, which passed by a majority vote of eight to one, with Councilor Nash 
opposed.  Because of a conflict of interest, Councilor Jarrett recused himself from a vote on the 
overall general fund budget.  Councilor William Dwight then moved to approve the fiscal year 
2021 general fund budget, which passed with a unanimous vote. 
 
The Council held a meeting on June 25 in which all members participated remotely.  
During the meeting, the Council reviewed and discussed the two Open Meeting Law complaints 
filed by the complainants.  Six Council members - Councilors LaBarge, Thorpe, Dwight, Sciarra, 
Nash, Michael Quinlan, and Karen Foster - affirmatively stated that they did not speak with 
another Council member during the recess that occurred during the June 18 meeting.3   
 
 
3 Councilor Dwight admitted that he texted Council President Sciarra during the recess to alert her that Councilor 
LaBarge’s “microphone was open and that she might want to mute” Councilor LaBarge as it appeared that 
Councilor LaBarge was having a personal conversation.  We consider this type of communication to be an 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Specifically, the three Council members who opposed the 10% reduction to the police 
department budget but voted to approve the overall general fund budget denied speaking with 
other Council members during the recess.  Councilor LaBarge declared that she received a 
telephone call from her brother during the recess and submitted a letter from her brother 
confirming that he spoke with her on June 18.  Councilor LaBarge insisted that she did not speak 
with any Councilor during the recess.  Councilor Thorpe asserted that he did not speak with any 
other Councilor during the June 18 recess and that although he did not agree with the reduction 
to the police department budget, he “still wanted to approve the whole budget in its entirety.”  
Likewise, Councilor Nash denied speaking with other Council members during the recess. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
Both complaints allege that the Council deliberated while on recess during the June 18 
meeting.  The Council took a ten-minute recess after discussing reductions to the police 
department budget for approximately two and one-half hours.  Just prior to the recess, the 
Council approved, by majority vote, a 10% reduction to the police department budget, with three 
Councilors (LaBarge, Nash and Thorpe) opposed to that reduction.  When the Council 
reconvened after the recess, a motion to approve the fiscal year 2021 general fund budget passed 
with a unanimous vote.  The complaints assert that there must have been discussions during the 
recess that persuaded Council members LaBarge, Nash and Thorpe to change their votes.  As a 
preliminary matter, we do not view Council members LeBarge, Nash, and Thorpe as having 
“changed” their votes when they voted to approve the general fund budget despite having 
opposed an item within that budget.  Nevertheless, six Council members, including Councilors 
LaBarge, Nash and Thorpe, affirmatively stated during the June 25 meeting that they did not 
speak with another Council member during the recess that occurred during the June 18 meeting.  
Absent specific evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s version of events that it did 
not deliberate outside of the June 18 meeting.  See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.4  Furthermore, 
we have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among 
public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to 
support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 
2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.  We also note that, although we find no evidence of 
 
administrative task which falls outside of the definition of deliberation, and in any event, this communication 
between two councilors did not reach a quorum. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
any discussion among Council members outside of the meeting, discussion that reached four or 
fewer members out of the nine-member Council would not constitute deliberation in any event.  
Accordingly, we find no evidence that the Council deliberated outside of a noticed meeting and 
therefore we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian Letzeisen – By email only:  
 Joshua Wallace – By email only:  
Northampton City Council c/o Administrative Assistant Laura Krutzler – By email only: 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
