===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 24, 2025  
  
OML 2025 – 31 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Daniel M. Baumel, Esq. 
Rubin and Rudman LLP 
53 State Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
 dbaumel@rubinrudman.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Baumel:  
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on December 2, 2024, alleging that the 
Bridgewater State University Student Government Association (the “Association”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 .  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Association on October 16.  Association Vice President Jacob Qua responded on behalf of the 
Association by email on November 27.1  You served a supplemental response on behalf of the 
University by letter dated January 24, 2025.  The complaint alleges that the Association failed to 
“properly post notice” of its October 15 meeting “as required by Section 20(b) of the Open 
Meeting Law.”  It appears that it was the Association Senate that met that day.  Therefore, we 
also have read complaint to allege that, in the alternative, the Association Senate violated the 
Open Meeting Law.   
 
Following our review, we find that neither the Association nor the Association Senate is a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Because we find that the Association and the 
Association Senate are not public bodies, we also find that they did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by not posting notice of the October 15 meeting.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the response and supplemental response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed notice of the Association’s 
October 15 meeting, and the Constitution of the Association. 
 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and members of public bodies.  See G.L. 
c. 30A, 18-25.  The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
Where a body acts on behalf of its own members, rather than on behalf of the public at 
lar
ge, we have found that it does not serve a public purpose, and therefore does not meet the 
Law’s definition of a public body.  For example, where a local chapter of the state committee of 
the Republican party acted only on behalf of its own members, the state committee and the 
Republican party, and did not act on behalf of the public at large, we found that it was not a 
public body, as it lacked public purpose.  See OML Declination 10-15-2021 (Boston Ward 20 
Republican Committee).2  Similarly, where members of a resident association worked on behalf 
of their fellow residents, rather than the public at large, the association did not serve a public 
purpose.  See OML Declination 6-14-2018 (Linden Chambers Resident Association Executive 
Board); OML Declination 12-20-2021 (Cambridge Highlands Neighborhood Association).    The 
board of directors of the Massachusetts District Attorneys Association also was not found to be a 
public body, where it facilitated meetings of district attorneys and was not established by state 
law to act collectively or to serve a specific public purpose.  See OML 2017-112.   
 
The Cons
titution of the Association provides that “[w]e, the students of Bridgewater 
State University, in order to form an effective and efficient self-governme
nt serving the 
collective interests of the University community, to prepare ourselves for effective living in a 
democratic society, to advocate for the students’ rights and needs, and to encourage self- reliance 
in our search for truth and justice, do establish and endorse this Constitution for the Student 
Body of Bridgewater State University.”  The purpose of the Association is, among other things, 
“to provide the means whereby the members of the Student Body may express themselves 
effectively in the programs of the University, which directly affect their intellectual, social, 
economic, physical and spiritual welfare” and to “provide funding for activities of student 
organizations for the benefit of the entire campus community.”  None of the purposes of the 
Association extend beyond the University community. 
 
The As
sociation Senate is empowered to “act upon recommendations of [Association] 
Boards, governance, and ad hoc committees appointed for special purposes” and “[d]o what is 
necessary to further the purpose of the [Association].”  None of the Association Senate’s duties 
or responsibilities extend beyond the University community.  Based on the above, neither the 
Association nor the Senate serves a “public purpose,” as that term is used in our Open Meeting 
Law analysis.  Therefore, neither is a public body. 
 
  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that neither the Association nor the Association
Senate is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and therefore could not have violated
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with
the Association, the Association Senate or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office
at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Matt Jum
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Collin Dias (via email:
Jacob Qua (via email:
Student Government Association (via email: StudentGovernment@bridgew.edu)
Christina McCauley (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3