===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 29, 2016 
OML 2016-163 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Relihan of The Recorder on September 
29, alleging that the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
August 18, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 13.2 In his 
complaint, Mr. Relihan alleges that the Board improperly discussed professional competence 
during an executive session held on June 27. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice, open and executive session minutes of the Board's June 27 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On June 23, Town counsel became aware of an 
investigation into the Town's Police Chiefs conduct. Counsel informed the Board chair, and 
together they decided to immediately place the Police Chief on paid administrative leave pending 
further discussion at an upcoming Board meeting scheduled for June 27. Notice of this meeting, 
which was posted that day, included three executive session topics, two of which were described 
as "Executive Session under G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(l) to discuss the reputation, character, physical 
Condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or the 
Discipline of dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, 
staff member or individual, votes may be taken[.]" During the June 27 executive session, the 
Board discussed the investigation and decided to allow the Police Chief to return to active duty. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Our office granted the Board's request for an extension to respond to the complaint until September 16. 
FACTS 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b). One executive session purpose allows a public body to enter executive session "to 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1). 
The complainant alleges that the Board's decision to rescind the Police Chiefs 
administrative leave status during its June 27 executive session, by its very nature, had to include 
a discussion of his professional competence. Discussions of an individual's professional 
competence must take place in open session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2012-66.3 
During the executive session, the Board reviewed the allegations with the Police Chief and voted 
to rescind the Police Chiefs administrative leave and allow him to return to active duty. 
Although the complainant's assumption is reasonable, the Board did not, in fact, discuss the 
Police Chiefs professional competence in making its decision. See OML 2015-134. We find 
that the Board's executive session discussion was proper and within the parameters set by 
Purpose 1 under the law. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Montague Board of Selectmen 
Thomas Relihan, The Recorder 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 