===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 10, 2016 
OML 2016-104 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received a complaint from Carol Mirotta, dated July 18, alleging that the 
Pembroke Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 31, and the Board responded by 
letter dated June 14. In her complaint, Ms. Mirotta alleges that members of the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating by e-mail outside of an open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that Board member Gail McSweeney individually violated 
the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a 
copy of the May 18 e-mail correspondence between Chair Donna Bagni and Board member Gail 
McSweeney. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body that includes 
Chair Donna Bagni and Board member Gail McSweeney. The Board also has a staff that 
includes the Town's Health Agent, Lisa Cullity, and the Board's Secretary, who is the 
complainant in this matter. Neither is a member of the Board. The Board planned a meeting to 
be held on May 16. Prior to this meeting, Ms. Mirotta submitted a letter to the Board dated May 
16, which requested that Ms. McSweeney only communicate with her by e-mail or through Chair 
Bagni, and only when necessary. Ms. Mirotta further requested that the Board not provide Ms. 
McSweeney with Ms. Mirotta's private e-mail address or telephone number and that the Board 
members not text or e-mail Ms. Mirotta as part of a group message. 
FACTS 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
===PAGE 2===
The Board held the May 16 meeting as planned. During the meeting, Chair Bagni read 
Ms. Mirotta's letter. The Board agreed to honor Ms. Mirotta's communication request, and Ms. 
McSweeney offered no comments on the request at that time. On May 18, Ms. McSweeney e-
mailed Chair Bagni to ask her whether she "plan[ned] to allow [Ms. Mirotta's request] to stand." 
Chair Bagni responded that she was "very uneasy discussing any topic that occurred during a 
public meeting because of the Open Meeting Law," and she noted that any questions or concerns 
"must be done during a scheduled meeting." Chair Bagni then stated that she "would be more 
than happy to put it on the next meeting agenda for discussion," but that if Ms. McSweeney did 
not wish to schedule discussion on the topic for the next Board meeting, then she planned to 
honor Ms. Mirotta's request. Chair Bagni then stated that she did "not understand why there is 
any reason that [Ms. McSweeney] need[s] direct involvement with the secretary," and ended the 
letter by telling Ms. McSweeney that all correspondence with or requests to Ms. Mirotta should 
be made through Chair Bagni.2 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
SouthbridRe, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. at $ 
18. Deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id (emphasis added). However, deliberation does not include 
"the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [material] . . . provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.'" Id (emphasis 
added). For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a simple majority of 
the members of the public body. Id 
Here, we find that the May 18 e-mail sent by Ms. McSweeney to the Chair violated the 
Open Meeting Law. Because the Board is a three-member body, two members constitute a 
quorum, and thus the March 16 e-mail between Ms. McSweeney and Chair Bagni constituted a 
communication between a quorum of the public body. In her e-mail, Ms. McSweeney inquired 
about the status of Ms. Mirotta's request, a topic that the Board had previously discussed at a 
meeting where Ms. McSweeney had the opportunity to offer comments. The status of Ms. 
Mirotta's communication request was a topic squarely within the Board's jurisdiction, and thus 
the topic was inappropriate for discussion outside of a properly noticed public meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21; OML 2015-33.3 Expression of an opinion on matters within a 
2 We note that this arrangement may raise an Open Meeting Law issue. Because the Board is a three-member body, 
two members constitute a quorum. Therefore, if Ms. McSweeney communicates through Chair Bagni to relay 
Board business to Ms. Mirotta, this communication may constitute deliberation on a matter within the Board's 
jurisdiction, and thus constitute a meeting for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. If this communication between 
Ms. McSweeney and Chair Bagni were not properly noticed and open to the public, then it would violate the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a)-(b). We recommend that the Board consider an alternative arrangement for 
such communications between Ms. McSweeney and Ms. Mirotta. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds. See OML 2015-33; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27. Accordingly, we find 
that Ms. McSweeney violated the Open Meeting Law by communicating with Chair Bagni by e-
mail on May 18.4 
We note that the Board has since discussed at an open meeting the best practices and 
procedures for communicating with each other and with staff, and that the Town has distributed 
copies of the Open Meeting Law guide to all Board members and staff. Furthermore, the 
members of the Board plan to participate in an Open Meeting Law training, which we encourage. 
We commend the Board for proactively addressing this violation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Board member Gail McSweeney individually 
violated the Open Meeting Law. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. We also order that the Board release to the public, within 30 days following 
receipt of this letter, Ms. McSweeney's May 18 e-mail to Chair Bagni. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Carol Mirotta 
Pembroke Board of Health 
4 We note that Chair Bagni's response e-mail may also have violated the Open Meeting Law. Had Chair Bagni's 
May 18 e-mail simply inquired whether Ms. McSweeney wanted to schedule discussion of Ms. Mirotta's request for 
the next Board meeting and nothing more, it would not meet the definition of "deliberation." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
("deliberation" shall not include "the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of 
other procedural meeting [material] . . . provided that no opinion of a member is expressed) (emphasis added). 
Chair Bagni's e-mail response may have gone beyond this exception, however, when she expressed her opinion that 
there was no reason for Ms. McSweeney to have direct communication with Ms. Mirotta. See OML 2016-31. 
However, we commend Chair Bagni for recognizing that the e-mail communication sent to her was inappropriate 
under the Open Meeting Law and that any discussion on Ms. Mirotta's request should take place in a properly 
noticed meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 