===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 9, 2013 
OML 2013-181 
Bonnie Conner 
Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
122 Main St. 
P.O.Box 2041 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
Dear Ms. Conner: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Cathy Maloney (the complainant), filed 
October 10, 2013, alleging that the Hinsdale Select Board (the Board) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board 
engaged in a deliberation outside of a properly noticed meeting. The complaint was filed with 
the Board September 26, 2013. The Board responded with a letter dated October 9, 2013, and 
another filed with our office October 10, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the September 26, 2013, complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's October 9, 2013, and October 10, 2013, responses; and the October 10, 2013 
complaint filed with our office. We also spoke by telephone with the complainant, Selectman 
Conner, and Selectman Goddard in November of 2013.1 
FACTS 
The Board has three members, therefore two members constitutes a quorum. On 
September 3, 2013, the complainant observed William Goddard, a member of the Board, at the 
residence of Bonnie Conner, another member of the Board. The encounter between the two 
members lasted no more than ten minutes. The complainant could not hear the conversation. 
Both reported that the subject of the conversation concerned a Boy Scout troop. 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open and 
accessible to the public, unless an executive session is properly convened. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 
21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body's jurisdiction; provided, however, 'meeting' shall not include . . . 
attendance by a quorum of a public body at a . . . private gathering, including a . . . social. . . 
event, so long as the member do not deliberate . . . ." Id. at § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as 
"an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . ." Id. 
Finally, a "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless 
otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." 
Id. Therefore, any deliberation between a quorum of a public body must be conducted during a 
meeting. 
The complaint alleges that the interaction between a quorum of the Board on September 
3, 2013, was a meeting that occurred without proper notice. While it is undisputed that a quorum 
of the Board spoke outside of a meeting on that date, our investigation has revealed no evidence 
that this interaction concerned public business. We credit the testimony of both participants in 
the conversation that the subject of the conversation concerned a Boy Scout troop. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that members of public bodies live in isolation from their 
communities. Instead, it explicitly recognizes that members of public bodies may interact 
outside of posted meetings so long as their interaction does not concern their official duties. We 
therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Cathy Maloney 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely. 
Mark M. Higgins L 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 