===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
        
July 15, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 128 
 
 
BY EMAIL 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq.  
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12
th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
CMurray@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jude Ahern on September 24, 2023, alleging that 
the Wellfleet Selectboard (“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 25, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 11.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law on June 27 when it discussed matters in executive session that were not 
included on the meeting notice and/or were not appropriate for discussion in executive session.  
The complaint further alleges that the Board discussed matters during its July 11 and July 13 
open session meetings that were not included on the notices for those meeting, namely, 
reorganization of the Board and meeting agenda creation. 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board  violated the Open Meeting Law on June 27 
when it discussed matters during executive session that were not appropriate for discussion in 
executive session.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
regarding the July 11 and July 13 meetings.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review, and the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board’s 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023, unless indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
June 27 meeting.2  We also reviewed several attachments that the Complainant provided, 
including transcripts of the Board’s July 11, 13, and 18 meetings which the Complainant 
prepared.  Finally, we reviewed notices and minutes of the Board’s July 11, 13, and 18 meetings 
and we spoke by phone with the Board’s attorney, Carolyn Murray.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on June 
27.  The notice included the topic, “Executive Session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21(a)(1) to 
hear complaints against a public official or employee,” without additional detail about the 
matters or individuals to be discussed.  The Board convened its meting on June 27 and voted to 
enter executive session.  The minutes of the executive session have been released to the public 
with extensive redactions; therefore, we do not describe the content of the executive session in 
detail.  During the executive session, which lasted approximately three hours, the Board 
discussed the role of the Board’s Chair vis-à-vis the other four members; the dynamic among 
Board members and between Board members and town staff; communications by Board 
members; and how the Board and the town could move forward productively.  The Board also 
discussed complaints that had been brought to the Chair’s attention regarding the Town 
Administrator. 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on July 11.  The notice included 
several topics for discussion but did not include topics related to reorganization of the Board or 
creation of meeting agendas.  During the meeting, Board member Kathleen Bacon stated that two 
members of the Board requested an agenda item to reorganize the Board, but Chair Ryan Curley 
refused to include that topic.
4  Extensive discussion ensued among the Board members, with 
additional comment from members of the public, regarding reorganization of the Board as well 
as Chair Curley’s refusal to allow a vote on a motion to reorganize made by Board member 
Michael DeVasto.  Following a contentious exchange between Chair Curley and member 
DeVasto, the Board voted to place reorganization of the Board on the notice for the next 
meeting. 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on July 13.  The notice included 
several topics for discussion but did not include topics related to reorganization of the Board or 
creation of meeting agendas.  During the public comment and announcements period at the 
beginning of the meeting, Fire Chief Richard Pauley spoke regarding concerns with the hostility 
and division among the Board as well as within the town and advocated for reorganization.  
Board member DeVasto then read an opinion from town counsel stating that reorganization was 
permissible, and member DeVasto expressed concerns that Chair Curley again had not placed the 
topic of reorganization on the notice for the July 13 meeting or had removed the topic from the 
 
2 Redacted minutes of the June 27 meeting have been released to the public.   We reviewed, in camera, a version of 
the minutes with limited redactions only as necessary to protect the attorney-client privilege.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
24(e). 
3 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 The Board has since reorganized and its membership has changed.  For clarity, we refer to Board members using 
their positions during times relevant to this complaint. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
notice.  Following further discussion by the Board regarding reorganization and the meeting 
notice, the Board agreed to discuss reorganization at its next meeting on July 18. 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on July 18.  The notice included, 
among other topics, “Board Reorganization.”  During the July 18 meeting, Chair Curley resigned 
from the Chair position; member Barbara Carboni was elected Chair; and member John Wolf 
was elected Vice-Chair and Clerk.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed matters in executive 
session on June 27 that did not fall within the purpose for which the executive 
session was called, or any other permissible purpose. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
5  The ten executive session 
purposes—as exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public—are narrowly construed.  See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); see 
also OML 2024-30.  The fact that a topic may be of a sensitive nature does not itself constitute 
permissible grounds for discussion in executive session.  See OML 2023-57; OML 2016-81. 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is to “discuss the reputation, 
char
acter, physical condition or mental health ... of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  When a public body plans to convene in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of the discussion must 
“be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session,” and may cause the discussion to be held in open session rather than executive 
session.  Id.  The individual also has certain rights, including the right to be present during the 
executive session; to have counsel or another representative present; to speak on their own 
behalf; and to cause an independent record of the executive session to be created.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed matters during the June 27 executive 
session that went beyond the stated purpose for the executive session.  We agree.  Although the 
Board contends that it discussed complaints that had been conveyed to the Chair regarding the 
Town Administrator, which may be an appropriate topic for discussion in executive session 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
pursuant to Purpose 1,6 we find that the Board’s discussions were not limited to that topic and in 
fact discussion of such complaints accounted for only a small portion of the executive session 
discussions.  Instead, the executive session discussions primarily concerned the role of the 
Board’s Chair vis-à-vis the other four members; the dynamic among Board members and 
between Board members and town staff; communications by Board members; and how the 
Board and the town could move forward productively.  None of those topics were appropriate for 
discussion in executive session, and the discussion in executive session therefore violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  We understand that the Chair’s intention may have been to engage 
primarily in discussion of complaints regarding the Town Administrator; that other members of 
the Board initiated discussion of the other matters; and that on at least a couple of occasions 
during the lengthy discussion the Chair tried to redirect the discussion.  We acknowledge that the 
task of managing the flow of conversation about all manner of public business can be 
complicated.  Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon the public body and its chair to carefully 
monitor the subject matter of discussion when in executive session to ensure that topics do 
not stray from the lawful purpose for which the executive session was called.  See OML 2024-
105; OML 2021-80; OML 2010-6.   
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it discussed 
reorganization and agenda creation during its July 11 and July 13 meetings. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice for all meetings at least 48 
hours prior to the meeting, excluding weekends and holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
must include, among other things, a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  A public body may discuss a topic that the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate would be discussed at the meeting, even if that topic was not included on 
the meeting notice; however, we strongly encourage public bodies to table discussion of topics 
that were not included on the meeting notice until a subsequent meeting so that notice may be 
provided to the public.  See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.  When reviewing whether a topic 
was reasonably anticipated, we look to whether it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at 
the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2020-55; OML 2018-159; OML 2017-2. 
 
The complaint alleges that during the Board’s July 11 and July 13 meetings, the Board 
disc
ussed reorganization of the Board and the process for placing discussion topics on the 
meeting notices, despite that neither topic was included on the notices for the meetings.  There is 
no dispute that at least a week prior to the meetings there had been calls for reorganization of the 
Board, and that Board member DeVasto had specifically requested that the topic of 
reorganization be placed on the meeting notices.  However, our analysis does not end there.  The 
Open Meeting Law requires an examination of the chair’s intent in drafting the notice when 
determining whether a topic was reasonably anticipated by the chair such that it must be included 
on the meeting notice in order for the topic to be discussed.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Where the 
chair of a public body declines to add a topic to the meeting notice because he does not anticipate 
 
6 Because the issue was not raised in the complaint, we do not herein address whether informal expressions of 
concern or general dissatisfaction with an individual’s performance constitutes a “complaint” that may permissibly 
be discussed in executive session.  For purposes of this determination only, we assume without deciding that the 
concerns that the Chair raised regarding the Town Administrator were appropriate topics for discussion in executive 
session.  See, e.g., OML 2013-52; OML 2012-14. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
a discussion taking place during the meeting in question, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law w
hen someone else introduces that topic at a meeting.  See OML 2023-11 (finding no 
violation when the chair declined to place a requested topic on the meeting notice, another 
selectman introduced the topic, and the chair terminated discussion); OML 2017-195; OML 
2014-110; OML 2013-197 (finding no violation where the Chair did not anticipate that another 
public body member would raise a particular topic).  Nonetheless, a discussion on a topic that the 
chair declined to include on the meeting notice, even if technically permissible, would certainly 
violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law to the public’s detriment.  See OML 2017-195 
 
Here, Chair Curley specifically rejected the attempts of other Board members to discuss 
reorganization at the July 11 and July 13 meetings and in fact believed that reorganization only a 
few months after a prior vote to reorganize would violate the Town’s charter.  When other 
members of the Board raised the issue of reorganization during the July 11 and July 13 meetings, 
over his objections, Chair Curley repeatedly tried to terminate the discussion and refused to 
allow a vote to proceed.  On these facts, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
Relatedly, we take this opportunity to explain that the O
 pen Meeting Law does not 
govern the process by which a chair decides to add topics to the meeting notice.  See OML 2023-
11; OML Declination 05-15-19 (Dracut Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  Nor does 
the Law require the chair to add topics to a notice that are requested by fellow members of the 
public body.  See OML 2023-11; OML 2022-140.  Nonetheless, we encourage public body 
chairs to be responsive to issues raised by members of the public or members of the public body. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board viola ted the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters in executive session on June 27 that were not appropriate for executive 
session.  We find that the Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  In addition, we 
order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to release to the public the minutes of 
the June 27 executive session, in their entirety and without any redactions, with the exception of 
the single paragraph approximately halfway down page 3 summarizing the discussion of two 
complaints regarding the Town Administrator.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“the minutes of any 
executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.”).  That single 
paragraph may remain redacted and withheld from the public until such time as the Board 
determines that publication would no longer defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session.  
See id.   
 
  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jude Ahern (via email: ) 
 Wellfleet Selectboard (via email: bos@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
 Wellfleet Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
