===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 6, 2016 
OML 2016-169 
Jennifer Modica 
Chair, Uxbridge Board of Selectmen 
21 South Main Street 
Uxbridge, MA 01569 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Modica: 
This office received a complaint from Gerald Baker, Jr. on September 23, alleging 
that the Uxbridge Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 
17, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated August 29.2 In his 
complaint, Mr. Baker alleges that the Board adjourned its July 25 meeting and then re-
convened several minutes later. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the minutes and a video-recording of the Board's July 25 
meeting.3 Finally, we spoke with Chair Modica on October 12 and November 9. 
We find the facts as follows. During the public comment period at the beginning of 
the Board's July 25 meeting, Chair Modica stated that the meeting was "adjourned" in an 
effort to "calm down" the audience. Although she indeed said, "adjourn," she intended to 
say, "recess." During this recess, which lasted approximately three to four minutes, the 
Board members quietly remained in their seats. Most of the audience also remained in 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The video-recording is available at http://archive.uxbridgetv.org/ 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
their seats. During this time, the Board did not communicate amongst themselves nor ask 
anyone in the audience to leave the meeting. Following this recess, the Board re-convened 
the meeting and continued the public comment period with most of the audience still in 
attendance. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
The complainant alleges that the Board should not have re-convened its July 25 
meeting because Chair Modica "adjourned" the meeting. In a recent determination 
involving similar circumstances, we found that the public body violated the Open Meeting 
Law by making statements that misled the public to reasonably assume that the meeting 
had concluded, See OML 2016-140.4 In that instance, the Board thanked the audience for 
attending and explained that it would take the matter under advisement, ceased recording 
the meeting, and rose from their seats to exit the room, all of which gave the appearance 
that the meeting was over. Id After the audience left the room, the Board returned to their 
seats and resumed the meeting for another 30 minutes. Id Here, although Chair Modica's 
mistaken use of the term "adjourn" would normally be understood to mean that the 
meeting had concluded, the Board members and most of the audience all remained in their 
seats during the brief recess at the beginning of the meeting. The Board did not take any 
other action to suggest that the meeting had adjourned nor restricted the public's access to 
the meeting room in any way. Three minutes later, the Board re-convened the meeting and 
continued the public comment period. Based on the circumstances, we find that the 
Board's meeting, in its entirety, was open to the public. Accordingly, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We remind the Board that in the future it should make 
very clear whether it is "recessing" or "adjourning" a meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider 
the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hamie Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gerald Baker, Jr. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 