===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 25, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 117 
 
 
Cynthia Amara, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
 
By email only: camara@mhtl.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Amara: 
 
This office received a complaint from Martin Gaynor on July 21, 2020, alleging that the 
Scituate Shellfish Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 21 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 11.  The complaint alleges that the 
Committee entered into executive session for an improper purpose on April 23.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the minutes of the Committee’s January 30 meeting and the notice and open and 
executive session minutes of the Committee’s April 23 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a seven-member public body appointed 
by the Board of Selectmen to serve as a subcommittee to the Waterways Commission.  The 
mission of the Committee is to advise the Board of Selectmen and Waterways Commission on 
projects, policies, conservation measures, rules and regulations related to shellfish, including 
aquaculture and wild harvest shellfish.   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
During a January 30 meeting, the Committee discussed the creation of four shellfish 
farms in the area of Briggs Harbor and Bassings Beach in Scituate and the application process 
for individuals to acquire a license to farm at one of the four locations.  The Committee began 
accepting applications for commercial shellfish licenses in the Briggs Harbor/Bassings Beach 
area in late February.  The deadline for submitting applications was April 9.  The Committee 
intended to review the applications for completeness and then send completed applications to the 
Board of Selectmen to hold a public hearing and grant the licenses.  See G.L. c. 130, § 57; 
Scituate Shellfish Aquaculture License Regulations 4.4. 
 
On April 21, the Committee posted notice for a virtual meeting to be held on April 23 at 
6:00 P.M.  The notice listed several topics, including an executive session “to consider applicants 
by a preliminary screening committee for Commercial Shellfish Grant Applications.”   
 
The April 23 meeting was held as planned.  Chair Susan Harrison provided an update on 
the Committee’s efforts to apply for educational and research grants and the Committee 
reviewed citizen correspondence relating to the location of buoys and the proposed location of 
the four shellfish farms at Briggs Harbor/Bassings Beach.  Chair Harrison then declared that the 
Committee would enter executive session “to consider applications by a preliminary screening 
committee for Commercial Shellfish Grant Applications” where “an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on obtaining qualified applicants.  Board member Jeff Palmer moved to enter 
executive session “pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(8) to consider applications by a preliminary 
screening committee for Commercial Shellfish Grant Applications” and the Committee approved 
a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session at 6:50 P.M.   
 
During the executive session, the Committee discussed its role in the preliminary 
application review process, reviewed nine applications for commercial shellfish aquaculture 
licenses, and screened the applications based on the criteria listed in the application itself.  The 
Committee then ranked the applications from one to nine and unanimously voted to submit the 
applications as ranked to the Board of Selectmen.  The Committee adjourned at 8:55 P.M.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to “eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the 
only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which allows a public body 
to enter executive session to “consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and 
interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8).  
The Law defines “preliminary screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted 
by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the 
public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.   
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee’s April 23 executive session 
discussions.  Here, the Committee convened in executive session on April 23 and reviewed 
applications for commercial shellfish aquaculture licenses.  We acknowledge that the preliminary 
screening process may consist of several steps, such as consideration of written applications or 
resumes, selection of some for further consideration, and interviews for the purpose of narrowing 
the field of candidates to two or more finalists.  See Gerstein v. Superintendent Search Screening 
Committee, 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Commonwealth v. Board of Selectmen of the Town 
of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006).  However, we interpret the specific 
language of Purpose 8, which allows a public body to enter executive session to “consider or 
interview applicants for employment or appointment,” to require that discussions of applications 
must be in the context of either employment or appointment, for example, to a public body.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8); Gerstein, 405 Mass. at 471; OML 2013-33.2  Although the Committee 
reviewed applications during the April 23 executive session, the discussions did not specially 
involve the consideration or interview of applicants for purposes of employment or appointment 
but rather for the granting of a fishing license.  Therefore, we find that such discussions should 
not have occurred during the executive session and the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2011-34.  
  
We order the Committee to publicly release its April 23 executive session minutes.  The 
Committee may not redact or withhold from the public any portion of the minutes.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance 
with section 21”); OML 2014-42.  
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint because the executive session minutes have 
not yet been released to the public, we find that the Committee’s April 23 executive session 
minutes are insufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
OML 2016-105.  Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary 
of the discussion on each topic.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body 
held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the 
discussion that was held.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167.  Based on our in camera review 
of the minutes of the Committee’s April 23 executive session, we find that the minutes are 
inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a 
sufficiently detailed summary of the Committee’s two-hour discussions, and instead simply state 
that the Committee reviewed the applications and then listed those applications in order of status.  
We order the Committee to amend its April 23 executive session meeting minutes in accordance 
with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing 
shellfish license applications in executive session on April 23.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  Additionally, we order the Committee to 
amend its April 23 executive session meeting minutes and then publicly release those amended 
executive session minutes in accordance with the above guidance.  The Committee is ordered to 
revise the executive session meeting minutes and to certify to this office within sixty (60) days of 
the date of this letter that it has amended and released the minutes.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       S i n c e r e l y ,  
 
 
 
       K e r r y A n n e  K i l c oyne 
       A s s i s t a n t  A t t o r n e y  G e n e r a l  
       D i v i s i o n  o f  O p e n  G o v e r n m e n t  
 
 
cc:  Martin Gaynor – By ema il only: mgaynor@HuntonAK.com 
Shellfish Advisory Committee, c/o Susan Harrison, Chair – By email only:      
sharrison@scituatema.gov 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
