===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 11, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 159 
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck:  
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on September 4, 2020, alleging that the 
Fall River Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on August 4, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated September 30, following an 
extension of time granted by our office.2  The complaint alleges that the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law “by privately inviting specific members of the public to attend” its August 3 
meeting and by failing to announce that the meeting was being recorded.  
  
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  If 
a public body requires additional time to resolve the complaint, it may obtain an extension from the Attorney 
General.  940 CMR 29.05(5)(b).  The Commission sought and was granted an extension of time by our office until 
September 16.  However, the Commission did not respond to the complaint until 10 business days later, on 
September 30.  We remind the Commission of its obligations under the law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
further review.  We also reviewed the notice and video recording of the Commission’s August 3 
meeting.3  
  
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of 
emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor 
Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law during the state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically 
present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body to participate in a 
meeting remotely.   
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on Monday, August 3 at 5:30 
P.M.  The notice listed four public hearings, a notification filed by the Massachusetts 
Department of Transportation regarding a water quality certification, and approval of two sets of 
meeting minutes.  The notice included the following statement: “In view of the current State of 
Emergency, the usual location for conducting public hearings will be closed to the public.  
Therefore, this will be conducted as a ‘virtual hearing.’”  The notice included the location of the 
meeting as Zoom and provided a specific website address and telephone number to access the 
meeting virtually. 
 
The August 3 meeting was held as planned and two of the four Commission members 
met in the Atrium of One Government Center; the other two members participated in the meeting 
remotely.  A member of Fall River Government Television was present at One Government 
Center and recorded the Commission’s meeting.  At the beginning of the meeting, Chair John 
Brandt announced that “any person may make an audio or video recording of this public meeting 
or may transmit the meeting through any medium and attendees are therefore advised that such 
recordings or transmissions are being made whether perceived or unperceived by those present 
are deemed acknowledge and permissible [sic].”        
 
During each of the four public hearings, a representative for each project applicant was 
present at One Government Center, updated the Commission on the current state of the project, 
and answered questions from the Commission.  In addition to the four representatives, a member 
of the public was also present at One Government Center.  This individual had been invited by 
the City Planner to attend the August 3 meeting as he had “pertinent information” regarding the 
wharf on Davol Street, which was the subject of the first public hearing.  Several other members 
of the public attended the August 3 meeting virtually and spoke during the fourth public hearing, 
which involved the construction of a single-family home. 
 
 
 
 
3 A video recording of the August 3 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xb833zJT_4o.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find That the Commission Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by 
Allowing Certain Individuals to Attend the Meeting In Person, While 
Requiring Other Members of the Public to View the Meeting Remotely. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
2017-135; OML 2016-54.4 
 
The Executive Order temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting 
Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that 1) a quorum of a public 
body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location; and 2) meetings be held 
in locations that are physically accessible to the public.  The Executive Order relieves a public 
body from the requirement to hold its meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public only if the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access.  The 
Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean 
measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.”  Executive Order at Section (1) (emphasis 
added). These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology.”  Id.  
 
The Executive Order further provides, at Section (2), that “[p]ublic bodies are hereby 
authorized to allow remote participation by all members in any meeting of the public body.  The 
requirement that a quorum of the body and the chair be physically present at a specified meeting 
location … is hereby suspended.”  The Division of Open Government construes Section (1) of 
the Executive Order allowing public access through adequate, alternative means to be 
independent from Section (2), which allows members of the public body to participate remotely. 
A public body may conduct its proceedings under the relief provided in Section (1) or (2) or 
both.  See OML 2020-100. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law “by privately 
inviting specific members of the public to attend” the August 3 meeting.  According to the 
August 3 meeting notice, “the usual location for conducting public hearings will be closed to the 
public” and the meeting would be conducted as a “virtual hearing.”  The Commission provided 
the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting via a live broadcast on Zoom.  
However, on August 3, two of the four Commission members met in the Atrium of One 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Government Center, along with five individuals, one person for each of the four public hearings 
being held and a member of the public who was specifically invited to attend the meeting by the 
City Planner.   
 
While a public body may meet in person without providing the public physical access to 
the meeting location, as the Commission did here, the Executive Order requires that adequate, 
alternative access to the meeting be provided.  And although the Executive Order allows a public 
body to provide access to a meeting via “adequate, alternative means,” such as telephone, 
internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing, in lieu of providing in-person access, it 
does not expressly prohibit a public body from allowing some individuals to attend the meeting 
in person.  Further, we note that, although the Open Meeting Law does not require that members 
of the public be permitted to speak or otherwise actively participate during a meeting, numerous 
laws in the Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes 
certain action.5  In fact, the Executive Order takes into consideration that active, real-time 
participation may be required in certain circumstances.  See Executive Order at Section 1 
(“[w]here allowance for active, real-time participation by members of the public is a specific 
requirement of a general or special law or regulation, or a local ordinance or by-law, pursuant to 
which the proceeding is conducted, any alternative means of public access must provide for such 
participation.”).  We also acknowledge that, in some instances, allowing direct participants who 
have a matter on the agenda to attend a meeting in person with the public body members (for 
example, to utilize presentation equipment, ensure high sound quality, and the like) may, in fact, 
enhance the experience for other members of the public accessing the meeting remotely. 
  
As such, we must decide whether a public body may allow certain members of the public, 
including those with a right to participate in the meeting, to attend in person while requiring 
other members of the public to access the meeting virtually.  Although the Governor’s Executive 
Order does not strictly prohibit such a practice, a public body must not act arbitrarily in 
distinguishing between who may attend a meeting in person and who must view the meeting 
remotely.  Therefore, if a public body meets in person in a location that is essentially closed to 
the public but wants to invite certain individuals to attend the meeting in person while providing 
adequate, alternative access to other members of the public, the body should act in accordance 
with a set policy that will meet the Open Meeting Law’s goals of transparency and requirements 
for accessibility.  Although we do not herein dictate the contours of such a policy, we suggest, by 
way of example, that such a policy could allow for direct participants with a matter on the 
agenda, or their representatives, to attend in person.  A public body then should strictly comply 
with the criteria it has established. 
 
Here, we have not been presented with any evidence that a member of the public sought 
to physically attend, or requested permission to physically attend, the August 3 meeting and was 
denied.  Therefore, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
 
5 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of 
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or 
cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed 
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal, 
application or petition).   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
allowing certain individuals to attend the August 3 meeting in person, while requiring other 
members of the public to view the meeting remotely. 
 
II. We Find That the Chair Informed Attendees That the Meeting was Being 
Recorded. 
 
 The complaint also alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce that the August 3 meeting was being recorded.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or 
audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting 
through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement 
and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.  At the 
beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(f).  The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording 
made by members of the public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or 
administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2019-
129; OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136; OML 2012-24. 
 
Here, the August 3 meeting was being recorded by Fall River Government Television.  
At the beginning of the meeting, Chair John Brandt announced that “any person may make an 
audio or video recording of this public meeting or may transmit the meeting through any medium 
and attendees are therefore advised that such recordings or transmissions are being made whether 
perceived or unperceived by those present.”  Although not worded in the clearest manner, we 
find that this statement satisfied the requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording, 
and therefore the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by allowing certain individuals in person access to the August 3 meeting, while 
requiring other members of the public to view the meeting remotely, nor did the Commission 
violate the law by failing to announce that the meeting was being recorded.  We now consider 
the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Commission.  Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
cc:  Collin Dias – By e-mail only:  
Fall River Conservation Commission – By e-mail only:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
