===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 7, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 100 
 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By e-mail only: ghowayeck@fallriverma.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on July 27, 2020, alleging that the Fall 
River City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Council on June 26, 2020, and you responded, on behalf 
of the Council, by letter dated July 15, 2020.1  The complaint alleges that the Council violated 
the Open Meeting Law when it met in person on June 23, but did not allow members of the 
public to physically attend the meeting, instead requiring the public to view the meeting live via 
remote means.   
 
After reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice for the June 23 meeting, 
we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
FACTS 
 
  We find the facts as follows.  On June 19, the Council posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on June 23.  The notice stated at the top: 
 
MEETINGS SCHEDULED 
 
1 Hereafter, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
===PAGE 2===
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBER, ONE GOVERNMENT CENTER 
Due to the COVID-19 Essential Services Advisory, this meeting is closed to the public.  Meetings 
will be available for viewing at https://frgtv.fredtv.us and Channel 18. 
 
The notice also included the date and time of the meeting, followed by a list of topics to be 
discussed.  Council members met in person in the City Council Chamber for the June 23 
meeting.  Members of the public were not permitted to physically attend the meeting in the City 
Council Chamber, but instead were able to view the meeting live on television and on the Fall 
River Government Television website. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2017-135; OML 2016-54.2  
 
On March 10, Governor Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the public 
health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  See 
Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order 
temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of 
emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 
20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  The Executive Order temporarily suspends the 
requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the 
meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public. The Executive Order relieves a public body from the requirement to hold its meetings in 
locations that are physically accessible to the public only if the public body provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access.  Specifically, the Executive Order provides that  
 
Adequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide 
transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of 
the public body.  Such means may include, without limitation, providing public 
access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing 
or any other technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings 
of the public body while those activities are occurring. 
 
Executive Order at Section (1). 
 
 
2 Previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
The Executive Order further provides, at Section (2), that “[p]ublic bodies are hereby 
authorized to allow remote participation by all members in any meeting of the public body.  The 
requirement that a quorum of the body and the chair be physically present at a specified meeting 
location … is hereby suspended.”   
 
The Division of Open Government construes Section (1) of the Executive Order allowing 
public access through adequate, alternative means to be independent from Section (2), which 
allows members of the public body to participate remotely.  A public body may conduct its 
proceedings under the relief provided in Section (1) or (2) or both.  Here, the Council opted to 
meet in person while providing the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting via a 
live broadcast on television and on the Fall River Government Television website in accordance 
with Section (1) of the Executive Order.  The Council was permitted to avail itself of the relief 
provided in Section (1) of the Executive Order, even though the Council members opted to meet 
in person.  Therefore, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Collin Dias (Collind00@aol.com) 
 Fall River City Council (city_council@fallriverma.org) 
 Fall River City Clerk (city_clerks@fallriverma.org) 
 
 
 
 
 
