===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 239 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kimberly Roche, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices P.C. 
kimberly@duperelawoffices.info  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Roche: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Martin on July 31, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Halifax Elementary School Council (the “Council”), and specifically its chair Kayne Beaudry, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Council on or about May 31, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated June 
14. The complaint alleges that the Council failed to properly post notice for its May 2 meeting.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, and the Town of Halifax’s official notice 
posting location, www.halifax-ma.org.  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice 
must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 In the request for further review the Complainant asserts that the Chair failed to disseminate  the Open Meeting 
Law complaint to all members of the Council. We decline to review this allegation as we do not review allegations 
that were not raised in an original complaint filed with the public body. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(3); OML Declination 3-8-2019 (Wellesley Board of Assessors). We remind the Council that within 14 
business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the Chair must distribute the complaint to all members 
of the Council, the Council must meet to review the complaint, and the Council must then respond to the 
complainant in writing and provide our office with a copy of the complaint and the response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal 
clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the 
municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). Alternatively, a 
municipality may designate a website as its notice posting location for all public bodies within 
the municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
 
A municipality may only have one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its 
websi
te as its notice posting location, then that is the official location for purposes of complying 
with the Open Meeting Law. See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c). Although public bodies are 
welcome to post notice of their meetings in additional locations if they choose, we look only to 
the official notice posting location to determine whether a public body has complied with the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-94; OML 2021-18; OML 2020-20; OML 2017-134.
3  
 
The Town of Halifax’s official notice posting location is its municipal website, 
www.halifax-ma.org, which was adopted as the official notice posting location for all Halifax 
public bodies on or around September 28, 2021. The Council explains in its response that it has 
historically posted notice to the school’s website, rather than the town website. Based on the 
Council’s response and a review of the Town’s municipal website, we find that the Council 
failed to post notice of its May 2 meeting to the Town’s official notice posting location, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was intentional, as the Complainant 
urges. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. Here, the Complainant asserts, without support, that the Chair has acted with 
“specific intent to violate the [Open Meeting Law] to cover up for his improper leadership and 
management of Halifax Elementary school council over multiple years.” We find no evidence 
supporting this contention, nor have we warned the Council in the past regarding proper posting 
of meeting notices. Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation.  
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Commission that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kayne Beaudry, Chair, Halifax Elementary School Council  
(via email: kbeaudry@slrsd.org)  
Susan M. Lawless, Town Clerk (via email: Susan.Lawless@halifax-ma.org) 
Michael Martin (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
