===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       February 17, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 18 
 
 
Christopher J. Petrini, Esq. 
Petrini & Associates, P.C. 
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702 
 
By email only: cpetrini@petrinilaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Petrini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Rebecca Hunnewell on July 5, 2022, alleging that 
the Sherborn Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 4, 2022; and Board 
Chair Matthew Vitale responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 
19, 2022.
1  The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board meeting held on March 16 are 
inaccurate.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in ac cordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held 
on March 16 and April 6, as well as video recordings of those meetings.2  In addition, we 
reviewed the supporting materials provided to this office by the complainant on January 31, 
2023.  Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.   
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022.  
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on March 16 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v689N5KQv5w; a video recording of the Board meeting held on April 6 is 
available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A37UdWb1a54. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
3  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board meeting held on March 16 failed to 
include an accurate summary of a presentation given by the complainant regarding proposed 
amendments to the Town’s Open Space Subdivision By-Law.  The complainant is a  member of 
the Board but, during the March 16 meeting, she recused herself as a Board member 
approximately half-way through the meeting.  She then gave a ten-minute presentation to the 
Board as a member of the public with respect to a Citizens’ Petition that proposed two 
amendments to the Open Space Subdivision By-Law.   
 
On March 27, Health Administrator Ellen Hartnett circulated to the Board draft minutes 
of the March 16 meeting.  On March 29, the complainant submitted edits to Ms. Hartnett 
specifying 12 specific statements that she thought needed to be corrected in the March 16 
meeting minutes with respect to her presentation on the amendments to the Open Space 
Subdivision By-Law. 
  
During an April 6 meeting, the Board reviewed the draft minutes of the meeting held on 
March 16 and the complainant’s proposed edits to those minutes with respect to her presentation.  
The Board believed that the minutes captured a sufficient summary of the discussions that 
occurred during the March 16 meeting and considered whether they should accept the proposed 
edits from the complainant where she was participating, at that point in the meeting, as a member 
of the public and not as a Board member.  The complainant narrowed her edits to two specific 
sections in the minutes that she believed contained substantive errors.  The Board approved the 
March 16 minutes as drafted and also approved the Chair’s request that the April 6 minutes 
include the two specific edits raised by the complainant.     
 
After reviewing the minutes of both the March 16 and April 6 meetings, as well video 
rec
ordings of both meetings, and the complainant’s suggested edits to the March 16 meeting 
minutes, we find that the minutes capture a concise summary of the complainant’s presentation 
even though they do not capture, at times, her exact statements.  See OML 2017-104; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55.  A public body is not required to capture every comment made in order 
to substantially comply with the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2021-4; OML 2019-136.  Indeed, we have not required the level of detail and precision the 
complainant seeks here.  See OML 2019-136 (finding that the public body substantially 
complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement for meeting minutes when two members of the 
public spoke during a public comment period and the minutes captured some of the 
complainant’s comments but, according to the complainant, failed to capture at least ten points 
the complainant included in her remarks as well as comments made by another speaker).  
Accordingly, we find that the Committee’s minutes comply with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law and adequately capture the substance of the discussions that occurred so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have an 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2020-113; OML 2016-40. 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rebecca Hunnewell, M.D. – By email only  
 Sherborn Board of Health – By email only: health@sherbornma.org  
  Sherborn Town Clerk – By email only: jmorris@sherbornma.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
