===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 28, 2013 
OML 2013 - 10 
Daniel C. Perry 
Perry, Hicks and Deshaies, LLP 
388 County Street 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
Dear Attorney Perry: 
This office reviewed an Open Meeting Law complaint from Ms. Linda Lally, dated 
January 19, 2012, alleging that the Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development 
District Board of Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board met in executive session on October 26, 
2011, and that Ms. Lally "was not notified of the meeting prior to the date of the meeting was 
held when the Board discussed my reputation, character, health, discipline, charges, complaints 
and termination of my employment." Ms. Lally additionally complains that she was not allowed 
to address the Board during the Board's December 7, 2011 meeting, nor did the Board allow her 
attorney to speak. The complaint was filed with the Board on November 19, 2011. The Board 
responded by letter on November 28, 2011. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the November 19, 2011 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's November 28, 
2011 response; and the January 19, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed a 
letter from the Board dated February 24, 2012, which included correspondence between Ms. 
Lally's attorney and the Board. Additionally, we reviewed the notice and the open and executive 
session minutes of the Board's October 26, 2011 meeting, as well as the notice and minutes of 
the Board's December 7, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
On October 20, 2011, Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development 
District (SRPEDD) Executive Director Stephen Smith met with SRPEDD employee Linda Lally 
and informed her that she would be terminated from employment effective November 30, 2011. 
Following the October 20, 2011 meeting with Mr. Smith, Ms. Lally did not return to work and 
filed for unemployment compensation effective October 23, 2011. 
===PAGE 2===
The Board's meeting notice for its October 26, 2011 meeting included 11 topics, but did 
not include a topic for executive session. During the Board's October 26, 2011 meeting, the 
Board adjourned at 8:15 PM. The Board then convened in executive session at 8:30 PM. It is 
not clear from the record whether the Board convened in open session first and voted to enter 
executive session. Neither the open session minutes nor the executive session minutes reflect 
what purpose the Board cited for entering executive session. The only topic the Board 
considered was the termination of Ms. Lally. During the meeting, Mr. Smith explained the 
reasons for terminating Ms. Lally and explained that he had contacted legal counsel with respect 
to drafting a separation agreement. The Board then voted unanimously to approve "1. 
Termination of Ms. Linda Lally, Director of Transit Planning as of October 20, 2011. 2. Hiring 
of Mr. Dan Perry of Perry, Hicks, and Deschaies, New Bedford to represent SRPEDD in this 
matter." Ms. Lally was not informed about the executive session, nor was she present during the 
meeting. 
The Board also unanimously passed a motion to have the Personnel Committee review 
the Personnel Policies and recommend revisions back to the Commission. It is unclear whether 
this motion was related to the Lally matter. 
Ms. Lally filed her Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board on November 19, 2011. 
In its November 28, 2011 response, the Board acknowledged "the error in not properly posting 
the issue prior to the meeting and acting in executive session instead of open session. This 
matter will be re-voted in open session on December 7, 2011....The minutes of the Executive 
Session from October 26, 2011 have been forwarded to Ms. Lally and will also be posted shortly 
on the SRPEDD web site." 
The Board met on December 7, 2011. The meeting notice included the topic: "Personnel 
Committee: Executive Director's termination of Linda Lally." During the meeting, Attorney 
Daniel Perry,' representing SRPEDD, explained the background of the matter and explained that 
according to SRPEDD's Personnel Policies, the Executive Director with the approval of the 
Commission/Executive Committee may terminate an employee for any cause. According to the 
minutes of the meeting, Attorney Perry explained that "Mr. Smith terminated Ms. Lally for cause 
on October 20, 2011. Mr. Smith then presented the issue for approval from the Executive 
Committee in Executive session and neglected to resume the full Commission for approval in 
open session. Attorneys representing Ms. Lally have filed a motion stating that SRPEDD had 
violated the Open Meeting Law. SRPEDD acknowledged this error." Mr. Perry further 
explained that "[i]n an attempt to correct this error Mr. Smith is seeking approval from the full 
Commission." After some discussion, the Board voted unanimously to approve "the executive 
director's termination of Ms. Linda Lally, Director of Transit Planning as of October 28, 2011." 
Following the vote, Ms. Lally's attorney requested an opportunity to address the Commission but 
was denied. 
For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public," subject to a narrow list of exceptions that can be conducted in executive session. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a). The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Among the ten purposes for executive—or closed—session is Purpose 
1, which states that a public body may enter executive session to "discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public 
body enters executive session for Purpose 1, it must notify the individual who is the subject of 
the discussion in writing at least 48 hours before the meeting and afford the individual certain 
rights, including the right to be present at the meeting, speak on her own behalf, have counsel 
present to advise the individual, request the meeting be held in open session, and make an 
independent transcript or audio recording of the session. Id. Before entering into executive 
session, the Board must first convene in open session, and 1) the chair must state the purpose for 
the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for the session; 2) a majority of the members must vote by roll-call to enter executive 
session; and 3) the chair must state whether the public body will reconvene after the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
Here, the Board entered executive session on October 26, 2011, to discuss and vote to 
approve Ms. Lally's dismissal. From the record, it does not appear that the Board first convened 
in open session as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). The open session minutes from that evening 
state that the Board adjourned its regular meeting at 8:15 PM. The Board then convened in 
executive session at 8:30 PM. The executive session minutes do not include any purpose for the 
executive session, nor is a roll-call vote of the members recorded. There are no open session 
minutes that include a statement that the Board entered executive session or conducted a roll-call 
vote to enter executive session. The Board was required to convene in open session before 
entering executive session, publicly state the purpose for the executive session, take a roll-call 
vote to enter the session, and state whether the Board would reconvene in open session following 
the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow these required procedures. 
The Board also violated the Open Meeting Law, as it acknowledged in both its response 
to this complaint and in open session on December 7, 2011, by meeting in executive session to 
discuss the Ms. Lally's dismissal without providing her 48 hours' written notice and without 
affording her the rights guaranteed by executive session Purpose 1. Although we find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law, we believe that the Board took the appropriate remedial 
steps in response to the complaint. The Board acknowledged its error in its November 28, 2011 
letter in response the complaint. The Board subsequently vacated its October 26, 2011 vote, and 
then properly included the topic of discussing Ms. Lally's dismissal in the notice for its 
December 7, 2011 meeting. During the meeting, the Board explained its error, repeated its 
discussion, and took a new vote. The Board also publicly released the minutes of its October 26, 
2011 executive session, and provided Ms. Lally with a copy. In her January 19, 2011 complaint 
filed with our office, Ms. Lally protests that the SRPEDD "has not remediated their errors but 
only compounded them by placing my termination on the SRPEDD Public Session agenda for 
3 
===PAGE 4===
December 7, 2011 in public session to take-up matters that should have been discussed in 
executive session and by not affording me an opportunity to present my version of the events on 
October 26, 2011 and December 7, 2011." A public body may choose to enter executive session 
to discuss the dismissal of an employee, but is not required to hold that discussion in executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Because the December 7, 2011 meeting occurred in open 
session, the chair maintained the discretion to decide who could address the Board. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(f) ("No person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the 
chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent"). The Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by refusing to allow either Ms. Lally or her attorney to speak on her behalf 
during the Board's December 7, 2011 meeting. 
Ms. Lally asks our office to impose several remedial penalties upon the Board, including 
nullify the Board's action terminating her employment, reinstate Ms. Lally and make her whole, 
and fine the Board $1,000 for each violation of the law. We find no need to nullify the action 
taken by the Board during the improperly held executive session, because the Board itself 
vacated its October 26, 2011 vote and held a new vote on December 7, 2011 during a properly 
held open session. Furthermore, we decline to reinstate Ms. Lally or make her whole, as her 
termination was not effective until the Board conducted its vote in open session on December 7, 
2011. Although this was a serious violation of the Open Meeting Law, the Board's remedial 
actions following the complaint suggest that the Board did not act with intent to violate the law, 
thus we do not seek the imposition of a fine. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c) ("the attorney general may 
issue an order to:... (4) impose a civil penalty upon the public body of not more than $1,000 for 
each intentional violation"). 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board also discussed a matter in 
the October 26, 2011 executive session that was not appropriate for executive session. During 
the meeting, the Board unanimously passed a motion to have the Personnel Committee review 
the Personnel Policies and recommend revisions back to the Commission. This vote was not 
appropriate for executive session, and should have occurred in open session. The Board 
remedied this violation, however, by publicly releasing the minutes of the October 26, 2011 
executive session. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to follow the proper 
procedures for entering executive session at its October 26, 2011 meeting, and by failing to 
provide Ms. Lally the rights afforded to her under the law when the Board met in executive 
session. This was a serious violation of the law. We find, however, that the Board took 
appropriate remedial steps to address the complaint. 
In addition to the steps already taken by the Board, we order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a determination by 
our office of similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We also order the Board to attend a training on the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter, to be conducted by an 
attorney or organization familiar with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and approved 
by this office. The Board may also meet this requirement by viewing the Open Meeting Law 
training video available on the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely,„ 
Following completion of the training, the Board shall send the Attorney General a letter 
certifying that its members have completed the training. 
We make no finding with respect to additional claims in Ms. Lally's January 19, 2011 
letter that the Board's actions violated the SRPEDD's personnel policy or that the Board stifled 
her free speech, as those are not matters governed by the Open Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. 
Je athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Linda Lally 
cc: 	 Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District Board of 
Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a public body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be 
filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 