===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 28, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 214 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph W. Proctor, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
jproctor@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Proctor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Eric Helfer on October 23, 2023, alleging that the 
Holbrook Planning Board (the “Board”), and specifically Board members Christopher Golden, 
Brian Donovan and Christopher Lade, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 19, 2023, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 10, 2023.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting by e-mail on July 6 and in person on 
September 12.
1  The complaint also alleges procedural irregularity in the conduct of the 
September 12 meeting in that the Board failed to “close” the “public hearing” prior to conducting 
a vote.  Lastly, the complaint alleges a conflict of interest and ethical violations on the part of 
Mr. Golden.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when 
members deliberated on September 12 outside of a posted meeting.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review.  We also reviewed the notices for the Board’s meetings on July 11, 
August 15 and September 12.  We decline to review the allegation that e-mails sent on or about 
July 6 violated the Open Meeting Law, as is the complaint was not timely filed as to that 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
allegation.  We decline to review the allegations of procedural irregularity, ethics violations or 
conflict of interest, as those claims fall outside of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  The Board is a five-member body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  By application to the Board, Gioioso Brothers, Inc. sought 
approval of a definitive subdivision plan for 85-86 Sherrick Avenue (“the Plan”).  The Plan, 
which was the subject of prior litigation in the Land Court, was noticed as a topic for discussion 
at the Board’s July 11 meeting.  On or before July 6, Board Chair Christopher Golden proposed 
to Marco Gioioso, of Gioioso Brothers, Inc., a reduction in the number of house lots from seven 
to five.
2  Mr. Gioioso responded by e-mail to Mr. Golden on July 6.  Calling the request “huge,” 
Mr. Gioioso countered with ten conditions that might make the reduction of lots acceptable.  He 
concluded his July 6 e-mail by asking that Mr. Golden “take a poll of the members to determine 
whether they would support this proposal.”  If a majority of Board members supported the 
modified five lot proposal, he would introduce it at the July 11 meeting.  Mr. Golden responded 
by email: “I’ll forward this to the rest of the board and hopefully we can put this to rest and we 
can all move forward.”  On July 10, Mr. Golden reported back by e-mail to Mr. Gioioso that he 
had received responses from two of the three other voting Board members.  (The complainant, 
Eric Helfer, was a member of the Board but had recused himself from deliberations about the 
Plan because he was an abutter.)  Mr. Golden advised Mr. Gioioso that the members had a 
“couple of different points” that likely required further discussion.  He then outlined some 
specific concerns regarding the Plan.     
 
The Board discussed the Plan at its July 11 meeting.   It also discussed the Plan at its 
meetings on August 15 and September 12.  On September 12, members of the Board not 
including the complainant discussed the Plan prior to the commencement of the meeting.
3  
During this conversation outside of the public meeting, Mr. Golden discussed the potential for 
continued litigation if the Board did not approve the Plan.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that 
“[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The 
Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
2 We are not in possession of communications between Messrs. Gioioso and Golden prior to July 6.   
3 According to the complainant, Mr. Golden, Brian Donovan and Christopher Lade were engaged in this discussion.  
According to the Board’s response, Board member Christopher Eddington also was present.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
  
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when members discussed the Plan 
prior to commencement of the September 12 meeting. 
 
In its response, the Board recognizes that the discussion prior to the September 12 
meeting violated the Open Meeting Law.  Nonetheless, the Board argues that the improper 
deliberation did not influence the Board’s vote at the September 12 meeting.  We note, however, 
that a violation need not impact a vote for it to have a corrosive effect on local governance.  
Moreover, the violation is not “minor,” as the Board maintains.  Private deliberations such as 
these feed the secrecy the Open Meeting Law was enacted to eliminate.  We commend the Board 
for committing itself to avoiding such violations in the future.  
 
II. The complaint was not timely filed as to the allegation arising out of the July 6 e-
mail exchange. 
 
A complaint alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the violation could not 
reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 
days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4). 
 
The e-mail of July 104 from Mr. Golden to Mr. Gioioso reflects that Mr. Golden polled 
other members about the revised five lot plan, as he had promised Mr. Gioioso he would do.  The 
complaint alleges that Mr. Golden’s polling of Board members constituted improper deliberation 
outside of a public meeting.  The polling necessarily occurred on or before July 10, the date that 
Mr. Golden reported back to Mr. Gioioso about members’ positions.  The Board represents in its 
Response that the email which polled members was sent to the complainant in July.  The 
complainant has not disputed this representation.  Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law then, the 
deadline to file any complaint regarding that communication would fall in August, 30 days after 
the complainant was made aware of the “polling” email.  Therefore, that portion of the complaint 
is untimely and we decline to review it.  See OML 2020-27.5   
 
Although we decline to review the claim of improper polling, we take this opportunity to 
remind the Board that polling public body members outside of a public meeting is prohibited.  
See OML 2023-176; OML 2020-160; OML 2016-52; OML 2013-186.  We note with approval 
that the Board has “strongly commit[ed] itself” to never conduct an improper poll of its 
members. 
 
III. Claims alleging procedural irregularity, conflict of interest and ethical violations 
fall outside the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Division of Open Government's review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  See OML Declination 8-14-2018 (Wales Planning Board).  The 
 
4 The Board maintains in its response that the complaint and appended e-mails do not reflect polling of other Board 
members.  Whether intentionally or not, the Board overlooks the July 10 e-mail. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
allegations of a conflict of interest, of ethical violations and of improper voting procedure during 
a meeting, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law and we 
therefore decline to review those complaints.  See OML Declination 11-3-2023 (Massachusetts 
Board of Elementary and Secondary Education) (Division of Open Government does not review 
allegations of conflicts of interest); OML 2020-36 (allegation of unprofessional conduct does not 
implicate Open Meeting Law); OML Declination 1-18-2019 (Lanesborough Conservation 
Commission) (Open Meeting Law does not govern requirements for conducting a public 
hearing).  We decline to review those allegations that, even if true, would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the 
Board could be a violation of any other law, regulation or local by-law.  See OML Declination 7-
14-2023 (Belmont Planning Board). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements and caution that future similar violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Holbrook Planning Board , via Chair Christopher Golden (via email: 
 
 Holbrook T own Clerk (via email: jtarara@holbrookmassachusetts.us)  
Eric Helfer (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
