===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
 
October 3, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 185 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Patrick J. Costello, Esq. 
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
pcostello@lccplaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Costello: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Myers on May 1, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Chatham Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about March 19, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 8. The 
complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law during its March 6 meeting 
because the chair failed to exercise his authority under G.L. c. 30A § 20(g) regarding whether to 
allow the Complainant to address the Board and instead allowed the Board as a whole to make 
the decision, which, the complaint alleges, resulted in the Complainant being denied the ability 
to address the Board when the chair would have otherwise allowed the Complainant to address 
the Board.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review and other documents provided by the 
Complainant, and video recordings of the Board’s February 1 and March 6 meetings.
2 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s February 1 meeting may be found at 
https://play.champds.com/chathamma/event/1606. A video recording of the Board’s March 6 meeting may be found 
at https://play.champds.com/chathamma/event/1663. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Complainant is a former resident and property 
owner in Chatham. During the public comment portion of the Board’s February 1 meeting, the 
chair of the Board, Michael Schell, recognized the Complainant to speak. In response, Board 
member David Oppenheim called for a point of order and stated that he did not think it was 
appropriate for the Complainant to speak at Board meetings where the Complainant is no longer 
a resident or property owner in Chatham. Chair Schell then solicited the opinions of the other 
Board members on this issue, noting that he would then decide himself whether the Complainant 
would be allowed to speak or would ask the Board to vote on the issue. In response to Chair 
Schell’s solicitation, Board member Shareen Davis made a comment regarding the Select 
Board’s approach to allowing the Complainant to speak at Select Board meetings. Someone then 
asked whether the Board would vote and Chair Schell explained that he saw no other way to 
resolve the matter. The Board then voted by roll call, with four members voting to deny the 
Complainant the ability to address the Board and two members, including Chair Schell, voting to 
allow the Complainant to address the Board. Chair Schell then stated to the Complainant “I’m 
sorry; the Board has spoken,” and the Board moved on to other topics.  
 
During the public comment portion of the Board’s March 6 meeting, Chair Schell again 
recognized the Complainant to speak. As the Complainant began to speak, Chair Schell 
interrupted and reminded the Complainant that the Board had previously decided not to allow 
comment from individuals who are not residents or taxpayers in Chatham. Chair Schell stated 
that if the Complainant insisted, Chair Schell would call for another vote on the matter and noted 
that he anticipated receiving the same objection from Board members as before. The 
Complainant then began to speak again, hoping to give an introductory statement, when Member 
Oppenheim requested a point of order. Member Oppenheim remarked that the Board had voted 
at its last meeting not to accept comments from individuals who are not residents or taxpayers in 
Chatham and asked that Chair Schell honor the previous vote or take a new vote. Chair Schell 
then asked if anyone who previously voted to deny the Complainant the ability to address the 
Board had a different view on the matter now. Members confirmed that they did not. Chair 
Schell then apologized to the Complainant and explained that the Board was not willing to 
accept his comments. The Complainant accepted this and stated that he would email his 
comments to the Board instead.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when, during the 
March 6 meeting, Chair Schell called “for confirmation of the February 1 vote of the full [Board] 
to determine permission for [the Complainant] to address the [Board] rather than making the 
decision himself.” In so doing, the complaint asserts, “Chair Schell unlawfully abnegated the 
authority granted solely to him by G.L. c. 30A §20(g).” The complaint further asserts that during 
the March 6 meeting Chair Schell confirmed his February 1 vote to allow the Complainant to 
address the Board and that Chair Schell violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to exercise his 
authority to allow the Complainant to speak. Finally, the complaint alleges that the other 
members of the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to object when Chair Schell 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
asked to confirm the February 1 vote of the Board, and, with respect to some members, when 
they confirmed their February 1 votes.  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow for public participation 
in its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(g).
3 The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public body 
to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting, and to set limits on public 
participation. See OML 2012-59; OML 2013-64; OML 2014-23 (noting, additionally, that 
“public bodies have discretion to formulate policies regarding the administration of public 
comment periods”); OML 2018-114; OML 2024-127.
4  
 
 We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be provided an opportunity to speak 
during meetings of public bodies. Moreover, by choosing to ask for input from fellow Board 
members and choosing to follow the wishes of the majority of the Board, even if they were not 
his own personal wishes, Chair Schell exercised his authority and discretion as chair to 
determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. After soliciting input from 
fellow Board members, Chair Schell could have chosen to allow the Complainant to speak over 
the objections of the other Board members. That Chair Schell chose not to do so does not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.
5  
 
  
 
3 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to allow for public participation, we encourage 
public bodies to do so whenever possible. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 Although we find that Chair Schell exercised his authority under G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g), we note that we have found 
in other circumstances that a chair of a public body may delegate their authority. See  OML 2016-108 (finding no 
violation where the committee’s chair implicitly delegated authority to legal counsel to announce the purpose of the 
executive session even though the Open Meeting Law provides that the chair shall state the purpose for the 
executive session); OML 2022-178 (same). 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Schell, Chair, Chatham Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of Trustees (via 
email: mschell@chatham-ma.gov)  
Julie Smith, Chatham Town Clerk (via email: jsmith@chatham-ma.gov) 
George Myers (via email: )  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
