===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617 ) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
November 7, 2017 
OML 2017-170 
David J. Sousa, Chairman 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen 
10 Pearl Street 
Stoughton, MA 02072 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaints 
Dear Chairman Sousa: 
This office received two complaints from Barbara Anzivino, and two complaints from 
Patricia Yanikoski, on September 1, alleging that the Stoughton Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints by Ms. 
Yanikoski were originally filed with the Board on July 31, and the complaints by Ms. Anzivino 
were originally filed with the Board on August 4. The Board responded to all four complaints by 
separate letters dated August 28.2 In the complaints, both Ms. Anzivino and Ms. Yanikoski 
allege that: (i) the Board posted notices for meetings to be held on July 20 and July 25 that 
contained insufficient detail about an anticipated agenda discussion topic, and (ii) a quorum 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently detailed notice for its July 25 meeting. However, we find that the Board's July 
20 meeting notice was sufficiently detailed, and we find no evidence that the Board deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Board's responses to the complaints, and the requests for further review filed 
with our office. We also reviewed the open session minutes and video recording of the Board's 
June 29 meeting; the notice of and open session minutes from the Board's July 20 meeting, as 
well as a video recording of that meeting; and the notice and video recording of the Board's July 
25 meeting.3 Finally, we spoke with Attorney Brian Winner, the Board's legal counsel, by 
telephone on October 30. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not respond to the Open Meeting Law complaints 
within the time frame required by law. We remind the Board that, unless an extension of time has been granted, the 
Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must review the 
complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 The video recordings are available at http;//www.stoughtontv.com/meetings-on-demand.html. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. During a December 15, 2016 meeting, the Board voted to not 
renew Town Manager Michael Hartman's contract, which would expire on June 30. 
The Board held a meeting on June 29. After convening the meeting, and without any 
input from other Board members. Chair David Sousa4 made a motion to appoint William Rowe, 
the Stoughton Town Accountant, as interim town manager. The chair stated that he had spoken 
with Mr. Rowe, and that Mr. Rowe was interested in accepting the position. Following 
discussion, the Board voted to appoint Mr. Rowe as interim town manager. 
On July 18, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 20 at 6 p.m. The 
notice listed, among other topics, the following: "To Consider and Appoint an Interim Town 
Manager." The July 20 meeting was held as planned. After convening the meeting. Chair Sousa 
announced that the meeting was to consider the appointment of an interim town manager and 
asked the Board if there were any recommendations. Board member Robert Cohn nominated 
Stephen Anastos and moved to enter into a discussion with Mr. Anastos. Mr. Anastos was to 
supersede Mr. Rowe as interim town manager as Mr. Rowe had only agreed to serve temporarily 
in the interim town manager position. Following a brief discussion, the Board voted to enter into 
a discussion with Mr. Anastos and further voted to appoint Board member Peter Brown and 
Town Counsel Brian Winner to negotiate with Mr. Anastos and "come up with some kind of 
agreement." Prior to adjourning. Chair Sousa explained that the Board's July 25 meeting would 
be held to discuss any possible agreement reached with Mr. Anastos. Chair Sousa then 
explained, in response to a question from Board member Robert O'Regan, that he had not been 
aware that Mr. Cohn would nominate Mr. Anastos for interim town manager. However, at some 
point prior to the July 20 meeting, Mr. Cohn discussed the possibility of appointing Mr. Anastos 
with Mr. Brown. 
On July 20, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 25 at 6:30 p.m. The 
notice listed, among other topics, the following "To Consider and Appoint an Interim Town 
Manager." The July 25 meeting was held as planned. Mr. Brown stated that he and Attorney 
Winner met with Mr. Anastos and reached an employment agreement, which he emailed to the 
Board that afternoon. Mr. Brown then moved to approve the employment agreement as written 
and appoint Mr. Anastos as interim town manager effective July 26. Following a brief and 
contentious discussion, the Board appointed Mr. Anastos as interim town manager. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board's July 25 Meeting Notice Lacked Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the meeting." Id The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complaints allege that the meeting notices for July 20 and July 25 should have 
included Mr. Anastos' name. We find that Chair Sousa did not reasonably anticipate that Mr. 
Anastos would be nominated at the July 20 meeting because Mr. Cohn only spoke with Mr. 
Brown about the appointment. Thus, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not 
including Mr. Anastos' name on the July 20 notice. However, since the Board discussed Mr. 
Anastos at its July 20 meeting and the chair specifically indicated that the Board would discuss 
any employment agreement with Mr. Anastos at its next meeting, his name should have appeared 
on the July 25 meeting notice. We have stated in past determinations that where a public body 
chair knows the identities of individuals being considered for appointment, those names should 
be listed on the meeting notice. See OML 2015-196; OML 2014- 155.5 We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by not including Mr. Anastos' name on the July 25 meeting 
notice. See OML 2012-113. 
II. We Find No Evidence that the Board Deliberated Outside of a Noticed Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(a). The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is, in turn, defined as, "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is generally 
a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. 
The complaints allege that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting in deciding to appoint Mr. Anastos to the interim town manager position. While Mr. 
Cohn spoke with Mr. Brown about the proposed appointment prior to the July 20 meeting, their 
communication did not reach a quorum of the Board. Moreover, only Mr. Brown and Attorney 
Winner spoke with Mr. Anastos regarding the employment agreement that was later discussed at 
the July 25 meeting. As such, this communication also did not reach a quorum of the Board. 
The Board denies that any further communications took place on this topic prior to the July 
meetings, and, absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the 
facts. See OML 2017-138. The complaint notes that certain Board members moved to act on 
the matter of Mr. Anastos' appointment with relatively little discussion, implying that there had 
been prior communication about the topic. We have stated in prior determinations that 
agreement among public body members is insufficient to support the inference that those 
members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128. Based 
on the foregoing, we find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a July 25 meeting notice that contained insufficient detail about an anticipated agenda 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
discussion topic. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law where its July 20 
meeting notice was sufficiently detailed, and we find no evidence that the Board deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Barbara Anzivino 
Patricia Yanikoski 
Brian Winner, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne ivucoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 