===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 25, 2013 
OML 2013-175 
Joseph S. Fair, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Fair: 
This office received a complaint from Gerard Russell, on behalf of the Worcester 
Telegram & Gazette, dated June 18, 2013, alleging that the Sturbridge Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on or about May 21, 2013, and you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated June 11, 2013. In his complaint, Mr. Russell alleges that during its April 22, 2013 
meeting, the Board discussed a topic in executive session that fell outside of the stated purpose. 
We reviewed the May 21, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's June 11, 
2013 response; and the June 18, 2013 complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes from the Board's 
April 22, 2013 meeting, as well as the notice and open session minutes from the Board's May 22, 
2013 meeting. We also reviewed portions of the recordings from both meetings. Finally, we 
spoke by telephone with then-Chair Thomas Creamer. 
Following our review, we find that the Board discussed a topic that was inappropriate for 
executive session. We commend the Board's efforts to address this violation, however we find 
the remedial action taken was not wholly sufficient, for the reasons explained below. 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Because the 
Board has not released the executive session minutes of the meeting discussed, we do not recount 
their content in full. However, we offer a general summary of the discussions below. 
The Board posted notice for an April 22, 2013 meeting on April 17, 2013. The executive 
session topic on the notice was listed as follows: "Executive Session: MGL c. 30A, § 21(a) [t]o 
consider the discipline or dismissal of, [o]r to hear complaints or charges brought against a 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
public officer, employee or individual."1 On April 18, 2013, then-Chief of the Fire Department, 
Leonard Senecal, received a notice of an upcoming executive session to discuss a complaint filed 
against him. On April 22, 2013, the Board convened in open session for the sole purpose of 
following the requisite procedures for entering into executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1). During the executive session, the Board discussed with Chief Senecal its concerns 
regarding certain issues within the Fire Department. Consequently, the Board approved a motion 
to direct the Town Administrator to issue paid administrative leave to Chief Senecal. 
The discussion then turned to the status of a Temporary Administrative Aide, whose 
position had been created in December 2012 solely to assist Chief Senecal with his duties. Once 
it was apparent that the Board and Chief Senecal would agree to a period of administrative leave, 
Mr. Creamer raised the issue of the status of this position. After a brief discussion, the Board 
voted to rescind the position. 
On May 6, 2013, the Board received an Open Meeting Law complaint about the vote 
taken regarding the Temporary Administrative Aide. Accordingly, the Board convened in open 
session on May 22, 2013 to discuss the complaint and to "[cjonsider whether there is a 
continuing need for the position of Temporary Administrative Aide to the Fire Chief and 
possible elimination of the position," as stated in the meeting notice. The Board discussed the 
history of the creation of the temporary position and the vote taken in executive session on April 
22, 2013. The Board approved a motion to respond to the complaint with certain findings, 
including its belief that its executive session discussion was appropriate because it was "directly 
related to the Board's vote.. .to place the Fire Chief on paid administrative leave;" and even if it 
was inappropriate, the Board "either ratified or rescinded" any improper action by discussing the 
issue at this subsequent meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)(l)("Purpose 1"). The Board's 
discussion about Chief Senecal generally fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 
1, as it related to resolving a complaint against, and subsequent discipline of, a public officer. 
See OML 2013-57. However, the Board's discussion of and action taken concerning the 
Temporary Administrative Aide position was inappropriate for executive session. This 
discussion was distinct from the topic for which the Board convened in executive session. The 
conversation concerned whether a position that was created to support the Chief in his duties was 
1 On the day of the meeting, the Board appropriately revised its meeting notice to include the location of the 
meeting, which had been omitted from the original notice, as well as an additional topic, "Open Session." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
still necessary once Chief Senecal was placed on leave. It did not concern the discipline or 
dismissal of the Chief, nor did it involve complaints or charges against the individual in the 
Temporary Administrative Aide position. The discussion was not appropriate under any 
executive session purpose, and therefore should have occurred in a properly posted open session. 
While we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, the Board took appropriate 
remedial action when it reconsidered and took independent action on the topic at a properly 
posted meeting on May 22, 2013. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 
Mass.App.Ct. 119, 125 (2000), citing Tolar v. School Bd. of Liberty Countv. 398 So.2d 427, 429 
(Fla. 1981) (In order to cure a violation, the public body must take an independent, deliberative 
action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial acceptance or perfunctory ratification of a secret 
decision). In the interest of transparency, the Board should have also released the portion of its 
April 22, 2013 executive session minutes that was not appropriate for discussion in executive 
session, unless the attorney/client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. 
Accordingly, we find that the remedial action taken was not wholly sufficient. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board discussed a topic that was 
inappropriate for executive session. We commend the Board's efforts to address this violation, 
but find the remedial action taken was not wholly sufficient. Accordingly, we order the Board to 
release the portion of the April 22, 2013 executive session minutes that was not appropriate for 
discussion in executive session, unless the attorney/client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law applies. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
cc: Gerard Russell, Worcester Telegram & Gazette 
Sturbridge Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 