===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 10, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 103 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jacqueline Weisman 
Chair, Easton School Committee  
jweisman@easton.k12.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Weisman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 27, 2026,
1 alleging that 
the Easton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 10, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 26. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee received only one recommended candidate to interview for the position of School 
Superintendent.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the minutes of meetings 
the Committee held on January 8, January 29, and February 12.
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated 
in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is 
Purpose 8, which permits a preliminary screening committee to meet in executive session “[t]o 
consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment […] provided, however, that 
this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening 
committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). 
 
1 All dates are in 2026 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The original complaint filed with the Committee also alleged that the Committee held a meeting on February 27 
without proper notice. However, the complainant withdrew this allegation in the request for further review. 
3 Minutes of the Committee may be found here (https://eastontownma.documents-on-demand.com). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Law defines “Preliminary Screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants 
conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing 
to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as 
consideration of written applications or resumes, selection of some for further consideration, and 
interviews for the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists to be 
considered by the full body in open session. See OML 2024-30; OML 2020-147; OML 2018-
142.4 Once an applicant has passed a preliminary screening and been referred to the full public 
body as a finalist, all further consideration of the applicant must occur in open session. See OML 
2012-11. The Open Meeting Law allows a preliminary screening committee to convene in 
executive session only for the purpose of selecting multiple finalists to forward to the parent 
body, not to make the ultimate selection, and therefore a screening committee meeting in 
executive session must identify more than one finalist for further consideration. See OML 2025-
80; OML 2018-142. 
 
During its meeting on January 8, the Committee voted to establish the Superintendent 
Advisory Committee (“the Subcommittee”). The Subcommittee was charged with aiding in the 
search for a new Superintendent, and developing a profile for a new Superintendent. The 
Committee formally appointed the members of the Subcommittee on January 29, and the 
Subcommittee met for the first time on February 3. After interviewing the internal candidate, 
Crissy Pruitt,
5 in open session on February 11, the Subcommittee unanimously recommended 
Ms. Pruitt to be interviewed by the full Committee. 
 
The complaint does not allege that the Committee improperly met in executive session. 
Indeed, neither the Committee nor the Subcommittee met in executive session while conducting 
the Superintendent hiring process. Rather, the complaint alleges that the Committee was required 
to conduct final interviews of at least two candidates and failed to do so. As explained above, the 
Open Meeting Law places restrictions on when a preliminary screening committee may enter 
executive session under Purpose 8; it may do so only to conduct a preliminary, rather than final, 
selection process. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 21(a)(8); see also OML 2025-80; OML 2018-142. 
However, the Open Meeting Law places no such limits on the selection process when it is 
conducted in open session. Here, where the Committee and the Subcommittee only met in open 
session while conducting the Superintendent selection process, the limitations of Purpose 8 were 
inapplicable. We therefore find that neither the Subcommittee nor the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law, as alleged by the complainant.
6 
 
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
5 Ms. Pruitt had been serving as the Assistant Superintendent before her promotion to Superintendent. 
6 In addition to the reasons discussed above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law here, as this complaint 
was only filed with the Committee, rather than the Subcommittee. Even when a preliminary screening committee, 
meeting in executive session, recommends only one candidate, it is the screening committee, rather than the parent 
body, that has violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2025-80; OML 2018-142. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the above reasons, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by receiving only one final applicant for the School Superintendent position. We now consider 
this matter closed. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 Easton Town Clerk (via email: townc
 lerksoffice@easton.ma.us) 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
