===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 29, 2016 
OML 2016-162 
Layla Taylor, Esq. 
Sullivan, Hayes & Quinn, LLC 
One Monarch Place, Suite 1200 
Springfield, MA 01144 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Taylor: 
On August 8, this office received a complaint from Attorney Robert Leonard on behalf 
of Wayne Doerpholz, alleging that the South Hadley Electric Light Department Board of 
Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Mr. 
Doerpholz originally filed the complaint with the Board on or about June 28, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter, dated August 19, after prompting by our office. 
In his complaint, Mr. Doerpholz alleges that the Board held an improper emergency meeting 
on June 2. Additionally, Mr. Doerpholz alleges that, during this meeting, the Board failed to 
follow the proper procedures for convening an executive session. Finally, Mr. Doerpholz 
alleges that the Board may have deliberated about his employment contract "during a prior 
Board meeting for which notice was never given." 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding an improper emergency meeting and by failing to properly respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint. We find no evidence, however, that the Board violated the law in 
the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open and executive session minutes from 
the Board's June 2 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. Mr. Doerpholz was the manager of the Light Department 
until May 31, 2016, when his employment contract expired. Prior to this, he had worked for 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise noted. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
the Light Department for decades. In October 2015, the Board had placed him on paid 
administrative leave after a former Light Department employee filed a federal whistleblower 
lawsuit against Mr. Doerpholz and the Board. Then on February 26, the Board advised Mr. 
Doerpholz that it would not renew his employment contract. Subsequently, the Board and 
Mr. Doerpholz discussed how the Board would compensate Mr. Doerpholz for his unused 
leave time upon the expiration of his contract. Mr. Doerpholz contended that the Board owed 
him a payout of approximately $476,000 at the expiration of his contract. Based on its 
communications with Mr. Doerpholz, the Board had reason to believe that Mr. Doerpholz 
would file suit concerning the interpretation of his employment contract. Indeed, Mr. 
Doerpholz filed such a suit in Hampshire Superior Court on May 26, which he served on the 
Board on August 15. 
In early 2016, the Inspector General (the "IG") commenced an investigation into the 
Light Department's finances, which included a review of Mr. Doerpholz's contract and 
whether payment of the compensation for unused leave time to which he claimed entitlement 
was permissible under Massachusetts law. On May 19, Mr. Doerpholz sent a letter to the 
Board, stating that, pursuant to his contract, he would remain on the payroll until all of the 
accumulated leave pay was exhausted. The Board did not discuss this letter during a meeting 
or otherwise. On Tuesday, May 31, approximately one hour before the close of business on 
the last day of Mr. Doerpholz's contract, the IG issued his report. This report concluded that, 
based on the employment contract and Massachusetts law, Mr. Doerpholz was entitled to a 
maximum of $15,000 for unused leave time. Board Chair Anne Awad asked a Department 
staff member to distribute this report to the rest of the Board by email on that day. Chair 
Awad also decided, with the advice of Board counsel, to keep Mr. Doerpholz on the 
Department payroll until June 3 to allow the Board time to meet and discuss Mr, Doerpholz's 
payout in light of the IG's report. 
On Wednesday, June 1, our office issued a determination, OML 2016-70, finding that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding an improper emergency meeting and by 
failing to provide sufficient detail about executive session topics and mailed it to the Board's 
counsel by certified mail. The Board received our determination on Friday, June 3. On 
Thursday, June 2, the Board had posted notice of an emergency meeting scheduled for 5 PM 
that day to discuss the Inspector General's report and the threat of a possible lawsuit to be 
brought by Mr. Doerpholz. The notice included a heading with the following: "The Board 
will need to vote to go into Executive Session in order to discuss litigation strategy which 
would harm the board's position if discussed in open session. The waiver of posting time is 
needed in order to address a time-sensitive legal issue." Below this, the notice listed the sole 
topic as "Litigation Strategy." 
During the meeting, the Board first convened in open session and voted by roll call to 
convene in executive session "for the purposes of litigation strategy and to comply with or act 
under the directive of a regulatory agency because to do so in Open Session would be harmful 
to the Department, and to not return to Open Session following the end of Executive Session." 
During the executive session, the Board discussed the IG's report, as described in open 
session. The Board convened this meeting under the impression that its decision regarding 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Doerpholz's payout could reasonably lead to a lawsuit.2 As a result of this meeting, in a 
letter dated June 2, the Board responded to Mr. Doerpholz's payout request, advising him that 
it would rely on the IG's report and would thus provide him with a payout of approximately 
$11,000. 
Mr. Doerpholz then filed this Open Meeting Law complaint on June 28. Upon 
receiving this complaint, the Board did not respond until August 19, and only after prompting 
by our office. Even then, the Board did not discuss the complaint prior to its response, which 
was submitted by counsel on its behalf. In responding to two previous complaints that Mr. 
Doerpholz had filed with the Board on November 5, 2015 and April 25, 2016, respectively, 
the Board never discussed the complaints or its response prior to sending its responses months 
later, on January 14, 2016 and June 17, 2016, respectively. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, "except in an 
emergency...a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). In case of 
an emergency, the public body should post notice of the meeting as soon as reasonably 
possible. Id An "emergency" is defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or 
set of circumstances demanding immediate action." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The burden of 
justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies with the public body. See OML 2012-7; 
OML 2010-6.3 
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
has voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member to do so is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive 
session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects that 
may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attornev for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass, 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement 
of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law 
because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper."). This level of detail about the executive session topic should also be 
included in the meeting notice. See G.L, c. 30A, § 20(b). One purpose allows a public body 
2 In fact, Mr. Doerpholz had filed suit on May 26 but had not yet served the Board, This suit is currently 
pending in Hampshire Superior Court, Doerpholz v. Town of South Hadlev Municipal Light Board, et al.. Civil 
Action No. 16-CV-0080. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www,mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
We find that the Board did not provide a valid justification to conduct its June 2 
meeting as an emergency meeting. The Board contends that it did not receive the IG's report 
until the end of the day on Tuesday, May 31, the same day that Mr. Doerpholz's contract was 
set to expire. However, although the Board received the report during business hours on 
Tuesday, it decided to wait until Thursday, June 2, at 5 PM to convene the meeting. Because 
the matter did not demand immediate action, it did not qualify as an "emergency," as defined 
in the law. Where a public body has at least 48 hours' notice of circumstances that are likely 
to require deliberation, an emergency meeting is not warranted. See OML 2016-70; OML 
2011-45. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and 
require an immediate response to, for example, protect public safety or health. Id. 
Accordingly, the meeting was improper because the Board did not post notice of it at least 48 
hours in advance, even though it could have done so. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). As a result, 
the Board may not continue to withhold the executive session minutes under the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld 
from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an 
executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law)\ OML 2016-121; OML 2014-30. The Board may continue to withhold the 
minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any applicable exemptions to the 
Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. 
We now address the remaining allegations in the complaint. The Board did follow 
proper procedures for convening in executive session. The Board began the meeting in open 
session, described the purpose for the executive session, and approved the executive session 
by roll call vote. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Additionally, the Board's executive session 
discussion could have been properly held under Purpose 3, had the Board given the public at 
least 48 hours' notice of this meeting. In order to invoke Purpose 3, litigation must be 
pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See 
Perrvman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2016-
12. Based on the circumstances and the Board's communications with Mr. Doerpholz leading 
up to this meeting, it appears that the Board had a good faith basis to believe that its actions 
with respect to Mr. Doerpholz's payroll would imminently lead to litigation. Indeed, this 
belief was correct as Mr. Doerpholz had already filed suit in court, although the Board was 
not yet aware of it. Based on the circumstances, the Board was not required to provide the 
public with any additional detail about the anticipated lawsuit, either on the notice or in the 
announcement in open session, because such disclosure might compromise its litigating 
position in this instance. See OML 2016-12. Additionally, we find no evidence that the 
Board discussed Mr. Doerpholz's May 19 letter requesting to remain on the payroll until all 
sick and vacation pay is exhausted, either during another meeting or otherwise. Rather, the 
Board relied on the IG's report to issue the total accrued leave in accordance with the 
employment contract. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
While we find that the Board's violations are similar to those in our prior 
determination, OML 2016-70, we decline to find an intentional violation because the Board 
did not receive the decision until a day after the improper emergency meeting. See OML 
2016-80. However, the Board has demonstrated a pattern of failing to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law's requirements for responding to complaints. See OML 2016-70 and OML 
2016-161. Lhe Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days after receiving a 
complaint the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of 
any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Board never 
discussed this complaint and waited two months to respond, despite having received our 
reminder in OML 2016-70 about the law's requirements. Because the Board has repeatedly 
failed to follow the proper procedure for timely responding to Open Meeting Law complaints, 
we find that the Board violated the law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by holding an improper emergency meeting and by failing to properly respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board to release to the public 
the Board's June 2 executive session minutes in accordance with the above guidance. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Leonard, Esq. 
South Hadley Electric Light Department Board of Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 