===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 45 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
James Mercer, Chair  
Board of Commissioners 
Great Barrington Housing Authority  
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Mercer: 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on September 8, 2020, alleging 
that the Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
June 18.1 The Board responded by email dated August 24.2 Ms. Mooney alleges that the Board 
discussed a matter in executive session on May 21 that was not appropriate for executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters in executive session that did not fall within any of the ten enumerated 
purposes for which executive session is permitted. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s request 
for further review. We also reviewed executive session minutes of the Board’s May 21 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. Therefore, a 
quorum is three members. The complainant is a member of the Board. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We remind the Board of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days of 
receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 21. The notice included 
the topic “Executive Session under MGL c. 30A, §21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel (Executive Director).” The May 21 meeting was held as planned, with four 
Board members participating remotely via a conference line. The Board voted to convene in 
executive session “under MGL c. 30A, §21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel (Executive Director).” In executive session, Chair Mercer recapped the steps of the 
process for the annual review of the Board’s Executive Director thus far, which included 
conducting peer, Board and tenant evaluations. A Board member, Cara Becker, had collected and 
summarized the evaluations, and the summary was then distributed to all Board members via 
email ahead of the May 21 meeting. At the meeting, Ms. Mooney expressed concern that the 
Board’s discussion of the executive director’s annual evaluations should take place in an open 
meeting, and that the executive session was improper. After Chair Mercer stated that he believed 
the executive session was proper, Ms. Mooney objected again and then left the meeting.  
 The remaining three members of the Board continued the executive session in Ms. 
Mooney’s absence. First, Ms. Becker stated that she was “confident in renewing” the executive 
director’s contract as both the peer and tenant evaluations were generally “glowing.” Another 
Board member, Marie Ryan, agreed. Ms. Becker then suggested that the Board could provide 
some goals for the Executive Director to work on in the coming year. She further stated that the 
Executive Director was on the “right track” with leading the Housing Authority. Chair Mercer 
and Ms. Ryan agreed with her assessment. The three Board members then voted unanimously to 
adjourn the executive session.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 Ms. Mooney alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session on May 21 
to discuss employee evaluations of the Board’s Executive Director. The Open Meeting Law was 
enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which 
public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The 
Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to 
members of the public unless an executive session is convened for one of the enumerated 
permitted purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  
 A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94. Before entering the executive session, the 
chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
proper or improper”). This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be included 
in the meeting notice. See OML 2016-72.  
 One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). A public body may not discuss an individual’s professional competence in executive 
session. See District Attorney for the North District v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 
561, 568 (2009) (although it is clear that professional competence must first be discussed in an 
open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be 
a suitable discussion for an executive session); OML 2019-57.3 
 Here, during the May 21 executive session, the Board reviewed the evaluation process to 
date, which was not a permissible topic for executive session. See OML 2019-57. The Board also 
discussed the Executive Director’s professional competence with comments about the generally 
“glowing” evaluations and the Executive Director being on the “right track.” This is also an 
impermissible topic for executive session. See OML 2018-38 (“Performance evaluations and 
discussions of an employee’s professional competence must occur in open session.”). We 
therefore find that the Board discussed topics in executive session that did not fall within 
Purpose 2 or any of the ten enumerated purposes for executive session. G. L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
Thus, the Board violated the Law.  
 Finally, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id.  
 On May 23, 2019, just one year prior to the violation we find here, we found that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing topics in executive session, purportedly 
under Purpose 2, which were not appropriate for executive session. See OML 2019-57. In that 
determination, we specifically advised that “[a] public body may not discuss an individual’s 
professional competence in executive session.” Two of the Board members who participated in 
the May 21 executive session were members of the Board at the time we issued OML 2019-57, 
and the third member, like all members, was required to certify that they reviewed each Open 
Meeting Law determination issued to the Board by the Attorney General within the last five 
years in which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See 940 CMR 
29.04. For these reasons, we conclude that the three Board members who participated in the May 
21 executive session had been previously advised by our office that the topics they discussed 
were improper for executive session. In addition, Ms. Mooney informed the Board at the start of 
the executive session that the topic to be discussed was improper for executive session. See OML 
2016-69. We therefore find the Board’s violation to be intentional. 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing topics in executive session that did not fall within a proper executive session purpose. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution 
the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law, and may result in a civil penalty 
of up to $1,000 per violation.  
 In light of our finding of an intentional violation, we order all members of the Board who 
participated in the improper executive session, and who are still serving on the Board, to attend 
an Open Meeting Law webinar training provided by our office within ninety (90) days of the 
Board’s receipt of this letter. We also order the Board to certify to our office that these same 
Board members have completed the webinar training within ninety-five (95) days of the 
Board’s receipt of this letter. As the Board has already released the May 21 executive session 
minutes to the public, we order no further relief.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Eileen Mooney (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
