===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 5, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 167 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq.  
Howard L. Greenspan, Attorney at Law  
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com 
 
James Donnelly, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
jdonnelly@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open
  Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Greenspan and Donnelly: 
 
This office received two complaints
1 from Bruce Freedman alleging that the Malden 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about January 16, 2024. By letter 
dated February 16, 2024, Attorney Greenspan responded to the two complaints on behalf of the 
Committee. By letters dated February 20, 2024, Attorney Donnelly also responded to the two 
complaints on behalf of the Committee.
2 We understand Complaint 1 to allege that the notice 
topics and announcements for the Committee’s November 13 and December 4, 2023, executive 
session discussions related to the Superintendent’s contract were insufficient where they did not 
indicate that the Committee may reach a final decision regarding the renewal of the 
 
1 Between February and May of 2024, the Complainant filed 22 Open Meeting Law complaints with our office 
alleging that the Malden School Committee or its Superintendent Search Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. The Complainant numbered all but one of the complaints when filing the complaints with our office for further 
review. This determination resolves complaints numbered 1 and 2, which we refer to as “Complaint 1” and 
“Complaint 2” throughout the determination. The Complainant also filed a complaint which he numbered 6, but 
which is identical to Complaint 2.  
2 Both Attorney Greenspan and Attorney Donnelly requested and were granted extensions of time to respond to the 
complaints. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Superintendent’s contract.3,4 We understand Complaint 2 to allege that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law during its January 8, 2024, meeting when Mayor Gary Christenson, who 
acts as the Committee’s chair, announced that the Superintendent’s contract would not be 
renewed without that topic having been included on the meeting notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to its November 13 and December 4, 2023, executive session discussions regarding 
the Superintendent’s contract. We find that the Committee did violate the Open Meeting Law 
when Mayor Christenson announced that the Superintendent’s contract would not be renewed 
without that topic having been included on the notice for the Committee’s January 8, 2024, 
meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
Committee’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed notices for the 
Committee’s meetings held on November 13 and December 4, 2023, and January 8, 2024, as 
well as portions of video recordings of each meeting.
5 Finally, we communicated with Attorney 
Donnelly via email and telephone.  
 
FACTS  
 
The complaints relate to the Committee’s decision not to renew the contract of 
Superintendent of Schools Ligia Noriega-Murphy, which was set to expire on June 30, 2024. The 
Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 13, 2023. Included on the notice 
was the following executive session topic: “Purpose 2 - To conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for contract negotiations with Non-Union Personnel - Superintendent of Schools, Dr. 
Noriega-Murphy, because an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position and the chair so declares.” At the beginning of the November 13, 2023, meeting, Mayor 
Gary Christenson, who acts as chair of the Committee, reviewed the topics that would be 
covered during the meeting, including by announcing that the Committee would convene in 
executive session to, among other things, “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for contract 
negotiations with the Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Murphy.”  
 
During the executive session the Committee discussed, with Attorney Greenspan, the 
upcoming date by which Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract would expire if not renewed 
and the need to provide notice to Superintendent Noriega-Murphy regarding renewal or 
nonrenewal of the contract. After some discussion, the Committee decided to table the 
conversation until its next meeting which was scheduled for December 4, 2023.  
 
 
3 The requests for further review raise additional allegations. We decline to review allegations that were not first 
raised in a complaint filed with the public body. See OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development 
Committee); OML 2020-3; OML 2021-99, n. 2. 
4 Complaint 2 also asserts that “the public was never allowed to participate in the issue” of the renewal or 
nonrenewal of the Superintendent’s contract. To the extent this was intended as an additional allegation, we decline 
to review it where, even if true, it would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(g); OML Declination 10/5/2021 (Westminster Planning Board), n.2; OML 2023-230. 
5 A video recording of the Committee’s November 13, 2023, meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/live/IXmYyupuEvE. A video recording of the Committee’s December 4, 2023, meeting 
may be found at https://www.youtube.com/live/ZHt44I6AgN4. A video recording of the Committee’s January 8, 
2024, meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/live/l5aIXFpThJE. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 4, 2023. Included on 
the notice was the following executive session topic: “Purpose 2 - To conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for contract negotiations with Non-Union Personnel - Superintendent of Schools, 
Dr. Noriega-Murphy, because an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position and the chair so declares.” At the beginning of the December 4, 2023, meeting, Mayor 
Christenson again reviewed the topics that would be covered during the meeting, including by 
announcing that the Committee would convene in executive session to, among other things, 
“conduct strategy sessions in preparation for contract negotiations with the Superintendent of 
Schools.”  
 
During the executive session the Committee discussed whether to renew Superintendent 
Noriega-Murphy’s contract. Ultimately, a motion was made to renew Superintendent Noriega-
Murphy’s contract and the motion failed. The Committee then reconvened briefly in open 
session and voted on a motion related to another matter discussed in executive session. The 
Committee did not announce that a vote to renew Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract had 
failed. 
  
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 8, 2024. The notice 
included, among others, the topic “Personal Privilege.” The notice did not include a topic 
regarding Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract. Under the topic “Personal Privilege,” 
Mayor Christenson stated that he wanted to end the meeting with an important announcement. 
He then explained that after the Committee’s last meeting, he and Vice Chair Jennifer Spadafora 
met with Superintendent Noriega-Murphy and agreed to work together on a transition to a new 
superintendent at the end of the school year.  
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
d
eliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that, except 
in an emergency, notice be posted for every meeting of a public body “at least 48 hours prior to 
the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice 
must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual 
responsible for creating the meeting notice, anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206.6 The topics for discussion must be listed with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the 
discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all 
tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the Law require a public body to anticipate the 
course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-127; OML 2020-53; OML 2021-22. We have explained that, in general, 
it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following 
discussion of a topic listed on the meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that 
 
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-me eting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the notice specifically indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML  2022-239; OML 2021-153; 
OML 2015-66. 
 
In addition to requiring that notice be posted for every meeting, the Open Meeting Law 
also r
equires that all meetings of a public body be open to the public, unless a lawful executive 
session has been convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Public bodies may enter executive session 
for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the 
only notification given the public that [a public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”). When 
convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the specific 
nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion, unless disclosure would compromise the 
public body’s negotiating position. See OML 2022-29; OML 2021-187; OML 2020-50; OML 
2015-193. 
 
Fir
st, we address the allegation that the notice topics and announcements for the 
Committee’s November 13 and December 4, 2023, executive session discussions of 
Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract were insufficient where they did not indicate that the 
Committee may reach a final decision regarding the Superintendent’s contract.7 During the 
November 13 and December 4 executive sessions the Committee discussed matters that were 
appropriate for executive session under Purpose 2 and which related to Superintendent Noriega-
Murphy’s contract. See OML 2013-184; OML 2021-5; OML 2021-125. The notices and 
announcements for these executive session discussions were sufficient where they clearly 
identified the executive session purpose the Committee relied on and where they identified the 
specific nonunion personnel that was the subject of the discussions. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in Complaint 1.  
 
 Ne
xt, we turn to the allegation in Complaint 2 that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law during its January 8, 2024, meeting when Mayor Christenson announced that 
Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract would not be renewed without that topic having been 
included on the meeting notice. The Committee does not assert that the announcement was 
unanticipated. Instead, the Committee’s initial response asserts that because Mayor Christenson 
did not anticipate that his announcement regarding the nonrenewal of Superintendent Noriega-
Murphy’s contract would result in a discussion among the Committee members, which indeed it 
did not, it was not required to be included on the meeting notice. In its second response to the 
complaint, the Committee acknowledges that the announcement regarding “the transition to a 
new Superintendent was not properly noticed.”  
 
7 To the extent Complaint 1 alleges that the Committee was required to announce in open session following the 
executive session that a vote to renew Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract had failed, we note that the Open 
Meeting Law contains no such requirement. See OML 2021-5; OML 2021-125. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
We have previously stated that “where a public body does not actually engage in any 
deli
beration on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice.” See OML 2019-94 (finding no deliberation occurred where 
the superintendent gave a report and no members of the committee discussed or otherwise 
responded to the superintendent’s report); OML 2020-41; OML 2021-43 (finding no violation 
with respect to the sufficiency of the notice where the chair read the town administrator’s memo 
aloud and “[n]o Board member, including the Chair, shared any comments or asked any 
questions about the memo . . . .”). However, we have also explained that a one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum regarding business within the body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2023-
65. Specifically, we have said that a one-way factual statement, when made between or among a 
quorum of a public body, constitutes deliberation within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law, 
see OML 2017-110, and that “[a]n anticipated report to the public body is a topic that ‘will be 
discussed’ at a meeting . . . .” OML 2016-13. Because Mayor Christenson, as chair, anticipated 
that he would discuss the nonrenewal of Superintendent Noriega-Murphy’s contract during the 
January 8, 2024, meeting—a topic of substantial interest, on which the public body had reached a 
decision in executive session—the topic should have been included on the meeting notice. See 
OML 2024-74; OML 2021-121. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when Mayor Christenson announced during the January 8, 2024, meeting that the 
Superintendent’s contract would not be renewed without including this topic on the meeting 
notice. We find that the Committee did not otherwise violate the Law as alleged. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that 
future findings of similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
Because the minutes and video recording of the Committee’s January 8, 2024, meeting are 
available to the public online, we do not order any additional remedial action.  
 
  
===PAGE 6===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc:
Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee
(via email: mayor@cityotmalden.org)
Carol Ann Desiderio, Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org)
Bruce Friedman, OpenCommonwealth.org (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6