===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 10, 2015 
OML 2015-92 
Lurleen Gannon 
Acting First Deputy General Counsel 
MassDOT 
10 Park Plaza 
Boston, MA 02116 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gannon: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Staci Rubin, dated March 4, 2015, 
alleging that the Massachusetts Department of Transportation ("MassDOT") Board of Directors 
(the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on January 9, 2015. After Attorney Rubin filed a request for 
further review with our office, the Board responded by letter dated April 3, 2015. In her 
complaint, Attorney Rubin alleges that the Board failed to admit members of the public to an 
open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. Finally, we spoke with legal counsel for the 
Board and the complainant. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Attorney Rubin was a staff member of Alternatives for 
Community & Environment ("ACE"), a not-for-profit organization that advocates for low-
income communities.1 The Board was scheduled to hold a meeting on December 11, 2014 at the 
MassDOT offices located at 10 Park Plaza in Boston. At this meeting, the Board was scheduled 
to discuss the "Youth Pass" program, a subsidized transit program that was of concern to ACE 
constituents. 
On September 24, 2014, the ACE Political Director sent an e-mail to the Board's 
Recording Secretary stating that ACE anticipated that as many as 100 community stakeholders 
wanted to attend the December 11, 2014 meeting, and requesting that the meeting be held in a 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Attorney Rubin has since left the organization. 
===PAGE 2===
large enough space to accommodate the anticipated crowd. On September 25, 2014, the 
Recording Secretary responded by telephone, stating that no larger rooms were available at that 
time. On December 9, 2014, the ACE Political Director e-mailed the Recording Secretary again, 
requesting that the Board create an overflow room where attendees who could not be 
accommodated in the main meeting room could witness the deliberations. Owen Kane, Senior 
Counsel to the Board, responded by e-mail on December 10, 2014, stating, in part, "Tomorrow's 
Board meeting will be held in the Board Room on the 3 rd floor. I understand that there may be a 
large crowd there in support of the Pilot Programs but I believe that the room can 
accommodate." The Board Room typically accommodates approximately 100 people. 
On the morning of December 11, 2014, ACE community members began arriving at 10 
Park Plaza approximately three hours before the meeting. While 100 had been expected, 
approximately 60 community members were present.2 The relevant policy for admission to 10 
Park Plaza is as follows; "All visitors seeking entrance to the east and west wings of the 
building.. .must check in with the information booth officer and present a valid picture ID that 
includes an expiration date." The policy goes on to state that visitors who do not have a valid ID 
will not be granted access to the building.3 MassDOT's legal counsel stated to our office that all 
people under the age of 18 must be accompanied by an adult.4 When the ACE group arrived, 
building personnel stated that the room was crowded and that the number of people admitted 
would be limited. Of the 60 community members present, five were turned away for issues 
relating to their ages and the validity of their IDs.5 Forty ACE community members gained 
access to the meeting room, once members of the Massachusetts Senior Action Council left to 
make room for the community members. The remaining fifteen community members could not 
be accommodated in the meeting room and did not witness the deliberations at all. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. 
As an initial matter, the complainant alleges that the policy requiring that members of the 
public present a photo ID with an expiration date in order to access a meeting of the Board 
violates the Open Meeting Law. We conclude that it does not. While we have stated in the past 
that public bodies must hold meetings in locations that do not discourage public attendance, see 
2 The request for further review filed with our office stated that the number of ACE community members was closer 
to 80 people. The revised estimation of 60 people was provided by ACE's interim legal counsel on June 30, 2015. 
3 This policy was put in place by the Division of Capital Asset Management and Maintenance ("DCAMM"). 
DCAMM is a state agency that manages the 10 Park Plaza building. DCAMM instituted the policy at issue due to 
security concerns. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
5 Two people had student IDs that were past their printed expiration date. Another individual had a student ID with 
no printed expiration date. Two people had valid students IDs but were turned away because they were under 18 
years old and were told they needed to be accompanied by an adult. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
OML 2012-66, a public body must also be able to take reasonable steps to ensure the safety and 
good order of public meetings. For example, the chair of a public body has the discretion to limit 
public participation during meetings, and to remove disruptive members of the public. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2012-13; OML 2011-6, Further, we note that security policies similar to 
the one at issue here, such as requiring that minors be accompanied by adults, are standard at 
many government and private buildings. If such policies violated the Open Meeting Law, many 
public bodies would be obligated to rent space for their meetings in venues other than their usual 
places of business. We conclude that the law does not impose such a burden. Here, the need for 
daily security at the MassDOT offices justified the admission policy, and we therefore find that 
the ID policy at issue does not violate the Open Meeting Law.6 
Despite the foregoing, we share the complainant's concerns about the exclusion of 
interested members of the public simply because they lack a dated photo ID. Certain groups may 
be uniquely interested in attending deliberations that directly affect them, yet those same groups 
may be burdened by restrictions like the one at issue here. While we do not believe this to be the 
case here, we note that security policies may not be used as a pretext for unlawfully excluding 
certain members of the public from open meetings. This office looks at such restrictions with a 
critical eye and we generally discourage any policy that excludes interested members of the 
public. While the policy at issue here does not rise to the level of an Open Meeting Law 
violation, we remind the Board of its obligation to take reasonable steps to accommodate 
members of the public. 
We next address whether the Board satisfactorily attempted to accommodate the 
anticipated crowds on the date at issue. Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations 
for overflow crowds. See OML 2012-66. When a public body is informed in advance that a 
meeting is expected to draw a particularly large crowd, that body should make reasonable efforts 
to accommodate all people who wish to witness the discussion. Here, the ACE Political Director 
informed the Board, via its secretary, that a large number of people planned to attend the 
meeting. At that time, there was no larger space available for the meeting to be conducted. The 
day before the meeting, Attorney Kane stated that he believed that the Board Room could 
accommodate the anticipated crowd. We find that, by holding its meeting in the largest space 
available, which it reasonably believed could accommodate the expected crowd, the Board 
complied with the Open Meeting Law. 
As a final matter, we note that the Board failed to respond to Ms. Rubin's Open Meeting 
Law complaint until an investigation was undertaken by this office. We remind the Board that, 
unless an extension of time has been requested, a public body must send a copy of the complaint 
to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action 
taken within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint. G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
6 Where, as was the case here, a body has knowledge that members of the public will need to show a dated photo ID 
in order to enter the meeting location, we suggest that such information be included on the meeting notice. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Richard Juang, Esq., Interim Staff Attorney, Alternatives for Community & Environment 
MassDOT Board of Directors 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 