===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. m ass. go v/ago
December 14, 2018 
OML 2018-156
Jessica Magelaner 
Library Director 
Wheeler Memorial Library 
49 East Main Street 
Orange, MA 01364
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Magelaner:
This office received a complaint from Robert Stack on January 25, 2017 alleging that the 
Orange Library Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on December 14, 2016; 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated January 5, 2017. The complaint 
alleges that the Committee failed to post notice of meetings and failed to keep minutes, and 
further alleges that Committee members were not sworn in.1
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of 
meetings held between August and November 2016 and by failing to keep minutes of those 
meetings. We also find that Committee members violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
complete the Certificate of Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials form within two weeks of 
qualification of office. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed notices of, and open session minutes from, meetings of the Orange 
Library Trustees (“Trustees”) held between February 2015 and August 2016; and the minutes 
from the Committee’s November 28, 2016 meeting.2
1 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any 
potential bidding process violations raised in the complaint.
2 Starting on February 17, 2017, our office made several requests for minutes of Committee meetings held between 
August and November 2016. The Committee responded with only the November 28, 2016 meeting minutes. We 
therefore relied significantly on materials that could be found on the Orange municipal website and the Wheeler 
Memorial Library website as well as materials provided to us by Mr. Stack, to assist us in resolving this complaint. 
We remind the Committee that “[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other state,

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Beginning around February 2015, the Trustees began 
discussing the possible expansion of the Wheeler Memorial Library. On August 17, 2016, the 
Trustees created the Committee of six members to oversee the application process for a grant to 
fond an expansion of the Wheeler Memorial Library. Members of the Committee included 
Library Director Jessica Magelaner, three Trustees, and two members of the community.3
The Committee met approximately twelve times between August 2016 and mid- 
November 2016. The Committee did not post notice of any of those meetings, nor did it create 
minutes for those meetings. Committee members also did not complete the Certificate of 
Receipt of Open Meeting Law Materials until late November 2016. Beginning on November 28, 
2016, the Committee began posting notice for and creating minutes of its meetings.
DISCUSSION
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting “at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the 
date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” LI In addition, a 
public body must “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to post notice of, and create minutes for, 
meetings held between its creation and November 28, 2016. The Committee acknowledges that 
it failed to post notice of and create minutes for meetings held between August and November 
2016. We agree and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law because it failed to 
post notice for and maintain minutes of any of its meetings held between August and November 
2016. Although the Committee’s actions were improper, we decline to find an intentional 
violation because they appear to result from a serious misunderstanding of the law’s 
requirements. See OML 2017-40; OML 2016-169.4 We note that the Committee has posted 
notice of its meetings from November 28, 2016 to the present and now appears to be creating 
minutes for those meetings. It is our understanding that the Committee has also completed
regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall 
make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
24(a). A failure to respond to such a request from our office may be considered a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.
3 At least one of the community members was also a library volunteer.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
online training of the Open Meeting Law. We commend the Committee for taking corrective 
action to ensure future compliance with the law.
The complaint also alleges that Committee members were not properly sworn in. While 
the Open Meeting Law does not require that public body members be sworn in to office, it does 
require that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall 
certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting 
law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials 
prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to 
section 19.... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” See 
G.L. c. 30A § 20; OML 2011-39. Here, although members were appointed to the Committee in 
August 2016, they did not complete the certification process until November 2016. As such, we 
find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by not signing the certification form 
within two weeks of qualification for office.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to comply with notice posting requirements, by failing to create minutes, and by 
failing to complete the certification process within two weeks of qualifying for office. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We order the Committee to create minutes for all its meetings held between August and 
November 2016 to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the 
memories and individual notations of the attendees. Compliance with this order should occur 
within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter, and the Committee should certify compliance with 
this order to our office in writing, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4).
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Robert  Stack
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
