===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       November 18 , 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 199 
 
 
Samantha Vasques, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
227 Union Street 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
 
By email only: sam@mtclawyers.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Vasques: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy King on July 27, 2025, alleging that the 
Townsend Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 18, 2025, and you responded 
to the complainant, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 2, 2025.
1  The complaint 
alleges that the notice for the Board meeting held on May 23, 2025, was insufficiently specific 
where it failed to identify the union and nonunion personnel who were the subject of negotiation 
discussions. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting 
held on May 23, 2025, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
2   
 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on May 23, 2025, is available at 
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GQFo26VS8N0.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
May 23, 2025.  The notice listed numerous open session topics, as well as an executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 2 “to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining session or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel (all nonunion personnel),” and pursuant to Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares (all union 
personnel).” 
 
The May 23, 2025, meeting was held as planned.  The Board first convened in open 
session and discussed town meeting warrant articles.  Board Vice Chair Veronica Kell then made 
a motion, which was seconded by Board Member Valerie Goodrich, to enter executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 2 to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel for all nonunion personnel, and pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining for all union personnel as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the bargaining position of the public body.  Vice Chair Kell announced that the Board would 
not reconvene in open session but would adjourn following the conclusion of the executive 
session, and the Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public  bodies must post notice of each meeting “at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We 
generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  
See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.   
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3   
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel” or to “discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a
)(2) (“Purpose 2”), and § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel or 
collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the 
lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-151.   
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the May 23, 2025, 
meeti
ng notice lacked sufficient detail where it did not include the specific nonunion and 
collective bargaining units with whom the Board would be negotiating.  Here, the meeting notice 
stated that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 2 to conduct strategy 
sessions for negotiations with “all nonunion personnel” and under Purpose 3 to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining with “all union personnel” and Vice Chair Kell’s 
announcement stated that the Board would be negotiating with all nonunion and union personnel.  
Our general guidance is that public bodies should identify the specific nonunion or union 
personnel with whom it is negotiating, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement prior 
to the executive session.  See OML 2015-126.  In this instance, however, because the Board 
intended to discuss all nonunion and union personnel during its executive session, it did not need 
to specifically list each and every employee in the topic.  See OML 2020-137; OML 2020-129.  
Accordingly, we find that the notice was sufficiently specific where it specified that all unions 
and nonunion personnel would be discussed, and therefore the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2019-114; OML 2016-32; OML 2015-146.   
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the propriety of 
the B
oard’s May 23, 2025, executive session and the sufficiency of those executive session 
minutes.  We remind the Board that discussions of a more wide-ranging negotiation strategy that 
would reach beyond any one employee or bargaining unit are generally not appropriate for 
executive session as such deliberations are more akin to a budget discussion.  See OML 2015-63; 
OML 2014-30.  With respect to the minutes, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2016-105.  Based on our in camera review of the draft executive session minutes, we note 
that the minutes appear inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law 
where they contain only one paragraph to summarize the Board’s one hour and forty-five minute 
discussion.  We encourage the Board to revise the minutes to include a more sufficiently detailed 
summary of the discussions that occurred during the executive session.   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
     
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cindy King – By email only:  
Townsend Select Board c/o Chair Laura Shifrin – By email only: 
lshifrin@townsendma.gov   
Townsend Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@townsendma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
