===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 1, 2013 
OML 2013 — 39 
Brian E. Allen, General Manager 
Princeton Municipal Light Department 
168 Worcester Road 
P.O. Box 247 
Princeton, MA 01541 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Allen: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Holly Palmgren, dated March 15, 2012, 
alleging that the Princeton Board of Light Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about February 16, 2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated 
March 6, 2012. In her complaint, Ms. Palmgren alleges that the notice posted by the Board prior 
to an open session meeting on February 8, 2012 failed to adequately inform the public of a topic 
for discussion. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during our review. In resolving 
this complaint, we reviewed the February 16, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
March 6, 2012 response; and the March 15, 2012 complaint filed with this office. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's February 8, 2012 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the notice for the Board's February 8, 2012 meeting 
was not sufficiently specific to comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. Starting in 
2001, the Princeton Municipal Light Department (the "PMLD") rented a 1,655 square foot 
portion of its office building, located at 168 Worcester Road in Princeton, Massachusetts, to 
Kate's Powerhouse, a yoga studio. The parties did not sign a lease, and the rental agreement did 
not establish an end date. In November 2011, the Princeton Zoning Board of Appeals notified 
the PMLD that commercial use of building space at 168 Worcester Road violated Town building 
and zoning codes. On January 17, 2012, the PMLD petitioned the Princeton Zoning Board of 
Appeals for a zoning variance, which, if approved, would allow Kate's Powerhouse to continue 
===PAGE 2===
operating at the PMLD's 168 Worcester Road location. The Princeton Zoning Board of Appeals 
scheduled the corresponding public hearing for February 9, 2012. 
The Board posted notice of a 5:00 p.m. February 8, 2012 meeting more than 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. The posted notice included one topic for discussion: "ZBA Application 
Review." On the morning of February 8, 2012, the Board updated the notice to include the 
following sub-topics: "Discuss Related Correspondence and Documentation; Discuss the Feb 9th  
Public Hearing Process; Board Vote (if applicable); Identify Action Items." 
During the meeting, Brian Allen,' in his capacity as General Manager of the PMLD, 
recommended that the Board discontinue renting the space occupied by Kate's Powerhouse. He 
submitted documents to members of the Board and meeting attendees with financial calculations 
to support his recommendation. In his submission, he stated, "I would respectfully request the 
Board of Light Commissioners to withdraw our request for a variance, and based upon the fact 
that we have no occupancy permit for the space utilized by Kate's Powerhouse or written lease 
or agreements with Kate's Powerhouse[,] to end the occupation of the space on or before March 
1, 2012." The Board voted on and unanimously approved Mr. Allen's recommendation to 
withdraw the zoning variance application and discontinue renting the space occupied by Kate's 
Powerhouse. This decision surprised certain members of the public in attendance at the 
Princeton Zoning Board of Appeals hearing the next night. According to the complainant, 
"[T]here is clearly a large town interest in the fate of Kate's Powerhouse, and had the general 
public been made aware of what was to be discussed at the . . . Board [meeting], people would 
have attended." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will be. See OML 2011-7. 2  
The February 8, 2012 meeting notice contained the topic "ZBA Application Review." 
This was not sufficiently specific for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. When planning to 
discuss an application relating to a specific piece of property, public bodies should include 
sufficient information in the meeting notice to identify the property. See OML 2012-2; 2012-52. 
Because the meeting was held for the sole purpose of discussing the rental arrangement at the 
PMLD's 168 Worcester Road location, it is clear that the Board was aware by February 6, 2012 
of exactly which application would be reviewed at the Board's February 8, 2012 meeting. Thus, 
the Chair reasonably anticipated this specific topic more than 48 hours in advance of the 
February 8, 2012 meeting, and the Board should have included the address of the property to be 
discussed. We acknowledge and applaud the Board's efforts to add additional detail, including 
For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
notice of an anticipated vote, to its posted notice on the morning of the February 8, 2012 
meeting. However, the Board's notice was still not sufficiently specific to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. 
As a final matter, we address Mr. Allen's statement in his initial response to the 
complaint, sent by email on February 17, 2012, that the decision to discontinue the rental of 
PMLD space "falls solely upon the General Manager to make." He argues that the Board simply 
affirmed his decision by voting at the February 8, 2012 meeting. The question of decision-
making authority has no bearing on the outcome of this complaint. The Board met and 
deliberated on matters within its jurisdiction, and therefore was required to post adequate notice 
at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 3  
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board's notice for its February 8, 2012 
meeting was not sufficiently specific to comply with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Jo • . than Sclarsie 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Holly Palmgren 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3  We also note that although public bodies may direct individuals to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints on 
their behalf, they must initially review all Open Meeting Law complaints. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We remind the 
Board of its obligation to comply with this requirement. Id.; OML 2012-88. 
3 