===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 13, 2017 
OML 2017-27 
Thomas J. Harrington, Esq. 
Miyares and Harrington LLP 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Harrington: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Alexander, dated December 30, 2016, 
alleging that the Wellesley School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
November 18, 2016, and the Committee responded by letter dated December 8, 2016. In his 
complaint, Mr. Alexander alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting, and failing to create minutes of a meeting.1 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed all documentation 
provided with these filings, including an affidavit of former Committee chair Matthew Kelley, 
dated December 7, 2016. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The complaint concerns a survey that the Committee prepared for 
the purpose of soliciting community feedback regarding the school superintendent. This survey 
1 The request for further review contains allegations that were not included in the original complaint—namely, that 
the Committee failed to make requested meeting minutes available within the time frame required by the Open 
Meeting Law, and the Committee did not meet to review the complaint before responding. Because these 
allegations were not contained in the original complaint filed with the Committee, we do not review them now. See 
OML 2015-43, Fn. 1. Nevertheless, we note that within 14 days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney 
General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 3OA, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). The body must review the complaint before authorizing legal counsel, or any other individual, to respond 
on its behalf. 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML 2015-24. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
was circulated on June 3, 2015. Because few responses were received, Matthew Kelley, who 
was the Committee chair at the time, decided not to include the matter of the survey on a 
Committee agenda for discussion. 
On August 24, 2016, the complainant sent an e-mail to Mr. Kelley asking whether the 
Committee had published the results of the survey. On August 26, 2016, Mr. Kelley responded 
by e-mail, stating, "We didn't ever publish the results of that survey—we ended up not 
sufficiently thinking it was sufficiently useful to move forward with. What we got went to the 
superintendent's personnel file, but we're not planning on doing another survey." 
On October 27, 2016, the complainant requested the minutes of any Committee meeting 
where the survey was discussed. On November 3, 2016, Mr. Kelley responded to this request, 
stating that there were no meeting minutes responsive to the request. The present complaint 
followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the member of the public body. Id Public bodies are required to create and approve accurate 
minutes of all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting 
to discuss the school superintendent survey, and that the Committee failed to create minutes of 
these deliberations. As evidence, the complaint points to Mr. Kelley's August 26, 2016 e-mail 
and his use of "we" when describing the decision not to discuss the survey. In past 
determinations, we have stated that the use of the plural, standing alone, is insufficient to 
establish that improper deliberation took place. See OML 2016-125; OML 2016-27.2 Here, Mr. 
Kelley provided an affidavit stating that he alone made the decision not to add the survey to a 
Committee agenda. We credit this statement, and we find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2016-134. Because no deliberation 
between or among a quorum of the Committee members took place, the Committee was not 
required to create minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Wellesley School Committee 
Ronald Alexander 
Sincerely, 
Mangaharo 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 