===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 20, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 149 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP LAW  
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor  
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received three complaints from Alex Bowman on April 22 and June 1, 2020, 
alleging that the Sandisfield Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on February 17, 
April 14, and April 21, and the Board responded by letters dated March 5, April 27 and May 26.1 
In his complaints, Mr. Bowman alleges that the Board 1) posted insufficiently detailed meeting 
notices, 2) failed to timely respond to a request for open and executive session minutes, and 3) 
created insufficiently detailed meeting minutes.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the 
complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We also reviewed the Board’s 
January 27 open and executive session minutes.   
DISCUSSION 
1. The notices for the Board’s January 27 and April 21 meetings contained insufficient 
detail.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 In addition, we decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were 
not included in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public 
bodies and will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include the 
date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.3 A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice 
if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017- 
2; OML 2013-87. 
 The complaint alleges that several of the Board’s meeting notices were insufficiently 
detailed. We address each in turn. First, as the Board concedes, the topic “contract negotiations” 
as included on the notice for executive session at the Board’s January 27 meeting was 
insufficiently detailed because the Board could have specified that the negotiations pertained to 
the “Town Manager” without compromising the purpose for the executive session. See OML 
2019-118 (“When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public 
body must identify the collective bargaining unit or nonunion personnel with whom it will be 
negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.”). Second, as the 
Board concedes, an item “Selectmen’s updates and Town Manager updates” for the January 27 
meeting was insufficiently detailed where the Chair failed to list specific anticipated updates 
from the Selectmen. See OML 2020-44 (Public body chair must list all topics the chair 
anticipates will be discussed and, as a best practice, should solicit from non-members detail 
regarding the precise matters to be discussed.). Third, we find no violation with respect to the 
item “FY2021 Budget” on the March 18 meeting notice, as the meeting was cancelled. See OML 
2020-53 (“When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body 
cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would have been 
insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation.”). Fourth, the Board 
was not required to list every department that could be affected by “Budget reductions” on the 
notice for the March 25 meeting as the Chair anticipated discussing almost all departments and 
was not required to anticipate the course of the discussion. See OML 2019-26 (“We find that this 
topic, although not specifically listed on the meeting notice, fit within the Board’s larger budget 
discussion, listed on the notice as ‘Budget Review.’”); OML 2014-44 (Public body not required 
to anticipate course of deliberation); OML 2012-83 (“Where a public body is reviewing all 
articles for a Town Meeting warrant, it is not required to list all of the warrant articles on its 
meeting notice.”). Finally, the Board provided insufficient detail about known Chapter 90 
projects on its meeting notice for April 21. See OML 2019-121. (“Where a public body 
anticipates discussing specific Town Meeting warrant articles, it must specifically list them in its 
meeting notice.”). Therefore, we find that the Board’s notices for its January 27 and April 21 
meetings violated the Open Meeting Law by providing insufficient detail.  
2. The Board failed to timely respond to a request for open and executive session minutes.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The “minutes of an open session, if they 
exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person 
within 10 days.” Id. Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive 
session or any portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following 
receipt and release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session.4 See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the body has not performed a review, it 
must do so and then release any non-exempt minutes, or portions thereof, not later than the 
body’s next meeting or in 30 days, whichever first occurs. See Id.; OML 2013-180.  
 Here, in response to Mr. Bowman’s January 28 request for open and executive meeting 
minutes from the Board’s January 27 meeting, the Board prepared a draft of the meeting minutes 
and sent them to Mr. Bowman within 10 business days. Under the Open Meeting Law, a public 
body has 10 calendar days from the date a request for meeting minutes is received to provide a 
response, unlike requests made under the Public Records Law for which a records custodian has 
10 business days to respond. See OML 2019-125. The Board concedes that this response was 
late, due to a misunderstanding of the applicable timeframe for responding. We therefore find a 
violation as the Board’s response was late.  
 However, we find that the Board permissibly withheld from release the January 27 
executive session minutes. The Board asserts, and we have confirmed during an in camera 
review, that this executive session relates to ongoing negations with the Town Manager, and 
therefore the purpose is still ongoing. Therefore, the Board was not required to release these 
executive session minutes in response to Mr. Bowman’s request and we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
3. The Board created and approved insufficiently detailed open session and work session 
meeting minutes for a January 27 meeting.5 
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
 
4 Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or 
in part, from disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(l); see OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56. 
5 The Board’s “work sessions,” which generally include longer discussions on single topics, are open to the public.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive 
summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is required for open 
sessions. See OML 2018-26; OML 2014-43. 
 Here, as the Board concedes, both the Board’s open and work session minutes for its 
January 27 meeting do not provide sufficient detail regarding each topic discussed. In many 
places, the minutes note that a discussion was held, or a topic was addressed, without specifying 
what was said on each topic, leaving the reader without a clear understanding of what occurred. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a 
public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes 
summarize the substance of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. We 
therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to draft and approve 
accurate minutes for the January 27 open session and work session.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
1) posting January 27 and April 21 meeting notices which contained insufficient detail; 2) failing 
to timely respond to a request for open and executive session minutes; and 3) creating and 
approving insufficiently detailed open session and work session meeting minutes for a January 
27 meeting. 
 We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Board 
to create and approve sufficiently detailed meeting minutes for its January 27 open session and 
work session with 60 days of the receipt of this order.   
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alexander Bowman (via e-mail:  ) 
 Sandisfield Board of Selectmen c/o Town Manager (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 