===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
August 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 111 
 
 
Paul T. O’Neill 
Interim City Solicitor 
City of Methuen 
41 Pleasant Street 
Methuen, MA 01844 
 
By email only: poneill@ci.methuen.ma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Neill: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lisa Coombs on June 3, 2025, alleging that the 
Methuen City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about May 5, 2025, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated June 5, 2025.
1  The complaint alleges that 
the Council failed to timely review and release minutes of an executive session meeting held on 
February 21, 2017.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.   
 
 The complaint stems from a March 13, 2025, public records request made by the 
complainant for executive session minutes of the Council meeting held on February 21, 2017.  
During the February 21, 2017, meeting, the Council convened in executive session under 
 
1 We remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Purpose 3 and discussed strategy with respect to the litigation matter of Fountain v. City of 
Methuen, Essex Superior Court, Civil Action No.: ESCV 2015-00015-C.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”) (public bodies may convene in executive session “[t]o discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”).  The 
Council has not provided the complainant with the requested minutes maintaining that the 
minutes are being withheld to protect attorney-client privilege.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Most requests for 
government documents are governed by the Public Records Law.  See 950 C.M.R. 32.06(2)(e). 
However, the Open Meeting Law also provides a mechanism for the public to request meeting 
minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22.  A request for meeting minutes that is made under the Open Meeting 
Law rather than the Public Records Law imposes additional obligations on the public body.  If a 
request is made under the Open Meeting Law, “[minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  Executive session minutes, however, may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public, so long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  If a public body has determined, prior to the 
request, that the requested executive session minutes may be released, the body must respond to 
the requester directly, notifying him or her as to whether those minutes are available.  See OML 
2015-53.2  And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such 
a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  In such circumstances, the body must still 
respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. 
See OML 2020-16; OML 2015-53.  
 
Here, the complainant subm
 itted a request for a copy of executive session minutes of the 
Council’s February 21, 2017, meeting through the City of Methuen’s Public Records Portal, 
which was then directed to the Town Clerk.  As such, we find that the request for meeting 
minutes was not a request that fell under the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c), (g)(2), 
and therefore did not impose upon the Council the additional obligation to review its executive 
session minutes for possible public release.  See OML 2020-101.  Therefore, the Council did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law when it reviewed the requested executive session minutes during 
its meeting on April 22, 2025, which was the fourth meeting following the request.
3   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website;  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
3 The Council held meetings on March 17, April 7, April 17 and April 22, 2025.  Although we note that the April 17, 
2025, meeting was scheduled as a “workshop,” a workshop meeting can be considered a meeting subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2019-84 (holding that a public body’s “workshop” constituted a meeting under the 
Open Meeting Law, although it was not called a “meeting”); OML 2017-103 (public body should have created 
complete minutes for its “workshop” meetings because topics discussed were matters within the public body’ s 
jurisdiction); see also OML 2024-143 (explaining that Open Meeting Law and regulations do not distinguish 
between “regular” meetings and other types of meetings such as workshops, public hearings, joint meetings, or 
special meetings for purposes of timely approval of minutes). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
With respect to the Council’s decision to withhold the minutes, the Open Meeting Law 
provide
s that minutes of an executive session meeting, as well as the materials used to prepare 
the minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, “may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public in their entirety . . . [for] as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, but no longer . . . .”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Specifically, with 
respect to executive sessions held under Purpose 3, “the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and 
documents and exhibits used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their 
entirety, unless and until such time as a litigating . . . position is no longer jeopardized by such 
disclosure . . . .”  Id.  Once the litigating position is no longer jeopardized by disclosure of the 
executive session minutes and materials, “they shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold [the] 
records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.”  Id.  The burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151. 
 
The Division’s jurisdiction in the course of the Open Meeting Law complaint process is 
to re
view for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, we 
review whether a public body may lawfully withhold executive session meeting minutes based 
on a claim that the lawful purpose for the executive session is ongoing.  See OML 2020-120.  If 
the public body acknowledges or we find that the purpose for the executive session has expired, 
the public body still may cite to a Public Records Law exemption or the attorney-client privilege 
as a reason for continuing to withhold executive session minutes or portions of those minutes.   
 
The Council has explained that it is withholding the minutes here based on a claim of 
atto
rney-client privilege, and not on any assertion that the Open Meeting Law executive session 
purpose is ongoing such that release of the minutes would jeopardize the Council’s litigating 
position.  The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate a complaint 
alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law and to request documents in the course of that 
investigation but does not give the Division the authority to determine whether the Council’s 
assertion of the attorney-client privilege or any other exemption under the Public Records Law is 
justified.  See OML 2020-157; OML 2016-129; OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7.  Any dispute 
regarding a public body’s claim that minutes are exempt from disclosure pursuant to the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law should be directed to the 
Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records Division.  See, 
e.g., OML 2020-157; OML 2016-57.  Because the executive session minutes are not being 
withheld from the public under the Open Meeting Law, we find no violation of that law.  See 
OML 2022-87.  We take no position as to whether the Council’s claim of attorney-client 
privilege is appropriate to justify the withholding of the minutes and note that the complainant 
may be able to challenge the Council’s assertion of such privileges in another forum.  Indeed, the 
complainant may contact the Supervisor of Records for a determination as to whether the 
minutes may continue to be withheld pursuant to a Public Records Law exemption.  See OML 
2015-170. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 For the above reasons, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lisa Coombs – By email only:    
Methuen City Council c/o Chair Ronald Marson – By email only: 
RMarson@ci.methuen.ma.us 
Methuen City Clerk – By email only: cityclerk@ci.methuen.ma.us 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
