===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
February 6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 14 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
David A. DeLuca, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Dr # 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
ddeluca@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney DeLuca, 
 
This office received a complaint from Dracut Police Chief Peter Bartlett on August 30, 
2022,
1 alleging that the Dracut Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was filed with the Board on July 22, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 10.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board engaged in discussion regarding discipline of a particular police lieutenant in open session 
on June 14 rather than in executive session. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review.  We also reviewed the minutes for the Board’s June 14 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in open 
session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a).  One such purpose is Purpose 1, which allows a public body to convene in executive 
session to “discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  When a public body enters executive session under Purpose 1, the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
individual to be discussed in the executive session must be afforded certain rights.  Id.  The 
individual must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session.  Id.  The individual also has the right (1) to request that the session be open; 
(2) to be present during the meeting; (3) to speak on his or her own behalf; (4) to have counsel or 
a representative present and attending for the purpose of advising the individual, but not for the 
purpose of active participation in the session; and (5) to make an independent transcript of the 
meeting at the individual's expense.  Id. 
 
Although the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to enter executive session for one 
or more of the ten enumerated purposes, it never requires a public body to enter executive 
session.  See OML 2022-177; OML 2021-40; OML 2019-160; OML 2012-32 (“While a public 
body may choose to discuss an individual’s reputation and character behind closed doors, there is 
no requirement that such a discussion occur in executive session, and the subject of the 
discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that they do so.”).
2  In other 
words, even if a particular matter may be permissible for discussion in executive session, a 
public body may choose to discuss the matter publicly in open session instead.  If a public body 
chooses to discuss a matter in open session that may also be permissible for discussion in 
executive session under Purpose 1, the individual need not be afforded the rights that would be 
required if the matter were discussed in executive session.  See OML 2012-32.   
 
After reviewing the minutes of the Board’s June 14 meeting, we make no finding as to 
whether the Board’s discussion regarding the rotation of officers assigned to the Northeastern 
Massachusetts Law Enforcement Council and Lieutenant Seamans’ removal from that 
assignment constituted a discussion of discipline.  Even if the discussion had constituted a 
discussion regarding discipline of a particular employee, the Board was not required to hold such 
a discussion in executive session.   
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board  did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Chief Peter Bartlett (via e-mail: pbartlett@dracutma.gov) 
Dracut Board of Selectmen (via e-mail: srowe@dracutma.gov; avandal@dracutma.gov) 
Dracut Town Clerk (via e-mail: kgraham@dracutma.gov) 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 