===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 13, 2019 
OML 2019-99
Robert W. Galvin, Esq.
Galvin & Galvin, P.C.
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332-3315
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Galvin:
This office received a complaint from Thomas Boussy on November 13 alleging that 
the Stoneham Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 10, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 22. The complaint alleges that the Board 
discussed a topic in executive session during its September 24 meeting that was not posted on the 
notice.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.2 We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of Board meetings held on August 22, August 27, September 24, and 
October 2; the executive session minutes of Board meetings held on August 22, September 24 
and October 2; and the amended employment agreement between the Town of Stoneham and the
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 In his request for further review, the complainant also alleges that the Board discussed its reorganization outside of 
a posted meeting, and that a Board member should have recused herself during the Board’s September 24 meeting. 
We decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the Board because the 
Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). We find that both 
allegations were not raised in the original complaint and thus we do not review their merits. Furthermore, the 
Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, any potential conflict 
of interest violations raised in the complaint for further review. See OML 2013-54. We note that the State Ethics 
Commission enforces the Commonwealth's Conflict of Interest Law.

===PAGE 2===
Town Administrator. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on December 17 and January 4, 
2019; and with the complainant by telephone on March 27, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 22 at 7:00 p.m. The notice included two executive session topics, one of which was to 
“conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining session or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel... to wit: Town 
Administrator.”
The August 22 meeting was held as planned. Chair Anthony Wilson opened the meeting 
and then a Board member moved to enter into executive session “to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel... to wit: Town Administrator.” The 
Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. During the 
executive session, the Board discussed an amendment to the Town Administrator’s contract, 
which would modify the existing contract and allow the Town Administrator to resign 
approximately one year before his contract expired. The Board unanimously voted to approve 
the amendment.
The Board then duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 27 at 6:30 p.m.
The notice listed four topics, including “Ratification of Contract Amendment for Town 
Administrator” and “Establish Search Committee/Process/Job Description for Town 
Administrator/Related Topics.”
The August 27 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, Chair Wilson 
announced that the Town Administrator had resigned to pursue other career opportunities and 
that his last day of employment would be November 16. The Board unanimously ratified the 
contract amendment that it had discussed during the August 22 executive session. The Board 
then created a Town Administrator Search Committee, a seven-member public body, which 
would include two members of the Board, the Town Accountant, the Finance and Advisory 
Board Chair, the Superintendent of Schools, the Police Chief, and a resident. The Board 
established a timeline for the next four weeks which would include creating a job description, 
posting the job opening, accepting resumes and final recommendations to the Board.
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 24 at 7:00 p.m. The 
notice listed four topics, including Reorganization of the Board and two executive sessions. One 
of the executive session topics was to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel including the Town Accountant.”
The September 24 meeting was held as planned. The Board first reorganized, choosing a 
new Chair, Vice-Chair and Clerk. Chair Wilson then moved to enter into executive session “for 
the purpose of conducting strategy in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
including the Town Accountant.” The Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to
2

===PAGE 3===
convene in executive session. During the executive session, the Board discussed contract terms 
for the Town Accountant.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for 
any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive 
session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open 
session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v.
Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
The complaint alleges that the Board dismissed the Town Administrator when it met in 
executive session on September 24 without listing that topic on the meeting notice. The 
September 24 meeting notice did not list as a topic any matter relating to the Town 
Administrator. We have reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the Board’s September 24 
executive session meeting and find that the Board did not discuss the termination of the Town 
Administrator. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic. See 
OML 2014-98; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-23.3 Moreover, the Open Meeting Law imposes no 
obligation on chairs of public bodies to place items on a meeting agenda, unless the chair 
anticipates discussing a particular topic. See OML 2015-73. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law where it did not discuss the Town Administrator during its 
September 24 meeting.
Finally, the complaint broadly alleges that the Board removed the Town Administrator 
without any publicly posted meeting which is a violation of the Town of Stoneham’s bylaws. 
First, we note that the Board met in a properly posted executive session on August 22; the 
August 22 meeting notice identified the non-union personnel, the Town Administrator, with 
whom the Board would be negotiating, and the Board’s discussions regarding the Town 
Administrator’s contract terms fell within a proper statutory purpose. See OML 2017-69; OML 
2016-43. Then, during an open session meeting on August 27, the Board announced that the 
Town Administrator had resigned to pursue other career opportunities and that his last day of 
employment would be November 16. Second, the Division of Open Government is charged 
specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions 
taken by the Board could be a violation of Town bylaws. See OML Declination 1-19-16 
(Southborough Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 3-11-13 (Abington Conservation 
Commission).
3 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Thomas Boussy
Stoneham Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
