===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 118 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Samantha Vasques, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
sam@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Vasques: 
 
This office received two complaints from Cindy King on February 13, 2025,
1 one 
alleging that the Board of Trustees of the Townsend Affordable Housing Trust (the “Trust”)—
specifically, members Veronica Kell, David Werlin, and Beverly Napoir—violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; and another alleging that the Townsend Selectboard (the 
“Selectboard”)—specifically, members Veronica Kell and Laura Shifrin—violated the Open 
Meeting Law. The complaints were filed with the Trust and the Selectboard on or about January 
13, and you responded on behalf of the Trust by letter dated February 3. The Selectboard did not 
respond.2 Together the complaints allege that the Trust and the Selectboard improperly 
deliberated during a January 9 meeting of the Townsend Planning Board (the “Planning Board”). 
 
Following our review, we find that the Selectboard and the Trust did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaints, the Trust’s response, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed the 
notices for the Selectboard’s January 7 meeting and the Planning Board’s January 9 meeting, as 
well as video recordings of each meeting.
3 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remind the Selectboard of its obligation to comply with all provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the 
obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days, and to send to the Attorney General 
a copy of such response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
3 A video recording of the Selectboard’s January 7 meeting may be found at  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LNAQd6ES1Aw. A video recording of the Planning Board’s January 9 meeting 
may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qhGJrHYcL90. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Trust is a five-member public body; therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum. The Trust’s membership includes Veronica Kell, David 
Werlin, Beverly Napoir, and Cindy Boundy, with one vacancy. The Selectboard is a three-
member public body; therefore, two members constitute a quorum. The Selectboard’s 
membership includes Laura Shifrin, Veronica Kell, and Valerie Goodrich.4 Laura Shifrin also 
serves on the Planning Board as chair; the Planning Board does not share any other members 
with the Trust or the Selectboard.  
 
The Selectboard posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 7. Among other topics, 
the notice for the January 7 meeting included the topic “Mandatory Referral – Planning Board 
RE proposed amendments for the Zoning Bylaw (Special Town Meeting Articles).” During 
discussion of this topic, Ms. Kell shared feedback, concerns, and questions she had regarding 
two proposed bylaw amendments the Planning Board was considering and which were proposed 
for the upcoming Special Town Meeting warrant—one relating to accessory dwelling units and 
the other to age-restricted developments. Ms. Kell’s comments included a suggested edit to the 
accessory dwelling unit amendment and various concerns and questions she had with respect to 
the age-restricted development amendment, including concerns about density, affordability, and 
whether the developments would in fact be age-restricted. At one point during the discussion, 
Ms. Kell stated that she planned to attend the Planning Board’s next meeting during which the 
amendments would be discussed. Toward the end of the discussion, Ms. Shifrin asked Ms. Kell 
to write up her comments as the Selectboard’s mandatory referral comment to the Planning 
Board and sign it as vice chair of the Selectboard. 
 
 Thereafter, the Selectboard turned to the warrant for the upcoming Special Town Meeting 
and voted to approve warrant articles 1 through 19, included the articles related to the accessory 
dwelling unit amendment and the age-restricted development amendment, subject to approval by 
town counsel following the Planning Board’s January 9 meeting. 
 
The Planning Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 9 at 6:30 p.m. 
Included on the notice for the meeting was a public hearing regarding the proposed bylaw 
amendments related to accessory dwelling units and age-restricted developments. Ms. Shifrin 
chaired the beginning portion of the January 9 meeting. In addition to a few other members of 
the public, three members of the Trust attended the meeting: Ms. Kell, David Werlin, and 
Beverly Napoir.  
 
During the public hearing portion of the meeting, Ms. Shifrin read into the record the 
mandatory referral comments the Planning Board had received from various town bodies and 
officials, including the comments from the Selectboard, written by Ms. Kell. The Selectboard’s 
comments included a request that an affordability clause be added to the age-restricted 
development amendment; Ms. Shifrin responded to the request by explaining that the Planning 
Board had received written guidance from legal counsel that it likely could not entertain such a 
request at that time. Thereafter, Ms. Shifrin relinquished the role of chair of the meeting and the 
 
4 At the time of the events at issue here, the Selectboard had a vacancy which has since been filled by Ms. Goodrich. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Planning Board’s vice chair, Carol Hoffses, took over as chair. The Planning Board then turned 
to public comment. 
 
During public comment, Ms. Kell, who was seated in the audience with other members of 
the public, spoke at various times as did another member of the public. In general, Ms. Kell and 
the other individual waited to be recognized by the chair before speaking, but not always. Ms. 
Kell’s comments and questions largely mirrored those she had expressed and asked during the 
Selectboard’s January 7 meeting. At various points Ms. Kell chimed in with information and 
guidance based on her past experience serving on the Planning Board. At one point, Ms. Kell, by 
way of a hypothetical to better understand how the proposed age-restricted development 
amendment might work, discussed land owned by the Trust and what the Trust would be allowed 
to develop on that land under the proposed amendment. Ms. Kell also commented that from an 
affordability perspective, the amendment could be helpful for the Trust, noting her earlier 
hypothetical. In response, Mr. Werlin very briefly noted that when some other piece of property 
is no longer available, the Trust would need to do something along the lines of Ms. Kell’s 
hypothetical. Finally, Ms. Kell inquired whether a few minor edits proposed during the Planning 
Board’s meeting would be part of the Special Town Meeting warrant article regarding these 
proposed amendments and noted that the Selectboard had already approved the warrant. After 
some additional discussion, the Planning Board closed the public hearing. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body’s deliberations occur during a 
proper
ly noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless one of ten narrow exceptions apply. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(a); 21. The Law defines “deliberation” as any “oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A 
“meeting” is a “deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” Id. However, the Open Meeting Law specifies that a “meeting” does not include 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.” Id.  
 
When determining whether a quorum of a public body has deliberated while attending the 
meeting of another public body, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting 
body members were seated with the general public and whether they participated by open 
participation as other members of the public and not in a special capacity as public body 
members. See OML 2021-108; OML 2016-117; OML 2012-6.
5 We also consider whether the 
public body members in attendance appeared to direct their remarks primarily toward their 
fellow public body members in attendance, or whether the remarks were directed primarily at the 
public and the public body whose meeting was being attended. See OML 2021-171; OML 2020-
93; OML 2017-111. Finally, we have explained that the Open Meeting Law does not prohibit a 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
member of a public body—or even a quorum of members of a public body—from serving on 
anothe
r public body, provided that their discussions during a posted meeting of the other public 
body are restricted to matters within that public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2018-112; OML 
2016-119; OML 2013-155. 
 
After review of the video recording of the Planning Board’s January 9 meeting, we find 
that 
neither the Selectboard nor the Trust improperly deliberated during the Planning Board’s 
meeting. First, although Ms. Kell acknowledged that she had written the Selectboard’s comments 
regarding the proposed bylaw amendments, and although Ms. Kell’s comments made during the 
Planning Board’s meeting largely reiterated those comments, we find that Ms. Kell did not attend 
the Planning Board meeting in her official capacity as a member of the Selectboard but rather as 
a resident of Townsend. Additionally, Ms. Kell participated openly and in the same manner as 
other members of the public and she discussed matters under discussion by the Planning Board. 
Furthermore, we note that Ms. Shifrin attended the Planning Board meeting in her official 
capacity as a member of the Planning Board, not as a member of the Selectboard. Finally, it is 
clear from the video recording of the Planning Board’s meeting that Ms. Kell’s comments 
regarding property owned by the Trust were part of a hypothetical scenario presented for the 
purpose of better understanding how the proposed age-restricted development amendment might 
work, not for the purpose of proposing a course of action for the Trust to consider; we find that 
Mr. Werlin’s brief comment in response did not alter the nature of that discussion. Based on the 
specific facts of this case, we find that Ms. Kell’s public comments, and Mr. Werlin’s brief 
comment, during the Planning Board’s January 9 meeting did not constitute deliberation, 
notwithstanding the presence of a quorum of the Selectboard and the Trust. Therefore, neither 
the Selectboard nor the Trust improperly deliberated during the Planning Board’s January 9 
meeting. See OML 2023-142; OML 2023–93; OML 2012-72.  
 
Although we find that the Trust did not improperly deliberate in this instance, we advise 
the Trust that the definition of “deliberation” is quite broad and that its members should exercise 
caution when a quorum will attend the meeting of another public body without posting notice of 
a meeting of the Trust. 
  
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Selectboard and the Trust did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Selectboard, the Trust, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Veronica Kell, Chair, Board of Trustees of the Townsend Affordable Housing Trust  
(via email: vkell@townsendma.gov)  
 Laura Shifrin, Chair, Townsend Selectboard (via email: lshifrin@townsendma.gov) 
 Harrison Mayotte, Town Clerk (via email: clerk@townsendma.gov) 
 Nelson Mui, Town Administrator (via email: Nmui@townsendma.gov) 
Cindy King (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
