===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago   
1  
June 5, 2020         OML 2020 – 67  VIA EMAIL ONLY  Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. KP Law gcorbo@k-plaw.com    RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Corbo:  This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 4, 20201, alleging that the Somerset Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, as amended by Governor Charles Baker’s March 12 order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 2, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 23. The complaint alleges that 1) the Board failed to provide the public adequate, alternative means of access to its April 1 meeting, and 2) notice for the April 1 meeting was insufficiently detailed as it failed to identify the nonunion personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating.     Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint; the Board’s response; the request for further review; the meeting notices for the Board’s April 1, 15, and 29 meetings; and the video recordings of the Board’s meetings held on April 1, 15, and 29.   FACTS   We find the facts as follows. On March 10 Governor Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting                                                              1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
===PAGE 2===
2   
Law during the state of emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the public. The Executive Order relieves a public body from the requirement to hold its meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the public only if the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 1. The location of the meeting was listed as “Remote Meeting via Zoom App ATTENDANCE IS BY INVITE ONLY. Please contact the water department and request a meeting invite at least 4 hours prior to meeting.” The notice provided no telephone number or email address for the public to contact in order to request an invitation to the meeting. Included on the notice was a topic for executive session which read “Conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel.” The notice did not include the name or position of the nonunion personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating. During the April 1 meeting, the Chair moved to enter into executive session to discuss strategy with regard to negotiations with nonunion personnel, but did not name the specific personnel or position to be discussed. At some time after the April 1 meeting, a recording of the meeting was posted to the Somerset Access Television website.2  In meetings held on April 15 and 29 the Board acknowledged the Complainant’s Open Meeting Law complaint and voted to refer the complaint to counsel to respond.3 The Board also voted to amend the minutes of its April 1 meeting to include the identity of the nonunion position that was the subject of the executive session discussion, information that had not been provided during the April 1 meeting.  DISCUSSION   1. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Denying the Public Access to Its April 1 Meeting.   The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public, the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2014-118 (finding that a locked door and a “closed” sign served as a deterrent to attending a meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law); OML 2017-172 (finding that a meeting location with a locked door was sufficiently accessible where a note was posted on the door with instructions for how to gain entrance to the                                                              2 The recording may be found at http://www.somersetaccesstv.org/satv/?page_id=531. 3 Due to an error, the Board’s discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaint was not included on the notice for its April 15 meeting. Therefore, on April 29, the Board again acknowledged receipt of the Open Meeting Law complaint and voted to ratify its earlier votes.    
===PAGE 3===
3   
meeting); OML 2018-51 (noting that when a door happens to lock momentarily, unbeknownst to the public body, and there is no specific allegation that any member of the public was excluded from the meeting because of that temporarily locked door, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law).4   Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. The Executive Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to members of the public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 (emphasis added). The Executive Order includes an exception to the requirement to provide real-time access to a public body’s proceedings, but only in cases where, due to economic hardship and despite best efforts, a municipality is unable to provide real-time access. Id.   The Board argues that “[b]ecause [its] meeting notice accurately described the manner in which members of the public view and participate in the meeting by electronic means and the means used provided transparency and permited [sic] timely and effective public access to the deliberations of the Board, there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law or the Governor’s Order.” We disagree. By posting the meeting as “invite only” and requiring that members of the public request an invitation no less than four hours before the meeting was to begin, the Board not only gave the impression that the meeting was not generally open to the public, but it effectively closed and locked the door to the meeting four hours prior to its start. Therefore, we find that the Board’s April 1 meeting was not accessible to the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.5,6    2. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Posting an Insufficiently Detailed Meeting Notice.   A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The                                                              4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 5 We note that had the Board provided access to its April 1 meeting via a live broadcast on Somerset Access Television, rather than or in addition to the Zoom application, this would have sufficed as adequate, alternative means of public access in compliance with the Open Meeting Law and the Executive Order.    6 Public bodies concerned about the integrity of their virtual meetings may require members of the public to call or email to request login information for a virtual meeting. However, the notice must include the telephone number and/or email address the public should contact to request the login information, and the telephone number and/or email address must be monitored such that a member of the public can receive the necessary login information in a timely manner and at all times up to and throughout the meeting. See OML 2017-172 (in the context of in-person meetings, if a meeting location will be locked for any reason, someone must be available to unlock the door and allow members of the public into the meeting for the duration of the meeting).  
===PAGE 4===
4   
list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). When a public body enters into executive session under Purpose 2, the body generally must identify the specific nonunion employee or employees with whom it is negotiating, unless doing so would compromise the public body’s negotiating position. See OML 2015-193.  Although the Board denies any violation of the Open Meeting Law, it does not dispute that the notice for its April 1 meeting failed to identify the name or position of the nonunion personnel that was the subject of the Purpose 2 executive session. Nor does the Board make any claim that disclosing the name or position of the nonunion personnel would have compromised the Board’s negotiating position. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the name or position of the nonunion personnel that was the subject of its April 1 executive session discussion.   3. The Board’s Subsequent Actions Did Not Cure Either Violation.  The Board asserts that it cured both violations by making available online a recording of the April 1 open session and by amending its meeting minutes to include the identity of the nonunion position that was the subject of the April 1 executive session. Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided. Here, where the Board amended its minutes to include information that was not provided during the April 1 meeting and posted a recording of the open session portion of the meeting online afterwards, we find that the Board’s actions did not cure the prior deficiencies, and we therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.7 See OML 2015-37 (the requirement that a public body state the purpose for its executive session is intended to give the public notice of what a public body plans to discuss behind closed doors; amending meeting minutes after the fact does not achieve this goal.). Nonetheless, because there is no allegation that the discussion in executive session was an improper topic for executive session, and because the Board has now informed the public of the nature of the executive session discussion and provided the public with access to a recording of the April 1 open session, we order no further remedial action.                                                                7 We note that in its efforts to cure the omission of necessary information from the meeting notice and the announcement prior to entering executive session, the Board amended its April 1 meeting minutes to include information about the subject of the executive session discussion that was not actually communicated at the April 1 meeting. We remind the Board that minutes must accurately reflect what occurred at a meeting, and should not be amended to include information that was not provided during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2019-145; OML 2014-94.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with adequate, alternative means of access to its April 1 meeting and 
by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice with regard to its April 1 executive session. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail: ) 
Somerset Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners (via e-mail: 
watersewerchair@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Robert Bozikowski, Superintendent of Water and Sewer (via e-mail: 
bbozikowski@town.somerset.ma.us) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
