===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 22, 2018 
OML 2018-23 
Gary Kleiman & Elise Woodward, Co-Chairs 
Concord Comprehensive Long Range Planning Committee 
141 Keyes Road 
Concord, MA 01742 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Kleiman and Ms. Woodward: 
This office received a complaint from Tanya Gailus on December 6, alleging that the 
Concord Comprehensive Long Range Planning Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about October 6, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated October 17. In her complaint, Ms. Gailus alleges that the 
Committee created a subcommittee that did not comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices, minutes and audio-recordings of the 
Committee's August 11 and September 8 meetings. Finally, we spoke with Co-Chairs Gary 
Kleiman and Elise Woodward by telephone on January 10, 2018. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a fourteen-member public body, thus 
eight members constitute a quorum. Back in August, the Committee was in the process of 
drafting a survey to distribute to residents concerning the Town's 2018 long-range plan. 
During its August 11 meeting, the Committee discussed a draft version of the survey, which 
they were in the process of editing along with a Town consultant. Ms. Woodward suggested 
that Committee members bring their edits and revisions to the next meeting, which was 
scheduled for September 8. Committee member Peggy Briggs then suggested that a "sub-task 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
force" be formed, which the Committee appeared to agree upon. Ms. Woodward asked for 
volunteers for this "subcommittee," to which two Committee members, John Boyton and 
Barbara Morse, responded affirmatively. Ms. Woodward suggested that other Committee 
members send their comments on the survey questions to Mr. Boynton and Ms. Morse, 
though none of the Committee members sent any comments to them following this meeting. 
On August 16, Mr. Boynton and Ms. Morse met in person to review and edit the draft 
survey. On August 29, Mr. Boynton and Ms. Morse participated on a telephone call, along 
with the consultant and two Planning Department employees, to discuss the survey. 
The Committee then convened a meeting on September 8. The consultant was present 
to answer questions about the survey and the process. The consultant stated, "we are 
continuing to work with Barbara [Morse] and John [Boynton]" on the draft survey, which the 
Committee and the consultant expected to be complete within days. The consultant 
subsequently posted the final survey on September 19. Hard copies of the survey were also 
available to the public at the library. The Committee did not review the final survey until 
after its release, during its meeting on September 22. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant 
part, as "a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]" 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "subcommittee" is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee created a subcommittee, consisting of 
Committee members Mr. Boynton and Ms. Morse, tasked with revising a draft survey. The 
Committee responded that it did not create a subcommittee, but rather sought a single 
volunteer to assist the consultant with wordsmithing the survey and another Committee 
member offered to assist that single volunteer. We agree with the complainant and find that 
the Committee created a subcommittee during its August 11 meeting. The Committee did not 
seek a single volunteer, but rather sought "volunteers" to work together on the task. See 
OML 2016-59; OML 2014-63; G.L. c. BOA, § 18 (a "subcommittee" is defined as a multiple-
member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body).2 After two 
Committee members volunteered to work on the survey together, the Committee, by 
consensus, formally agreed to this arrangement. Cf OML 2017-111 (in which the Attorney 
General found that a public body did not create a subcommittee where a member, on her own 
initiative, offered to assist the sole designee in carrying out a task). Accordingly, we find that 
the subcommittee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that we find that the subcommittee is a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and therefore violated the Law by failing to comply 
with its requirements. We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the 
law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the subcommittee to create 
minutes for all previous meetings, including the August 16 and August 29 meetings, to the 
best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including the memories and 
individual notations of the attendees. Compliance with this order should occur within thirty 
(30) days of the Committee's receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tanya Gailus 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 