===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH  OF  MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 21, 2013 
OML 2013 — 33 
Cyndy S. Taymore 
Superintendent of Schools 
Melrose School District 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Superintendent Taymore: 
This office received a complaint from Maryan Hollis, dated February 1, 2012, alleging 
that the Melrose School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that at a December 7, 2011 meeting of a 
Committee screening panel assembled to recommend candidates to serve on a Superintendent 
Search Committee, the panel entered into executive session "for the reason that discussion of 
individuals publicly would discourage them from volunteering to serve," even though the 
"decision to hold this discussion in executive session was not announced until after the deadline 
for individuals to express their desire to be on the search committee," and where "the entire list 
was forwarded to the full School Committee for discussion in open session." The complaint was 
filed with the Committee on or about December 31, 2011. The Committee responded by letter 
dated January 25, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we considered this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination we reviewed the December 31, 2011 complaint; the Committee's January 25, 2012 
response; and the February 1, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice 
and open and executive session minutes of the Committee's December 7, 2011 Selection Panel 
meeting. Finally, we reviewed a letter from Ms. Hollis, dated February 1, 2012, that was not part 
of her complaint. 
ca 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
In the Fall of 2011, the Superintendent of Schools informed the Committee that he 
intended to retire at the end of the 2011/2012 academic year. Following this announcement, the 
Committee developed a process to select a new superintendent. The seven-member Committee 
decided to create a thirteen-member Superintendent Search Committee (the "Search 
Committee"), consisting of two Committee members, one administrator, two principals, two 
teachers, three parents, two community representatives and one expert in the field of education. 
The Committee then created a three-member Superintendent Search Committee Selection Panel 
(the "Selection Panel") to help the Committee select members for the Search Committee. The 
Selection Panel invited individuals who were interested in serving on the Search Committee to 
submit letters of interest, indicating their particular qualifications to represent their stakeholder 
group or to serve as a community representative or educational expert. 
A copy of the invitation was posted to the district's website in advance of the 
Committee's November 15, 2011 meeting, and included the following statement: "Letters of 
intent will allow interested individuals to indicate interest and define qualification in a more 
confidential manner than submitting a resume which is considered a public document under the 
Public Records Law." According to Committee Chair Kristin Thorp, who issued the above 
statement, based on her 13 years of experience as a volunteer in the Melrose Public Schools, she 
believed that the school district has had difficulty attracting volunteers to serve on various 
committees within the district, and felt that a public discussion of the qualifications of applicants 
for appointment to the Search Committee would discourage individuals from applying. 
As of December 2, 2011, the Chair of the Committee had received 33 letters of interest, 
which she submitted to the Selection Panel. On December 7, 2011, the Selection Panel met in 
open session, and voted to enter executive session "in order to conduct a preliminary screening 
of candidates for recommendation to the School Committee where an open meeting would have 
a detrimental effect on obtaining qualified candidates and to reconvene in Open Session when 
this screening was complete." Following the executive session, the Selection Panel reconvened 
in public and stated that it would present the Committee with the names of all 33 applicants, 
having concluded that all were qualified to serve on the Search Committee. 
On December 20, 2011, the Committee met in open session and considered the selection 
of applicants to serve on the Search Committee. Mayor Robert Dolan, who is an ex-officio 
member of the Committee, moved to approve the slate of applicants proposed by Committee 
Chair Thorp. Following that motion, the Committee discussed the slate for about ten minutes. 
Following the discussion, the Committee voted to approve the Mayor's motion by a vote of 6-1. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to enter executive—or closed—session for 
any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive 
session is Purpose 8, which allows a public body to enter executive session to "consider or 
interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the 
chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings 
2 
===PAGE 3===
of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a 
prior preliminary screening." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). 
The Search Panel was established by the Committee as a preliminary screening 
committee to review the qualifications of individuals applying to serve on the Search Committee. 
The Search Panel reviewed 33 applicants for 13 spots, and following its December 7, 2011 
meeting, recommended all 33 to the full Committee for consideration. The complaint alleges 
that the Search Panel did not inform potential applicants that the preliminary discussion of their 
qualifications would be held in secret until after the deadline for applying, and therefore cannot 
claim that holding an open session would have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
applicants. However, the Search Panel did include a notice assuring some level of 
confidentiality in the review process, stating to applicants that submitting "[getters of intent will 
allow interested individuals to indicate interest and define qualification in a more confidential 
manner than submitting a resume which is considered a public document under the Public 
Records Law." Additionally, the Committee argues that the Committee Chair, who drafted the 
statement, included it in the posting because, based on her 13 years of experience as a volunteer 
in the Melrose Public Schools, she believed that the school district has had difficulty attracting 
volunteers to serve on various committees within the district, and felt that a public discussion of 
the qualifications of applicants for appointment to the Search Committee would discourage 
individuals from applying. We find this reason to be sufficient justification for a preliminary 
screening committee to conduct its preliminary screening process in executive session under 
Purpose 8. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). 
The complainant argues that because the entire list of 33 applicants was forwarded to the 
full Committee for discussion in open session, the Committee cannot claim that the applicants 
would be unwilling to have their names discussed in public. We generally defer to the 
preliminary screening committee, in this case the Search Panel, to decide whether holding the 
preliminary process in open session would have a detrimental effect on its ability to obtain 
qualified applicants. The preliminary screening committee must have some reasonable basis for 
that claim, however it is not necessary to prove that any specific applicant would have withdrawn 
or not applied had the process been conducted in open session. Here, the Committee Chair 
believed that discussing the qualifications of the individuals in open session would have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants. After discussing the applicants in executive 
session under Purpose 8, the Search Panel decided that all of the applicants were qualified and 
forwarded their names to the Committee for discussion. Although all 33 candidates were 
ultimately considered by the Committee in open session, it was not unreasonable for the Search 
Panel to believe that the candidates might not be willing to have their qualifications reviewed 
openly during the initial stage of the process. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when its Search Panel 
met in executive session on December 7, 2011 to consider the qualifications of applicants to the 
Search Committee. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
J. .than Sclarsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Maryan Hollis 
Mary Jo Hollender, Esq. 
Melrose School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 