===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       March 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 39 
 
 
Madison Harris-Parks, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
By email only: mhparks@mhtl.com  
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Harris-Parks: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on September 13, 2023, 
alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 20, 
2023, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 9, 2023.  The 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee meeting held on June 21, 2023, was 
insufficiently specific with respect to the location and start time of the meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated Open Meeting Law by failing 
to publicize the specific meeting room but find that the Committee did not violate the law in the 
other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on June 21, 2023, as well as a 
video recording of that meeting.
1  Finally, we communicated with you on February 8, 2024.    
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On June 16, 2023, the Committee posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on June 21, 2023, at 11 A.M.  The notice listed an executive session at 11 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on June 21, 2023, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pn68QHw-WM.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
A.M. and then a “Workshop” at 11:45 A.M.  The notice then listed five specific item 
descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed under “Workshop.”  The 
notice included the location of the meeting as the Warren Conference Center at 529 Chestnut 
Street in Ashland and via Zoom.  The notice provided information necessary to access the virtual 
meeting, including a link to the Zoom meeting, several telephone numbers the public could use 
to dial into the meeting, and the Webinar ID number required to log into the meeting.      
 
The Warren Conference Center consists of three main buildings: the Inn, the Hayden 
Lodge, and the Warren House.  On June 21, 2023, around 11 A.M., the Committee convened in 
open session in the Maple Room at Warren House and then entered executive session to discuss 
the deployment of security personnel or devices.  The Committee met in executive session for 
approximately one hour and then went to lunch at Hayden Lodge around 12:15 P.M.  The 
Committee reconvened in the Maple Room at Warren House at 1:09 P.M. and discussed the open 
session topics listed under “Workshop” for the next three hours. 
 
The complainant arrived at the Warren Conference Center around 11:30 A.M. and had 
trouble locating the Committee meeting.  She was directed to the Maple Room after asking staff 
for assistance.  Upon arriving at the Maple Room, the complainant learned that the Committee 
was still in executive session.  After the conclusion of the executive session, the complainant 
followed the Committee to the Hayden Lodge and then back to the Maple Room where the 
Committee reconvened the meeting in open session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.2 
 
In addition, the Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body 
shal
l post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as 
a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee meeting held on June 21, 2023, 
was
 not sufficiently specific because it did not include a precise meeting location.  Here, the 
notice for the Committee’s June 21, 2023, meeting stated the location as the Warren Conference 
Center without identifying a specific meeting room.  The Committee explains that it was not 
informed of the exact room location in which the meeting would take place until members 
arrived at the Conference Center on June 21, 2023.  Notice which does not clearly identify the 
location of the meeting does not conform to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-120 (notice 
was insufficiently specific were it failed to include the physical location of the meeting); OML 
2022-106 (“Suffolk Field Office” insufficiently specific); OML 2016-38 (“Fairhaven Fire 
Station” insufficiently specific, even though there is only one fire station in Fairhaven).  When 
the Committee learned that it would be meeting in the Maple Room at Warren House, it should 
have posted an amended notice with the specific meeting room, posted signs at the Conference 
Center or publicized the location information through whatever channels it uses to communicate 
with the public, such as list serves, automated email notifications, social media platforms and 
online messaging boards.  See OML 2017-179.  Members of the public should not have to guess 
where in a building or at a large conference center the meeting is being held.  See OML 2014-21.  
We find that the Committee’s failure to take any steps to publicize the specific meeting room 
was a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g. OML 2022-180 (finding a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law where public body did not provide any meaningful notice to the public of the 
change in the meeting location).  However, because the complaint does not allege that any 
member of the public was misled or confused by the meeting notice, or that the meeting was 
inaccessible to the public, we order no further remedial action.  See OML 2022-106; OML 2016-
77. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the public body inaccurately listed the start time for the 
works
hop portion of the meeting.  Here, the notice indicated that the meeting would begin at 11 
A.M. with an executive session first followed by a “Workshop” at 11:45 A.M.  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice with an accurate and clear start time.  See 
OML 2016-97; OML 2013-161; OML 2012-59.  Because the notice posted for the June 21, 
2023, meeting listed an 11:00 A.M. start time, and, indeed, the meeting began at that time, we 
find that the Committee complied with this aspect of its notice posting obligations under the 
Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2015-171.  Moreover, a public body must 
list anticipated discussion topics in its notice but is not required to discuss those topics in any 
particular order.  See OML 2014-54.  In fact, once a meeting begins, the public body controls its 
own agenda.  See OML 2022-153.  If a public body chooses to indicate times at which it 
anticipates different items of discussion to occur, the body should make reasonable efforts to 
honor such representations in the interest of government transparency and the logical 
expectations of attendees.  See OML 2020-77; OML 2014-35.  However, failure to do so does 
not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Nonetheless, we note our concern with the Committee’s one hour lunch break that 
occurred between the conclusion of the executive session and the beginning of the “Workshop.”  
Here, the Committee left the original meeting location, the Maple Room at Warren House, went 
to lunch at Hayden Lodge, and then reconvened in the Maple Room.  Although the Open 
Meeting Law does not expressly address recesses or the permissible duration thereof, we have 
previously explained that recesses are generally reserved for relatively brief breaks to use the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
bathroom, to copy documents, or to change venues to accommodate a greater number of 
attend
ees.  See OML 2022-187; OML 2016-85.  Furthermore, we caution that the resumption of 
a meeting following an exceptionally long recess – in excess of the length of time the public 
could reasonably be expected to wait, especially in the absence of accurate information as to 
when the meeting would resume – may be considered the commencement of a new meeting, 
which would require its own notice and accurate start time.  As such, we caution the Committee 
on recessing a meeting for lengthy periods of time - in this case, approximately one hour - out of 
respect for the audience.  See OML 2017-163. 
    
Finally, we must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Although this Office has issued previous determinations finding that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting insufficiently specific notices, we 
have not previously warned the Committee against the violation found here, nor do we find other 
evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation, by the Committee.  See OML 
2023-83.  We therefore decline to find that the violation was intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by not identifying a specific meeting location on the notice for the June 21, 2023, meeting.  We 
order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and caution 
the Committee that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.    
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the  
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts – By email only:  
Medfield School Committee – By email only: scchair@email.medfield.net 
Medfield Town Clerk – By email only: mbonoldi@medfield.net  
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 