===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
June 30, 2015 
OML 2015-90 
Susan C. Phillips, City Solicitor 
59 Court Street 
Westfield, MA 01085 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Phillips: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Mr. Patrick Higgins, dated May 9, alleging that the 
Westfield Police Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Commission on April 27, and City 
Solicitor Susan Phillips responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated May 5.2 In his 
complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Commission failed to: (i) record on a meeting notice the 
time that it was posted; and (ii) post notice at least 48 hours prior to a meeting.3 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint; the 
Commission's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the notice for a Commission meeting held on April 13. Finally, we spoke with 
Attorney Phillips by phone on June 8. 
FACLS 
We find the facts as follows. Lhe Commission is a three-member public body that meets 
at regular intervals to discuss public safety and law enforcement matters in the Lown of 
Westfield. On April 10, a Friday, the City Clerk posted a notice stating that the Commission 
would hold a meeting on April 13, a Monday. Lhe notice indicates that it was posted on April 
10, but does not indicate the time that it was posted. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 In his request for further review, Mr. Higgins also alleges that the Commission failed to convene a meeting in 
order to review his Open Meeting Law complaint. Because this allegation was not included in the complaint filed 
with the Commission, we decline to review it now. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook 
Planning Board). However, we take this opportunity to remind the Commission that it must meet to review Open 
Meeting Law complaints before authorizing the City Solicitor to respond on its behalf. See 940 CMR 29.05(4); 
OML 2015-11. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The law requires that the notice for each meeting include the date and time that the 
meeting will be held, as well as the date and time that the notice is posted. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b); 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The time the notice was posted must also be "conspicuously recorded 
thereon or therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Properly posting a notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting, and recording the date and time the notice was posted enables the public to 
observe that public bodies are complying with the Open Meeting Law's notice requirements 
without requiring constant vigilance. See OML 2015-21. 
Here, the notice for the April 13 meeting did not include the time of its posting. Further, 
because the notice was posted on a Friday, and Saturdays and Sundays are not counted towards 
the 48-hour notice requirement, we find that it was not posted at least 48 hours prior to the 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Attorney Phillips stated to our office that the failure to properly 
post notice for the meeting was due to an error by the City Clerk, rather than the Commission. 
We have no reason to doubt the truthfulness of this statement, but we note that the responsibility 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law rests with the public body. See OML 2013-166. 
Accordingly, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
20(b); 940 CMR29.03(l)(b). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Patrick Higgins 
Westfield Police Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain Judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 