===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 5, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 176 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christine O’Connor, Esq. 
Town Counsel  
coconnor@northandoverma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Connor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Courtney Pham, on behalf of the North Andover 
Special Education Parent Advisory Council, on March 24, 2023, alleging that the North Andover 
School Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically its former chair Pamela Pietrowski,
1 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on or about December 23, 2022, and you responded on behalf of the Committee 
by letter dated January 18, 2023. We understand the complaint to allege that the Committee 
deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting to decide whether to create a special education 
audit oversight subcommittee.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the Committee’s 
December 1, 2022, meeting.3 
 
 
1 Pamela Pietrowski still serves as a member of the Committee. 
2 The complaint notes that on two occasions the Committee discussed the special education audit without that topic 
having been included on the notice. However, based on the complaint as a whole and the request for further review, 
we understand the thrust of the complaint to be that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting regarding 
whether to create a subcommittee. 
3 A video recording of the Committee’s December 1, 2022, meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o4ZRw7sK8og. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “ to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through 
any medi
um, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A public body may not deliberate in a 
serial fashion whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a 
meeting on a matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; 
OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the law).
4 
  
The complaint relates to an audit of the North Andover Public Schools’ special education 
program and a request made by the North Andover Special Education Parent Advisory Council 
that the Committee create an audit oversight subcommittee to assist in facilitating the audit. 
Specifically, the complaint asserts that the Committee improperly deliberated outside of a 
noticed meeting when the Chair communicated with members of the Committee to determine 
that the Committee would not create an audit oversight subcommittee.  
 
The Committee does not dispute that the Chair communicated with Committee members 
outside
 of a noticed meeting regarding the creation of an audit oversight subcommittee, 
explaining in its response that “it appears the Chair surveyed and discussed with members of the 
Committee whether any member wished to add an audit oversight subcommittee to the Agenda.” 
However, the Committee asserts that such surveying was administrative in nature and falls 
within the exception to the definition of “deliberation” allowing for the distribution of meeting 
agendas or scheduling information. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In support of this assertion, the 
Committee states that “[t]he present case . . . involves the failure to include an agenda item on a 
matter where no underlying action was taken (i.e[.,] no subcommittee was ever formed).”  
 
Although one result of the Chair’s surveying of other Committee members was th
 at the 
topic of creating a subcommittee was not added to a meeting notice, the surveying effectively 
decided the issue of whether to create an audit oversight subcommittee. Such communications 
are not the type that fall within the Open Meeting Law’s exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for the distribution of scheduling information. See OML 2022-20. Additionally, 
polling public body members outside of a public meeting is prohibited. See OML 2013-186 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
(finding a violation where the board chair asked the town administrator to poll board members 
regarding whether to close town hall); OML 2020-160 (explaining that the public body violated 
the Open Meeting Law when the chair solicited input from each of the members on a proposed 
plan and then based on that input advised an employee on how to carry out the public body’s 
plan). Here, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when the Chair 
surveyed members outside of a noticed meeting to determine whether the Committee wished to 
consider creating an audit oversight subcommittee, and collectively the Committee decided to 
take no action toward creating such a subcommittee.  
  
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law’s requirements and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an 
intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Committee, within 30 days of receipt of this 
letter, to create meeting minutes capturing the discussions held and decisions made through the 
communications at issue in this determination. Although we acknowledge the potential challenge 
in recreating discussions that occurred sometime ago and that at the time members mistakenly 
believed were not subject to the Open Meeting Law, the Committee should create these minutes 
to the best of its ability, using any means available to it, including notes and the recollections of 
Committee members.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: David Brown, Chair , North Andover School Committee (via email: 
brownd@northandoverpublicschools.com) 
 Dawne Warren, Town Clerk (via email: dwarren@northandoverma.gov)  
Courtney Pham (via f
 irst class mail: ) 
 
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
