===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass .go v/ago 
October 20, 2015 
OML 2015-158 
Alan McClennan, Chair 
Orleans Board of Selectmen 
19 School Road 
Orleans, MA 02653 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McClennan: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on June 17,' alleging that the 
Orleans Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, GL. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to his request 
for executive session minutes and failed to conduct a periodic review of its executive session 
minutes to determine what sets of minutes were appropriate for release to the public. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 27, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated June 10.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to appropriately respond to a request for executive session minutes. However, we find 
that the Board did conduct periodic reviews of its executive session minutes, as required by 
the Open Meeting Law. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. In 
addition, we reviewed Mr. Beaty's minutes request, the Board's response to that request, as 
well as the notice of and draft minutes from the Board's June 17 meeting. Finally, we spoke 
with Town Administrator John Kelly on July 14. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On May 15, Mr. Beaty submitted a letter by fax to the 
Board, requesting "public access to the meeting minutes for all Executive Sessions conducted 
by the Orleans Board of Selectmen during the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013" as well as all 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
documents and exhibits used at those meetings. Having not yet received a response from the 
Board, Mr. Beaty filed this Open Meeting Law complaint on May 27. The next day, the 
Town Administrator sent a written response to Mr. Beaty, notifying him that any executive 
session minutes that are currently released to the public are available on the Town's website 
or at the Town Clerk's office. The Town Administrator also informed Mr. Beaty that the 
Board was scheduled to review its log of executive session minutes during its June 17 meeting 
to determine whether any additional minutes would be released, which would then be made 
available at the Town Clerk's Office and on the Town's website. The Board held four 
meetings between the time of Mr. Beaty's request and the June 17 meeting. 
The Board has an established policy pursuant to which town counsel and the Town 
Administrator conduct a periodic review of its executive session minutes every six months. 
The results of that review are then approved by the Board during its next meeting. At the time 
of Mr. Beaty's minutes request, the last periodic review had been performed in November 
2014. 
During the Board's meeting on June 17, the Board released a list of executive session 
minutes that had been reviewed by town counsel and the Town Administrator on June 10. 
Town counsel and the Town Administrator had conducted a full, periodic review of the 
Board's executive session minutes from 2006 to the present and determined that certain 
minutes could be released to the public at that time. These minutes concerned agreements 
with collective bargaining units and nonunion personnel, some of which were executed as 
recently as the fall of 2014. Prematurely releasing these minutes, the Board contends, could 
have affected the Board's bargaining position with respect to negotiations with other 
collective bargaining units. In response to the complaint, however, the Town Administrator 
conceded that he should have recommended in November 2014 that the Board release 
executive minutes concerning recently finalized collective bargaining agreements. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies are required to periodically review executive session minutes to 
determine if continued nondisclosure is warranted. See G.L. c. BOA, § 22(a)(1); OML 2015-
94.4 The Open Meeting Law states that a public body must respond to a request for executive 
session minutes within ten days. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has 
determined, prior to the request, that certain executive session minutes should be released, it 
should respond to the requestor directly, notifying him or her of the availability of those 
minutes. See OML 2013-105. If the body has determined that executive session minutes 
should not be released because publication would defeat the lawful purpose for secrecy, it 
should respond by stating the reason why the minutes continue to be withheld. Id. And if, at 
the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to determine 
whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review and 
release the minutes, if appropriate, within 30 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2014-30. 
3 The Board met on May 20; May 26; June 3; and June 10, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
In such circumstances, the body should still respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying 
him or her that it is conducting this review. Id.; OML 2013-99. 
Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board failed to properly respond to his request for executive 
session minutes. At the time of the request on May 15, the Board had not conducted a 
periodic review of its executive session minutes since November 2014. The Town 
Administrator, on behalf of the Board, sent an initial response to Mr. Beaty's request in a 
letter dated May 28, notifying him that the Board planned to conduct a periodic review to 
determine whether to release any additional executive session minutes during its June 17 
meeting. However, this initial response should have been sent within 10 days of receipt of the 
request. See OML 2015-94. Instead, it was sent two days after that deadline, on May 28.5 
Furthermore, the announcement of the results of the Board's review did not occur within 30 
days of Mr. Beaty's request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2015-16. The Board missed 
that deadline by two days by announcing the results of its review on June 17. Finally, the 
Board held weekly meetings during the months of May and June, and thus could have 
conducted this review by an earlier date.6 Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the complainant's request within 10 days and by 
failing to perform a review of the requested executive session minutes within 30 days of the 
request. 
Additionally, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board failed to conduct the requisite periodic 
review of its executive session minutes. The Board's established policy is to conduct this 
periodic review every six months. The last review prior to Mr. Beaty's minutes request was 
conducted in November 2014. According to its policy, the next review should have occurred 
in or about May 2015, around the time that it received Mr. Beaty's request. Following Mr. 
Beaty's request, the Board conducted a complete review of all of the executive session 
minutes that remained withheld from disclosure from 2006 to the present and released to the 
n 
public a group of minutes concerning collective bargaining and nonunion personnel. 
Accordingly, we are satisfied that the Board understands its obligation to periodically review 
and release executive session minutes, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this 
regard. 
5 Because the 10th day fell on a holiday, Memorial Day, the deadline for the Board's response was May 26. 
6 We acknowledge that G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2) says the public body must perform this review "not later than the 
body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs." However, where, as was the case here, a request for a 
large number of minutes is received just prior to the Board's next meeting, completion of the review by the next 
meeting may be impractical. 
7 As the Town Administrator conceded, the Board should have released these executive session minutes in 
November 2014 because the agreements had been executed and thus the puipose for confidentiality had expired. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) ("[w]hen the puipose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the 
minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed" unless the attorney-
client privilege or any of the public records exemptions apply to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to appropriately respond to a request for executive session minutes. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 