===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 201 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq.  
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
ghowayeck@fallriverma.org 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 2, alleging that the Fall 
River Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 3, 2022, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated May 27, 2022.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to post 
notice of a meeting held on May 2, as the link to the meeting notice on the city’s website 
erroneously linked to a meeting notice for a different public body. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged, 
and also by convening in executive session for an improper purpose.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the video of the open session 
portion of the May 2 meeting,
2 as well as minutes of the executive session.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The City of Fall River’s official location for posting 
meeting notices is the municipal website.  The municipal website includes a calendar function 
where public body meetings are posted as calendar events with a date, time, and location listed 
on the calendar, along with a link to a document that generally contains the complete meeting 
notice, including the list of topics to be discussed during the meeting.  A calendar event was 
posted for a meeting of the Board to take place on May 2 at 2:00 PM in the 1
st Floor Hearing 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 The meeting video is available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rqot3 qMEWs . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Room at One Government Center, Fall River.  The calendar event included a link to a document 
titled “AGENDA – Board of Assessors 5-2-2002”; however, clicking on that link opened a 
notice for a May 2 meeting of the Fall River Conservation Commission.   
 
The Board convened on May 2 as scheduled, apparently unaware that the complete notice 
for its meeting had not been posted.  The Board began with a motion to enter executive session.  
The Chair described the purpose for the executive session as an “appointment with [Board 
administrative assistant] to consider employment performance and status related to a public 
employee or staff member pursuant to GLC Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2).”  The Board voted 
by roll call to enter executive session.  The minutes of the executive session have not been 
released to the public; therefore, we do not recount the substance of the executive session in 
detail.  During the executive session that lasted over an hour, and with the employee, her 
attorney, the City Administrator, the City’s human resource director, and the Board’s legal 
counsel present, the Board discussed the employee’s employment performance.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body must notice of every meeting at le ast 
48 hour
s in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Notices must include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics shall 
have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  The Board does not dispute that staff inadvertently posted the 
notice for a different public body’s meeting in place of the notice for the Board’s May 2 meeting, 
and therefore the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a meeting without posting a 
notice that included the topics to be discussed.   
 
 Next, although not raised in the complaint , we 
 address the propriety of the Board’s 
executive session.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b).  Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§  21(b)(3); see also Dist. Atty for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 
(2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... 
because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business 
in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper”).   
 
A publi
c body may only discuss matters in executive session that fit within one or more 
of the ten enumerated purposes.  See OML 2013-91.3  As exceptions to the general rule that 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public, the enumerated executive session purposes 
are narrowly construed.  See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008).  One 
permissible purpose for an executive session is to discuss “the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  Another 
permissible purpose allows a public body “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  Although it is 
clear that professional competence must first be discussed in an open session, how that 
evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable discussion 
for an executive session.  See Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. at 568; See also OML 2021-
88; OML 2015-40. 
 
 Here, the Board’s announcement in open session identified the purpose of the executive 
ses
sion as a discussion of “employment performance and status” with a named employee, 
purportedly “pursuant to GLC Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2).”  However, based on our review 
of the executive session minutes, the Board did not engage in strategy discussions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel nor did it engage in contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel.  The Board did not, for example, discuss how a previously conducted 
performance evaluation factored into contract negotiations with the employee.  Rather, according 
to the minutes, the entire discussion focused on concerns regarding the employee’s job 
performance and possible disciplinary action.  This type of discussion is not appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 2.  See Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass at 568.   
 
 I t is clear from the meeting minutes that the executive session discussion was not 
appr
opriate under Purpose 2, as asserted by the Board.  Nonetheless, we note, without revealing 
the full details of the discussion, that it may have been appropriate under Purpose 1, which 
allows for discussions of “the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints ... brought against, a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  Therefore, we 
do not order the release of the minutes of the Board’s May 2 executive session meeting at this 
time.  However, we remind the Board that executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session 
has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold 
them, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  See id.  We have explained that minutes of executive 
session discussions regarding complaints and disciplinary action generally must be released to 
the public once the public body has taken all action it intends to take regarding the matter.  See 
OML 2022-1 (explaining that the Open Meeting Law no longer authorized withholding meeting 
minutes once the public body had issued a letter of expectations to the subject of complaints and 
did not intend to take further action, even though implementation of the expectations remained 
ongoing); OML 2021-143 (finding that the purpose for an executive session had concluded when 
the public body issued a statement explaining that it had taken all the action it was authorized to 
take in response to a complaint).  We recommend that the Board review the May 2 executive 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
session minutes for release to the public in accordance with the provisions of G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f). 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice of its May 2 meeting that included a list of topics to be discussed.  We order 
the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board 
that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e- mail: ) 
 Fall River Board of Assessors (via e- mail:
 assessor@fallriverma.org; 
city_clerks@fallriverma.org; Cdutra@fallriverma.org) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
