===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 20, 2020 
          
       O M L  2020 – 107   
 
 
Templeton Board of Selectmen  
c/o Carter Terenzini 
Town Administrator 
160 Patriots Road, P.O. Box 620 
East Templeton, MA 01438 
 
By e-mail only: cterenzini@templetonma.gov 
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Terenzini: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Robert May on July 1, 20 20, alleging that the 
Templeton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25, as modified by Governor Charles Baker’s March 12 order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law.
1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 
1, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 24.2 The complaint alleges 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it held a meeting on May 27 and did not 
provide the public with real-time access.   
 
 Following our review, we find th at the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the request for further review filed with our office. In addition, we reviewed the 
notice and open session minutes of the May 27 meeting, as well as a video recording of that 
meeting.
3 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 We take this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of 
receipt of a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). See OML Declination 8-7-2019 (Pepperell Board of Selectmen). Here, the Board did not respond to 
the complaint until June 24, although its response was due June 19. We remind the Board of its obligations under the 
Law.  
3 A video recording of the May 27 meeting can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GoVkcc1F-6w. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On March 10, Governor Baker declared a state of 
emergency in response to the public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel 
Coronavirus (“COVID-19”). See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020). On March 12, Governor 
Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law during the state of emergency. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations that 1) a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be 
physically present at the meeting location; and 2) meetings be held in locations that are 
physically accessible to the public. The Executive Order relieves a public body from the 
requirement to hold its meetings in locations that are physically accessible to the public only if 
the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access. In response to the 
Executive Order, the Board had been holding meetings via Zoom and live streaming them to the 
Templeton Community TV (“TCTV”) YouTube Channel for real-time public viewing, as 
adequate, alternative means of public access, since March 25. 
 
On May 21, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Wednesday, May 27 at 
6:30 P.M. The notice included the location of the meeting as “Virtual Meeting on Zoom 
streamed live on TCTV’s YouTube Channel.” The notice then listed the specific topics to be 
discussed.  
 
The May 27 meeting was held as planned and all members participated remotely. The 
Board experienced technical issues with the TCTV YouTube channel immediately prior to the 
May 27 meeting and was not able to broadcast the meeting in real-time. Notwithstanding this 
technical failure, the Board decided to proceed with the meeting as scheduled. The Board met for 
approximately two hours and discussed the noticed topics. The Board recorded the meeting and 
posted a full recording of the meeting to the TCTV YouTube channel the next day, May 28, for 
members of the public to view.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as  
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.4 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Executive Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to 
members of the public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the 
public to access its meetings. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means 
of public access shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective 
public access to the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow 
the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 
(emphasis added). These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet 
or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id. The Executive 
Order includes an exception to the requirement to provide real-time access to a public body’s 
proceedings, but only in cases where, due to economic hardship and despite best efforts, a public 
body is unable to provide real-time access. Id. In these cases, the Executive Order states that “a 
public body may instead post on its municipal website a full and complete transcript, recording, 
or other comprehensive record of the proceedings as soon as practicable upon the conclusion of 
the proceedings.” Id.  
  
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it met 
remotely on May 27 and did not provide the public with real-time access. The Board argues that 
the Executive Order’s requirement that the meeting be accessible to the public in real-time was 
not applicable to the May 27 meeting because the Board could not provide real-time access 
“despite best efforts.” We disagree. The exception in Section (1) of the Executive Order 
specifically states that a public body may post a recording of the proceedings on its municipal 
website when it cannot provide alternative means of public access for reasons of economic 
hardship and despite best efforts. As such, we construe this language to require a public body to 
show that it cannot provide alternative means of public access because of both economic 
hardship and despite best efforts. Here, the Board does not argue that it was prevented from 
making the meeting accessible in real-time due to economic hardship, and likely cannot, 
especially where the Board had consistently used this method of providing real-time access for 
two months prior to the May 27 meeting. Therefore, we find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law where the Board was unable to provide real-time access to the meeting only because of a 
technical issue, and not also because of economic hardship. Furthermore, the Board did not 
identify any specific efforts it undertook in an attempt to remedy the technical issue preventing 
the live stream. However, because we find that the Board did not demonstrate that it was 
prevented from making the meeting accessible in real-time due to economic hardship, we need 
not address whether the Board also demonstrated “best efforts.” We commend the Board for 
posting a recording of the meeting to the TCTV YouTube channel the next day.  
 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Robert May – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
