===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 25 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Terri Cantor 
Town Administrator Search Committee  
895 Main Street 
Ashby, MA 01431 
 
Tcantor3@gmail.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Cantor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on January 2, 2024, alleging that 
the Ashby Town Administrator Search Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with you, as the former 
Committee chair, on or about December 29.
1  As the Committee had disbanded prior to that date, 
it did not respond to the complaint.2  The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by approving minutes that were insufficiently detailed.  Without reference to 
specific meeting dates, Mr. McPhee complains that minutes contained only a “very small 
paragraph” for a two-hour meeting, did not “contain” the documents used, and did not reflect 
votes taken, questions or answers from candidates, or the members present or absent.  Mr. 
McPhee also complains that minutes of open session meetings do not reflect public comments.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
response and the request for further review.  We also reviewed revised minutes of meetings, 
including meetings of August 10 and 17, September 7, 14, and 28, and November 2, 3, and 9. 
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated.  Hereinafter, you are referred to as the former chair. 
2 See OML Declination 6-2-14 (Lenox Town Manager Search Committee) (Committee not required to formally 
respond to complaint because it did not exist at time complaint was filed). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee first met on June 29.  It held approximately 
21 meetings prior to disbanding on December 21.  On December 12, the complainant requested 
minutes of the Committee’s executive sessions.  Minutes were produced by the Committee on 
December 19.   
 
Minutes of August 10 reflect that the Committee ranked resumes “according to the 
criteria we selected and entered the information in the spreadsheet.”  At the next meeting, on 
August 17, the Committee reviewed the spreadsheet and selected candidates to interview.  Over 
the following months, the Committee conducted seven interviews.  Minutes do not summarize 
the questions asked by the Committee or responses by the candidates.  Half hour interviews are 
summarized in four or five lines;
3 one-hour interviews are summarized in five or six lines.4  For 
example, minutes of September 14 include the following summary of the interview of a 
candidate: “We asked the 8 questions put to each candidate.  Maggie presented as strong in 
relationship and team building.  She presented as less strong in leadership experience.  The 
overall impression was positive about her energy and character with reservations about her 
experience and the required skills we outlined as our goals for filling this position.”  The same 
candidate was interviewed for one hour on November 3 but minutes of that meeting contain no 
summary of what was said during the interview.  On December 14, the Ashby Select Board 
interviewed the three finalists forwarded by the Committee.  None of the members of the Select 
Board served on the Committee. 
 
Foll
owing production of the minutes, communications ensued regarding the sufficiency 
of the minutes and supplementation of same.  Upon receipt of the complaint on December 29, the 
former chair agreed to supplement minutes by the New Year, to include a list of attendees and 
documents used at the meetings.
5  On January 1, 2024, updated meeting minutes, which included 
attendance and which identified documents used at the meetings, were made available.   
 
  
 
3 See minutes of September 7 and 14. 
4 See minutes of September 28 and November 2. 
5 Although the complaint was filed after the Committee was disbanded, the former chair continued to communicate 
with the complainant.  Our office may decline to review a complaint against a public body that no longer exists.  
See, e.g., OML Declination 8-17-16 (Middleborough Tourism Committee); OML Declination 6-2-14 (Lenox Town 
Manager Search Committee); OML Declination 11-12-13 (Carver Website Committee).  However, where a 
complaint contains allegations concerning the creation and approval of meeting minutes, we generally will review 
the allegations in that complaint because those obligations continue beyond the existence of the public body.  See  
OML 2016-96.  Moreover, the former chair here continued to communicate with the complainant after the 
Committee was disbanded. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  See OML 2023-56.6  Toward that end, public bodies are 
required to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  See also OML 2023-56.  The minutes must set forth 
“the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). 
 
Public bodies are required to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
incl
uding executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  See also OML 2023-
56.  The minutes must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present 
or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the 
record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
subs
tantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2023-56; OML 2016-105.  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2023-56; OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140.  A 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  Where a public 
body has conducted interviews, minutes must summarize the substance of the interviews.  See 
OML 2015-49.  Minutes that only list candidates’ names or the times of interviews have been 
found noncompliant with the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  See also OML 2023-198; OML 2022-17 
(Committee’s minutes of interviews of school superintendent candidates were insufficient; 
minutes noted that each candidate gave a statement and was asked questions but did not 
summarize substance of interviews).   
 
Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations. See OML 2023-242; OML 2021-129; OML 2016-57.  The complainant does not 
reference specific minutes as to each allegation of insufficient detail.  Moreover, the Committee, 
through its former chair, revised minutes to address many of the complainant’s concerns.  The 
minutes, as revised, include the names of members present and reference documents that were 
used at the meetings.  Where the complainant has not directed our attention to which of the 
original minutes lack this information, and the revised minutes contain this information, we 
decline to review the allegations that minutes were insufficiently detailed for failure to include 
members in attendance and documents used during the meeting.  We also decline to review 
whether public comments are sufficiently reflected in minutes, as the complainant has not 
directed us to specific minutes or specific content that is alleged to be missing. 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Because the complainant has made generalized allegations without reference to specific 
minute
s, we have not reviewed all of the original or revised minutes.  Due to the finite existence 
of the Committee, we have reviewed minutes of some of the later meetings, at which interviews 
were conducted.  Minutes of these meetings generally include the Committee’s impressions of 
the candidates, and a brief statement of his or her strengths or weaknesses.  However, they do not 
contain a summary of the questions asked and responses given.  Certainly, these minutes provide 
more information than the insufficiently detailed minutes that contained only the name of 
candidates or interview times, which were at issue in other complaints.  Nonetheless, we find the 
summaries of the candidate interviews in the Committee’s minutes to be insufficiently detailed 
and noncompliant with the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g., OML 2018-157 (“The original 
minutes condensed the 75-minute hearing into three sentences, which offered the public no 
information about the content of the discussion.”) 
 
To th
e extent that the complainant alleges that documents used during the meeting must 
be attached to the minutes, we note that there is no such requirement within the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2022-221; OML 2017-43; OML 2012-59.  However, where the Committee has 
created documents during the course of the meeting as part of its deliberations, which reflect a 
discussion had during the meeting, minutes may not simply reference that document without 
summarizing the discussion which was had during the meeting and which formed the basis of the 
document.  For example, minutes reference a spreadsheet, which was created to aid in the 
selection of candidates for Town Administrator.  The discussion that contributed to the creation 
of the spreadsheet and any discussion that flowed from use of the spreadsheet must be 
summarized.   
 
We note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving meeting 
minutes and public bodies may choose the method for approval. See OML 2023-42; OML 2020-
81; OML 2019-107. We have stated that acceptable methods include, but are not limited to, 
approval by the public body chair alone or by another designated individual, approval by 
majority vote of the public body, approval by consent of the body (approved unless there is an 
objection), or approval by a parent public body on behalf of a subcommittee. See OML 2019-
107; OML 2019-25; OML 2017-34.  Where a public body has disbanded, a parent body may 
approve minutes, especially where members of the disbanded body also serve on the parent 
body.  See OML 2023-137; OML 2020-85; OML 2016-96; OML 2012-111. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by approving minutes which fail to sufficiently summarize interviews of candidates.  We 
recognize that the Committee disbanded prior to the filing of the complaint, and we acknowledge 
the former chair’s prompt corrective action to amend the meeting minutes after the complaint 
was filed.  We recommend that the Committee or its former chair further amend the minutes in 
conformance with this letter of determination, if possible.   
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
Ashby Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@ashbyma.gov)  
Chair, Selectboard (via email: dnadeau@ashbyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
 
