===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
September 30, 2014 
OML 2014-121 
James Comwell 
Vice-Chair 
Orange Cemetery Commission 
6 Prospect St. 
Orange, MA 01364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Comwell: 
This office received a complaint from David Shepardson, dated August 26, alleging that 
the Orange Cemetery Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Commission must have met outside 
of a noticed meeting to approve a transfer of funds from the Cemetery Department to the 
Trustees of Soldiers' Memorials (the "Trustees"), because the Commission did not take a public 
vote to transfer the funds. The complaint was filed with the Commission on or about July 7. 
The Commission responded to the complaint by letter dated August 8.2 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Commission; the 
Commission's response; and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we spoke with 
Mr. Shepardson by telephone on September 17 and with Commission Vice Chair James 
Comwell3 by telephone on September 18. 
A public body may only deliberate during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18, 20(b). A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Mr. Shepardson alleges that the Cemetery Department, which the Commission oversees. 
' All dates refer to the year 2014 unless otherwise specified. 
2 There was some confusion between the parties as to when the complaint was filed and with whom. However, the 
Board responded to the complaint promptly once notified by our office that it was pending. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
transferred funds of approximately $5,000 to the Trustees. To support this contention, he cites 
the Trustees' 2013 Annual Report, which states that "the Trustees became aware of a 
Preservation Grant available through the Massachusetts Civil War Sesquicentennial 
Commission. At our request Kevin Kennedy, Director of Community Development and 
Planning, applied for the grant. We received a grant of $5,000, and the matching portion of the 
grant is available from miscellaneous non-specific donations as well as funds transferred from 
the Cemetery Department." Mr. Shephardson further contends that the funds could not have 
been transferred without authorization by a quorum of the Commission and, as he's found no 
evidence that the transfer was discussed during a meeting, he presumes this discussion must have 
occurred outside of one. 
According to Commission Vice Chair James Comwell, who also serves as Chair of the 
Trustees, although the Commission voted during a 2013 meeting to support the grant, the 
Cemetery Department has not transferred any funds to the Trustees. He further stated that the 
Commission has not engaged in any discussion or vote regarding a transfer of funds outside of a 
noticed Commission meeting. In the absence of any evidence to contradict either assertion, we 
credit Vice Chair Comwell's account, and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely^ 
/ Jonathan Sclarsic 
/ Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Shepardson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 