===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ww\v. mass.gov/ago 
April 25,2018 
OML 2018-59 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Kathryn Adams on January 24, 2018, alleging 
that the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 6, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated December 20. In 
her complaint, Ms. Adams alleges that, during a joint meeting with the Finance Committee on 
November 9, the Board secretly deliberated about a topic that was not listed on its meeting 
notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice, minutes, and video-recording of the Board's November 9 and 
November 14 meetings.2 Finally, we spoke by telephone with the complainant on March 1 
and with Board Chair Jamie Toale on March 20. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. On November 9, the Board posted notice of a joint meeting to 
be held with the Finance Committee, during which the Finance Committee planned to hold a 
public hearing on the warrant articles for an upcoming special town meeting. The Board's 
' All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Video-recordings are available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcnHYZ9EY5Y and 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SwEEsmE5Fo8. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
notice listed one topic, "VIEW PRESENTATION OF NOVEMBER 28, 2017 SPECIAL 
TOWN MEETING ARTICLES AT FINANCE COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING." 
During the hearing, the Finance Committee sat in the front of the room using 
microphones to address the audience.3 For most of the hearing, three of the four Board 
members in attendance sat together at a table in the center of the room, while Board member 
Paula Bertram sat in the audience. Ms. Bertram, Chair Toale, and Mr. Ebersole individually 
addressed the Finance Committee regarding certain warrant articles. 
Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Finance Committee continued its meeting 
using the microphones, while the Board convened its own meeting at 8:55 P.M. at the center 
table to review and make recommendations on the warrant articles. The Board did not 
announce to the Finance Committee or the audience that it was holding a meeting. During the 
Board's meeting, the Board spoke in hushed voices so as not to interfere with the Finance 
Committee meeting. No one in the audience turned to listen to the Board, nor did anyone 
notify the Board that their voices were not audible. The Board reviewed and made 
recommendations on all twenty warrant articles before adjourning at 9:19 P.M. 
Historically, the Board has made such decisions concurrent with the Finance 
Committee meeting, but did not consider these discussions a meeting for which notice was 
required. Because of this historical practice. Chair Toale anticipated that the Board may 
review the warrant articles during this meeting, but was not certain. 
The notice for the Board's next meeting, on November 14, listed a topic as, 
"Discussion and possible recommendations, if any on Special Town Meeting Articles." At 
this meeting, the Board updated the fifth Board member, Damon McQuaid, who was not 
present for the November 9 meeting, on the Board's decisions regarding the warrant articles. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. A public body must post notice of its meeting, which must include "a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of 
topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
3 The video-recording of the meeting was focused on the Finance Committee meeting, and did not show or 
record the Board's meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
public business within its jurisdiction^]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the member of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board's review and discussion of recommendations for 
the warrant articles during the November 9 Finance Committee meeting was inaudible. We 
agree. The Board, without any public announcement, quietly met at a table to review and 
make recommendations on the warrant articles while the Finance Committee was separately 
meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body (during which all 
deliberation takes place) be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(a); OML 
2012-49.4 Access must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-16; OML 
2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48. Because the Board's meeting was entirely 
inaudible to the public, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2017-40; OML 2016-140. Additionally, we note that joint meetings connote that public 
bodies are deliberating together, see, e.g., OML 2017-32, rather than separately in the same 
meeting room at the same time. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board's discussion topic was not listed on the 
Board's meeting notice for that evening. The notice listed, "VIEW PRESENTATION OF 
NOVEMBER 28, 2017 SPECIAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES AT FINANCE 
COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING," explicitly indicated that the Board would view the 
Finance Committee public hearing, not review the warrant articles. Thus, the public had no 
expectation that the Board's hushed discussion, concurrent with the Finance Committee's 
audible discussion, would be a Board meeting during which it would make its 
recommendations on the warrant articles. According to Chair Toale, in past years the Board 
has usually reviewed the warrants during the joint meeting of the Finance Committee, but 
sometimes it does not. Based on the Board's actions in the past, we find that Chair Toale 
reasonably anticipated that the Board may have reviewed the warrants again during this year's 
joint meeting and therefore should have listed the discussion topic on the meeting notice. 
G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(b) (notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting"); OML 2014-117. Accordingly, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by proceeding with a discussion of this anticipated topic. 
We find that both violations, while serious, are the result of an attempt to expedite the 
warrant review process and demonstrate a misunderstanding of the law's requirements, rather 
than an intentional effort to conceal the Board's discussions and decisions from the public's 
view. See OML 2011-26. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to make its November 9 meeting audible to the audience and by failing to post an 
anticipated topic on its November 9 meeting notice. We order the Board's immediate and 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations are available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board 
members to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Videos #1 
(Introduction and Open Meeting Law definitions) and #2 (Notice) and certify to our office 
within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the attached form, that it has complied with this 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Kathryn Adams 
Lunenburg Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 The videos can be found at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training-videos. 
order.5 
r * 1 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2018-59 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Lraining Videos #1 and #2 on 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
5 