===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
August 7, 2012 
OML 2012 - 74 
Thomas Brouillet 
Chair 
Board of Selectmen 
50 The Common 
Phillipston, MA 01331 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Phillipston Board of Selectmen 
Dear Mr. Brouillet: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Ruth French, dated July 28, 2011, alleging that 
the Phillipston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that "the Selectmen intentionally met outside an 
open meeting and deliberated on the issue of terminating/non-reappointing Doug Wheeler to the 
Fire Department, and Civil Defense as the PEMA director, and also discussed the letter they 
received from the Fire Chief regarding Doug Wheeler." Additionally, the complaint alleges that 
the Board discussed the issue of non-reappointment "with Town [Counsel]...outside of an open 
meeting." The complaint was filed with the Board on June 27, 2011. The Board responded by 
letter dated July 14, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the June 27, 2011 complaint filed with the Board; the 
Board's July 14, 2011 response; and the July 28, 2011 complaint filed with our office. We also 
reviewed a letter from the Board dated August 22, 2011, sent to our office in response to a 
request for documents dated August 9, 2011. Additionally, we reviewed the notice of the 
Board's June 13, 2011 meeting; the minutes of the Board's June 13, 2011 and June 27, 2011 
meetings; and we reviewed two emails, dated May 12, 2011 and June 10, 2011, sent by Susan 
Varney, the Board's Administrative Assistant, to the members of the Board. Finally, we 
interviewed by telephone Board Chair Thomas Brouillet l  on November 23, 2011. 
1  For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Board has three members, therefore two members constitutes a quorum. On May 12, 
2011, Susan Varney, the Administrative Assistant for the Phillipston Board of Selectmen, sent an 
email to Town department heads asking each department head to submit written 
recommendations for their department's upcoming employee reappointments. On June 10, 2011, 
Ms. Varney sent an email to the Board stating that she had placed a sealed, confidential envelope 
in each Selectman's mail slot at Town Hall, and asked each to review the envelope prior to the 
Board's June 13, 2011 meeting. These envelopes contained the recommendations from the 
department heads. Ms. Varney additionally offered that the Board members could call her at 
home or on her cell phone over the weekend if they had any questions. Several Board members 
did follow up with Ms. Varney over the phone regarding the recommendations. However, the 
Board asserts in its August 22, 2011 letter that there was "no 'polling' of the members by the 
Administrative Assistant and no written or oral deliberations between the Board members, prior 
to the June 13th meeting." One Selectman, David Bramhall, contacted Town Counsel during 
this period regarding Doug Wheeler, who was the Phillipston Emergency Management Director 
and a member of the Fire Department. Town Counsel advised Mr. Bramhall that information 
contained in the recommendations were personnel matters and should not be discussed publicly. 
Prior to the June 13, 2011 Board meeting, Town Counsel prepared a separation letter for Mr. 
Wheeler, in anticipation that the Board might not reappoint him. The Board asserts, and Chair 
Brouillet repeated during his November 23, 2011 telephone interview with this office, that there 
were no communications between and among the Board members prior to the June 13, 2011 
Board meeting during which Mr. Wheeler's appointment status was discussed. 
The notice for the June 13, 2011 meeting listed "Appointments" as a topic for 
discussion.2  On June 13, 2011, the Board met in open session to consider reappointments to 
Town offices. The minutes of that meeting state, in relevant part, that: 
Dave Bramhall made the motion that based on the recommendations of the Fire Chief and 
the Highway Superintendent, the Board not re-appoint Doug Wheeler in any capacities of 
those departments. The motion was seconded and so voted unanimously. Mr. Bramhall 
also made a motion that Doug Wheeler not be reappointed at [sic] PEMA/Civil Defense 
Director beginning July 1, 2011 and that the position and program in total be transferred 
to the Fire Chief. Because by the very nature of this assignment, the Director must have 
a good working relationship with the other Town departments, and it is reasonable to 
assume that there is not a good chance that this would be a probable outcome, and 
therefore Mr. Wheeler would not be a good choice for this position. This motion was 
seconded, and voted unanimously. 
Mr. Wheeler was not in an attendance at the meeting and, according to the complaint, was not 
2  We remind that the Board that a meeting notice must contain topics that "have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(b). The Board should have included 
more information about the specific "Appointments" the Board anticipated reviewing, or at the very least, a 
description of the types of appointments it planned to consider (i.e., appointments for employees of Town 
departments, as opposed to appointments to volunteer boards). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
notified by the Board prior to the June 13, 2011 meeting that he would not be reappointed. 
Following the vote not to reappoint Mr. Wheeler, Ms. Varney finalized the separation 
letter that had been prepared by Town Counsel. After the meeting concluded, Chair Brouillet 
and Selectmen Bramhall left with a police officer and went to Mr. Wheeler's residence to inform 
him of the Board's decision not to reappoint him, to provide him with the separation letter, and 
to obtain keys and other property related to his former positions. According to the Board's July 
11, 2011 letter, this was "merely follow-up on the Board's decisions not to reappoint Mr. 
Wheeler, and no further deliberation, decisions or other Board business was conducted after the 
adjournment of the Board's meeting." During his November 23, 2011 telephone phone 
interview, Chair Brouillet stated that he and Mr. Bramhall decided immediately after the meeting 
that they should collect Mr. Wheelers keys. At Mr. Wheeler's residence, Mr. Bramhall spoke 
with Mr. Wheeler, and Mr. Wheeler agreed to provide the keys. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open and 
accessible to the public, unless an executive session is properly convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body's jurisdiction." M. at § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. Finally, a 
"quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise 
provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
Therefore, any deliberation between a quorum of a public body must be conducted during a 
meeting. 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board collectively decided not to reappoint 
Mr. Wheeler prior to the June 13, 2011 meeting. Although the complainant states her belief that 
"the Selectmen intentionally met outside of an open meeting and deliberated on the issue of 
terminating/non-reappointing Doug Wheeler...and also discussed the letter they received from 
the Fire Chief regarding Doug Wheeler," we have not been presented with any evidence 
supporting this allegation. The Board members did not provide a clear reason during the meeting 
for their vote not to reappoint Mr. Wheeler. However, in its August 22, 2011 letter to our office, 
the Board explained that its decision was "based on the independent recommendations of Mr. 
Wheeler's immediate supervisors." Chair Brouillet reaffirmed this during his November 23, 
2011 telephone interview with this office. We credit the Board's response that the letters from 
the Town depai 	tment heads, including the Fire Chief, that were distributed to the Selectmen 
individually are what informed the Board's decision not to reappoint Mr. Wheeler. While 
several Board members did follow up on those letters individually with the Board's 
Administrative Assistant, Susan Varney, and one Board member contacted Town Counsel about 
the letters, none of these discussions involved communication between a quorum of the Board. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Therefore, these communications were appropriate, provided neither Ms. 
Varney nor Town Counsel facilitated a serial communication between a quorum of the Board 
members. We have seen no evidence that this occurred. 
Following the June 13, 2011 meeting, Board members Tom Brouillet and David 
Bramhall accompanied a police officer to Mr. Wheeler's residence to collect his office keys and 
provide him with a separation letter. The Board asserts that no deliberation occurred during this 
encounter. The Board explained in its August 22, 2011 letter to our office that, with respect to 
the separation agreement that was given to Mr. Wheeler following the meeting, "a draft 
agreement had been given to the Administrative Assistant prior to the meeting by Town Counsel, 
with the instruction that should Mr. Wheeler not be re-appointed, a copy should be given to Mr. 
Wheeler when his keys and other items were turned in. When the decision was made at the end 
of the meeting to retrieve the items that evening, the Administrative Assistant edited and 
finalized the agreement, and sent it along with [Chair Brouillet]." During his November 23, 
2011 telephone interview with this office, Chair Brouillet reiterated that no discussion took place 
with Mr. Bramhall other than the initial decision to go to Mr. Wheeler's house at that time to 
collect his keys. We find no evidence that this decision was made by the Board prior to the 
meeting, as the complainant alleges. In so deciding, the two Board members were merely acting 
on Town Counsel's earlier direction that they provide a separation agreement and collect Mr. 
Wheeler's keys should the Board vote to not reappoint Mr. Wheeler. Their decision to collect 
the keys and deliver the agreement that night was not deliberation, since it involved only the 
administrative execution of a decision made during the earlier open meeting, and not "public 
business within its jurisdiction." $ee OML 2012-63; OML 2011-38. We therefore find that it 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint also suggests that the Board anticipated taking action with respect to Mr. 
Wheeler at a prior meeting. The complaint notes that an executive session was scheduled for 
May 31, 2011 "to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather 
than professional competence, of an individual or discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or changes against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." The 
meeting was later cancelled and the executive session never took place. The complainant infers 
that this executive session was scheduled to discuss Mr. Wheeler. The Board asserts in its 
August 25, 2011 letter, and Chair Brouillet confirmed by telephone, that this executive session 
was scheduled to discuss a completely unrelated personnel matter. Because the personnel matter 
was resolved with the employee internally, there was ultimately no need to hold a meeting in 
executive session. We are satisfied that this scheduled executive session was unrelated to Mr. 
Wheeler. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law prior to, or immediately following, its June 13, 2011 meeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we resolved this complaint. We now 
consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ruth French 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 