===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 143 
 
 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian Keaney on February 4, 2021, alleging that 
the Dedham Parks and Recreation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
about November 28, 2020, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by email dated 
February 18, 2021.1  The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to timely release the June 
22, 2020, executive session meeting minutes once the purpose for the executive session had 
concluded.  
 
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Commission has not met its burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes and therefore find that the Open Meeting Law no 
longer authorizes withholding of the June 22, 2020, executive session meeting minutes.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed the notice and executive session minutes of the Commission meeting held on June 22, 
2020.  Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on February 17, 2021.2     
 
 
1 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On June 22, 2020, the Commission convened in executive 
session to “discuss complaints against, and the possible discipline of, a public officer or 
individual” pursuant to Purpose 1.  Because the Commission has not publicly released the 
minutes of these executive session meetings, we do not recount their content in detail here but 
note that the Commission discussed a complaint against a Commission member.  
 
After the meeting, the Chair of the Commission at that time issued a statement to the 
local newspaper which read as follows: “As you know, Parks and Recreation Commissioners are 
elected to office by the voters of the Town.  We do not have the authority as Commissioners to 
remove or to bar another Commissioner from participating in the office to which they were 
elected.  This past Monday evening, we spoke as a Commission and censured another 
Commissioner for inappropriate comments we collectively viewed to be inconsistent with our 
values as a Commission and inconsistent with the Town’s Anti-discrimination and Sexual 
Harassment policy.  Unfortunately, this is our only recourse.  Any remedy beyond this lies with 
the voters of Dedham at the ballot box.  The Parks & Recreation Commission has a zero 
tolerance policy when it comes to discrimination and sexual harassment.  Therefore, we acted 
swiftly and judiciously to rectify the matter to the fullest extent possible.”  The newspaper 
article, published on June 24, 2020, specifically identified the Commission member who had 
been censured.3  The Commission member who was the subject of the complaint and his attorney 
also provided separate statements to the local newspaper which were published in the June 24, 
2020, article. 
 
Thereafter, the complainant requested from the Commission the June 22, 2020, executive 
session meeting minutes.  The Commission responded to the request by stating that the executive 
session meeting minutes could not be released as the purpose for the executive session was 
ongoing.   
 
On or about November 10, 2020, the complainant appealed the denial of his request for 
the executive session meeting minutes to the Supervisor of Records (“Supervisor”) within the 
Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth.4  On November 25, 2020, the Supervisor issued a 
letter stating that the complainant’s “request and the responses that were provided to him raise 
issues that invoke the Open Meeting Law.  An interpretation of the Open Meeting Law falls 
within the authority of the Office of the Attorney General and not this office.  Consequently, I 
decline to opine on this matter at this time.” 
 
 
 
 
 
3 The individual who had been censured at the June 22, 2020, meeting is no longer a member of the Commission. 
4 The complainant initially appealed to the Supervisor on or about August 21, 2020, after the Commission failed to 
respond to his request for executive session meeting minutes.  On September 18, 2020, Attorney Goldberg 
responded to the records request, on behalf of the Commission, advising that the meeting minutes were being 
withheld pursuant to the Open Meeting Law because the purpose of the executive session had not expired.  On 
September 4, 2020, the Supervisor ordered the Commission to respond to the request.  Not satisfied with the 
Commission’s response, the complainant appealed to the Supervisor again on or about November 10, 2020.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to release the June 22, 2020, executive 
session meeting minutes once the purpose for the executive sessions had concluded.  All 
meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door executive 
session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  One such 
statutory purpose for executive session is to discuss “the reputation, character, physical condition 
or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, 
staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).   
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session 
minutes lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 
Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151.5   
 
Here, the Commission met in executive session on June 22, 2020, under Purpose 1 to 
discuss a specific complaint brought against a member of the Commission.  In response to the 
complainant’s request for the June 22, 2020, executive session minutes, the Commission 
determined that the purpose for the executive session warranted continued non-disclosure of the 
executive session minutes.  The Commission continues to maintain that the purpose for the 
executive session meeting warrants non-disclosure of the executive session minutes in order to 
“protect the privacy of the accuser” and/or “the identities of those who may have participated in 
the investigation as voluntary complainants and witnesses.”  Moreover, the Commission 
informed this office that the executive session minutes would be withheld pursuant to the Open 
Meeting Law as the purpose for the executive sessions is still ongoing and further that the matter 
discussed during the executive session relates to “personnel and personal matters” which may 
“also be withheld in accordance with the provisions of G.L. c. 214, §1B, the so-called ‘privacy 
statute.’”   
 
When a public body determines that the purpose for an executive session meeting is still 
ongoing, it may continue to withhold the minutes from publication under the Open Meeting Law.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  However, when the purpose for the executive session has concluded, 
the Open Meeting Law no longer authorizes the continued nondisclosure of the minutes, 
although the public body may assert an exemption under the Public Records Law to withhold the 
minutes, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  Here, the Commission claims that the minutes may 
be withheld because the executive session purpose is still ongoing.  Although the Commission 
explained to us the basis for its claim that the disclosure of the minutes would defeat the lawful 
purpose for the executive session, we are not persuaded by the Commission’s explanation that 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the purpose for the executive session remains ongoing so as to justify continued nondisclosure of 
the June 22, 2020, executive session meeting minutes.  The Commission member who was the 
subject of the complaint is no longer a member of the Commission.  Furthermore, over a year 
ago the Commission issued a statement explaining that it had by that time taken all the action it 
was authorized to take in response to the complaint.  We find that the Commission has failed to 
satisfy its burden of justifying that the purpose for the executive session is ongoing.  As such, the 
Commission may no longer rely on the Open Meeting Law as a basis for withholding the 
minutes from the public, and the Commission must release the June 22, 2020, executive session 
minutes, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies.  
See OML 2020-142.   
 
Although we find that the Open Meeting Law no longer provides a basis for withholding 
this portion of the executive session minutes, we do not herein decide whether the Public 
Records Law may authorize the Commission to withhold or redact the minutes at issue.  See 
OML 2019-143.  It may be the case, as the Commission asserts, that the minutes are exempt 
from production under the Public Records Law in their entirety.  We refer the complainant to the 
Supervisor of Records in the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth for a determination 
as to whether the minutes may continue to be withheld pursuant to a Public Records Law 
exemption.  See OML 2015-170. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we order the Commission to release the minutes of the June 
22, 2020, executive session meeting, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the 
Public Records Law applies.  
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian Keaney – By email only:  
Dedham Parks and Recreation Commission c/o Chair Lisa Moran – By email only: 
  
Rebecca Murray, Supervisor of Records – By email only:  
 
 
  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 