===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 6,2017 
OML 2017-54 
Berkshire Hills Regional School Subcommittee 
c/o Peter Dillon, Ed. D., School Superintendent 
50 Main Street 
PO Box 617 
Stockbridge, MA 01262 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Dillon: 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney of The Newsletter on 
December 1, alleging that the Berkshire Hills Regional School Committee's Finance 
Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Subcommittee on or about October 11, 
2016, and you responded on behalf of the Subcommittee in a letter dated November 28, 
2016.1 In her complaint, Ms. Mooney alleges that certain executive session minutes lacked 
sufficient detail. Additionally, Ms. Mooney alleges that based on her review of those 
minutes, the Subcommittee convened in executive session for an improper purpose.2 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices, open and executive session minutes of the 
Subcommittee's meetings held on December 2, 2015; December 16, 2015; and January 19, 
2016.3 
1 We remind the Subcommittee that the Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after 
receiving a complaint, the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial 
action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2 Ms. Mooney also questioned whether the Subcommittee had properly convened in executive session on 
October 22, 2015; November 17, 2015; and January 28, 2016. In its response, the Subcommittee replied that 
it had not convened in executive session on those dates. We therefore deem this allegation to be resolved. 
3 These minutes have been released to the public. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 2, 2015; December 16, 2015; and 
January 19, 2016, the Subcommittee convened in executive session to discuss budgetary 
concerns which it believed would impact collective bargaining negotiations with the 
District's two bargaining units as well as a third group of employees who were not 
organized as a collective bargaining unit. The December 2 and December 16, 2015 
meeting notices each listed this topic as follows: "Personnel and Collective Bargaining 
Executive Session for the Purpose of Negotiations (Chapter 30A, Sections 21, #3)."4 The 
January 19, 2016 meeting notice listed this topic as "Executive Session for the Purpose of 
Discussions Related to Negotiations and Personnel (Chapter 30A, Sections 21, #3)."5 In 
response to this complaint, the Subcommittee revised its meeting minutes to include a 
more detailed summary of the discussion topics, as we describe below. 
According to the original minutes of the December 2, 2015 executive session, the 
Subcommittee briefly discussed "Berkshire Health Group vote and shift to deductible 
resulting in a saving of $283,000.. .Less mitigation." The revised minutes added detail 
about the cost of mitigation. The revised minutes also spell out an acronym used in the 
original minutes. 
According to the original minutes of the December 16, 2015 executive session, the 
Subcommittee discussed "400 including 100k E&D and 70K solar.. .230K in real cuts up 
to 430k in," According to the revised minutes, it was the Superintendent who initiated the 
discussion about budgetary cuts, noting the "400K including 100k in Excess and 
Deficiency and 70K anticipated from our solar project payment. We're looking at 230K in 
real cuts." The Subcommittee continued with a discussion about leaving money in the 
fund "for renovating Monument," The original minutes state that a Subcommittee member 
responded, "6.93, role of capital." The revised minutes state, "As it stands now, we're 
looking at a 6.93% increase and we need to look at the role of capital." The Subcommittee 
then began a discussion about showing "leadership and clarity" and the need to outline a 
public plan about future borrowing. 
4 We remind the Subcommittee that the executive session notice topic must identify the specific collective 
bargaining units or nonunion personnel with which the Subcommittee is negotiating, unless revealing that 
information would compromise the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2015-14; OML 2013-129. 
5 We remind the Subcommittee of the procedural requirements for convening in executive session, which are 
not reflected in the minutes. Before entering executive session, a public body must follow several required 
procedures, including first convening in open session and having the chair state "all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose" of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Furthermore, 
when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, the law requires that the chair state publicly 
before the executive session that an open meeting would compromise the negotiating position of the public 
body. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); see also OML 2014-136. Finally, the public body shall announce whether it 
will reconvene in open session and shall vote by roll call to convene in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
According to the original minutes of the January 19, 2016 executive session, the 
Subcommittee discussed "potential cuts.. .role of union and insurance." According to the 
revised minutes, the Superintendent initiated the discussion about "the range of potential 
cuts. One possibility is exploring the role of union and insurance. We could invoke 32B 
and save these amounts 69K, 69K, 92K by shifting to a deductible plan or we could 
approach it collaboratively and share some of the savings." The Subcommittee also 
discussed reducing the number of classes in particular grades, as well as the anticipated 
retirement of certain teachers whose positions they may not replace in order to save on 
costs. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One purpose allows a public body to convene in executive 
session "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public 
body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). The Open 
Meeting Law further requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The complainant alleges that the Subcommittee's minutes of its executive sessions 
held on December 2, 2015; December 16, 2015; and January 19, 2016 lacked sufficient 
detail. When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.6 By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a 
summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do 
not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
We find that the Subcommittee's executive session minutes indeed lacked sufficient detail. 
Instead of offering a summary of each discussion topic, the original minutes read like 
short-hand notes, which included acronyms, which could be difficult to understand for 
members of the public who are less familiar with the work of the Subcommittee. See 
OML 2015-197. This lack of sufficient detail violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
commend the Subcommittee for its efforts to revise the minutes in response to this 
complaint. The revised minutes include sufficient detail to understand the nature of the 
discussions. Due to the Subcommittee's remedial efforts, including the release of the 
minutes to the public, we order no further relief with respect to the minutes. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The complaint also alleges that the executive session discussions were improper. 
The Committee contends that any discussion about cuts to the budget or District programs 
might affect the "bumping rights" of employees in the two collective bargaining unions in 
the District, thus impacting future negotiations with those unions. We agree with the 
complainant, however, and find that the discussions did not fit within the parameters of 
Purpose 3. During those meetings, the Committee focused on general budgetary matters, 
as well as proposed expenditure reductions caused by a change in the District's health 
insurance, a reduction in the number of classes, and the retirement of certain employees in 
the District whose positions would not be filled. We find that the discussions were too 
tenuously related to strategy with respect to a particular collective bargaining negotiation 
to be detrimental to the Committee's negotiating position had they been held in open 
session. See OML 2015-63 (discussion of a wide-ranging strategy that would reach 
beyond any one employee or unit should be done in open session); OML 2014-30. 
Purpose 3 limits discussion to those topics that directly correlate to collective bargaining 
negotiations, rather than broader policy or budgetary matters that could conceivably arise 
during future negotiations. Cf Attorney General v. School Committee of Taunton, 7 
Mass. App. Ct. 226 (1979) (a school committee properly invoked executive session to 
discuss freezing the wages of certain nonunion personnel because the school committee 
demonstrated that the discussion would have had a detrimental effect on ongoing 
negotiations with employee unions). 
Additionally, the Subcommittee veered away from the stated purpose to discuss 
"leadership" and a plan about future borrowing. The Subcommittee should discuss only 
those matters which are appropriate for the stated executive session purpose. See OML 
2017-10. We therefore find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly discussing general budgetary matters and topics outside of the parameters of 
the stated executive session on those dates.7 We commend the Subcommittee for its 
pledge to hold any future discussions in open session. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include sufficient detail in its meeting minutes and by improperly convening in executive 
session under Purpose 3 on December 2, 2015; December 16, 2015; and January 19, 2016. 
With respect to the Subcommittee's improper executive sessions, we order the 
Subcommittee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
7 We note that it was not appropriate for the Subcommittee to discuss the group of employees which is not 
organized as a collective bargaining unit in executive session under Purpose 3. It could have, however, 
convened under Purpose 2, "to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
G.L,c.30A,§ 21(a)(2). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
]l$M~ 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Eileen Mooney, The Newsletter 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
5 