===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 30, 2013 
OML 2013 — 54 
James E. Cornwell 
Chair 
Orange Cemetery Commission 
6 Prospect Street 
Orange, MA 01364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cornwell: 
This office received a complaint from David Shepardson, dated January 27, 2013, 
alleging that the Orange Cemetery Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
December 20, 2012 and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letters dated December 
20, 2012 and January 17, 2013. In his complaint, Mr. Shepardson alleges that: 1) the 
Commission improperly delegated its authority to approve and sign the Commission's payroll 
and accounts payable vouchers to a single member of the Commission; 2) the Commission does 
not openly read and approve vouchers at its meetings; 3) that a single member of the 
Commission signs the Commission's vouchers outside of the Commission's meetings; and 4) 
that a member of the Commission has a conflict of interest because he also serves on the Town 
of Orange Board of Selectmen and several other Town public bodies. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed Mr. Shepardson's December 20, 2012 
complaint filed with the Commission; the Commission's December 20, 2012 and January 17, 
2013 responses; Mr. Shepardson's complaint filed with this office dated January 27, 2013; and a 
supplemental letter Mr. Sherpardson sent to this office dated February 4, 2013. 
The Division of Open Government only enforces and interprets the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not govern whether a public body can 
delegate its authority to single member of the Commission; therefore we decline to review the 
allegation that the Commission improperly delegated its authority to approve and sign the 
Commission's payroll and accounts payable vouchers. Additionally, we decline to review the 
allegation that a member of the Commission has a conflict of interest because he serves on other 
public bodies. The Open Meeting Law does not govern conflicts of interests. The State Ethics 
Commission enforces the Commonwealth's Conflict of Interest Law. We therefore decline to 
1 
===PAGE 2===
review this allegation, and refer the complainant to the State Ethics Commission with any 
questions regarding filing a complaint with their office. 
With regard to the two remaining allegations, we find that the Commission did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law for the reasons listed below. 
Mr. Shepardson alleges that the Commission fails to openly read and approve vouchers at 
its meetings. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss or act upon any 
specific topic. See OML 2012-23. 1  Therefore, it is within the Commission's discretion whether 
to read and approve vouchers during its meetings, and its failure to do so did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
Additionally, Mr. Shepardson alleges that it is improper for a single member of the 
Commission to sign the Commission's vouchers outside of the Commission's meetings. The 
Open Meeting Law does not govern whether or not the Commission was permitted to delegate 
this task to a single member. Furthermore, while the alleged act took place outside of an open 
meeting, because it did not involve communication between or among a quorum of the 
Commission, there was no deliberation and no violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact me if you any questions regarding this 
determination. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 David Shepardson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/operuneeting. 
2 