===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 23, 2015 
OML 2015-27 
Michael Lombardo 
Town Manager 
577 Bay Road 
P.O. Box 429 
Hamilton, MA 01936 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Lombardo: 
Our office received a complaint from William Dery, dated Decemberl5, 2014, 
alleging that the Hamilton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that a quorum of the 
Board deliberated outside of an open meeting to approve the appointment of special town 
counsel to represent the Planning Board. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on November 20, 2014, and Town Manager Michael Lombardo responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated November 24, 2014.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we spoke with 
Mr. Dery by telephone on December 22, 2014 and with Town Manager Lombardo by 
telephone on January 5, 2014. 
We find the facts as follows. The Planning Board has been reviewing a particular 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
development project in Hamilton since 2012. Town Manager Lombardo, who is not a 
member of the Board, decided to retain special counsel to advise the Planning Board 
regarding the project. Town Manager Lombardo informed two members of the five-
member Board that he would be retaining special counsel. He did not discuss his decision 
with any other members of the Board. 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "deliberation," in part, as an "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A "quorum" is "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise 
provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
Deliberation may lawfully occur only during a noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. 
Here, the Town Manager independently made a decision to hire special counsel for 
the Planning Board and subsequently informed two members of the five-member Board of 
his decision. There was no communication between or among a quorum of the Board 
concerning this decision. Therefore, we find that the Board did not deliberate about the 
subject, and thus did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be 
pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Hamilton Planning Board 
William Dery 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 