===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 190 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Nina Pickering-Cook  
Anderson & Kreiger 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pickering-Cook: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard on June 9, 2021,1 alleging that the 
Acton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 10, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated June 2. The complaint alleges that the Board approved inaccurate 
minutes for a meeting held on April 5.2   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficiently detailed minutes for its meeting held on April 5. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further 
review, additional correspondence from the Board and Complainant, the original and amended 
minutes for the April 5 meeting, and a video recording of the April 5 meeting.3  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including. 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 Our review is limited to the allegation raised in the original Open Meeting Law complaint. 
3 A recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJK7ydi_Ei0. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
OML 2013-64; OML 2017-1047.4 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-136; 2020-105.  
  
 The complaint alleges that the Board failed to create and approve accurate minutes for its 
April 5 meeting with respect to comments made by members of the public and the Chair5 
regarding a recent local election. The original version of the minutes for the April 5 meeting 
included the following summary of those comments: “Several members of the public commented 
on events that occurred leading up to the recent elections. . . . Mr. Benson commented on the 
recent town election.” In response to the complaint, the Board acknowledged that the minutes 
“could and should have included more detail,” and took action to remedy the issue by amending 
the minutes to include greater detail regarding both comments made by members of the public 
and by the Chair. Given the brevity of the Board’s discussion of this issue, the original meeting 
minutes at issue here present a close question as to their sufficiency; however, ultimately, we 
agree that more detail should have been included in the April 5 meeting minutes. Therefore, we 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficiently detailed minutes 
for its April 5 meeting. Although not the subject of this complaint, we note that the amended 
minutes are sufficiently detailed. 
 
 The Complainant urges us to find an intentional violation in this instance, specifically 
citing to an earlier determination from our office—OML 2019-163—which resolved 46 Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed by the Complainant against various public bodies in Acton and in 
which we found the Board violated the Law by creating insufficiently detailed meeting minutes. 
To begin, the minutes at issue here present a close question. Additionally, the Board acted 
quickly and appropriately to remedy the violation found here when it amended the meeting 
minutes in response to the complaint. We do not find any evidence suggesting the Board 
intended to hide the missing details from the public—indeed, the Board posted a video recording 
of the full meeting online—or otherwise acted with intent to violate the Law. Therefore, we do 
not find an intentional violation in this instance. Nonetheless, we caution the Board that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law and may result in the 
imposition of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional violation. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficiently detailed minutes for its meeting held on April 5. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Because the Board has already 
taken appropriate remedial action by amending the meeting minutes at issue, we do not order any 
further action.  
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
5 At the time of the April 5 meeting Jon Benson was Chair of the Board.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Town of Acton Select Board (via e-mail:  
Steven Ballard (via email:   
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
