===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 17, 2015 
OML 2015-24 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank; 
This office received two related complaints from Mr. Patrick Higgins, both dated 
December 18, 2014, alleging that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with the Board on 
November 23, 2014, and the second complaint was filed with the Board on November 25, 2014. 
The Board responded to both complaints by letter dated December 10, 2014. In his complaints, 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board (i) referred an Open Meeting Law complaint to its attorney 
before discussing it at a meeting; (ii) failed to list the location of a meeting on a notice; and (iii) 
holds executive sessions in a room that is subject to audio and video recording. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to follow required procedures for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint. However, we 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching 
a determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Board's response; and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also interviewed Swansea Police Chief George Arruda 
by telephone on February 3, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Mr. Higgins filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the 
Board on November 18, 2014. On November 24, 2014, Mr. Higgins received an e-mail response 
to his complaint from Attorney Frank stating that he had been authorized to reply "by vote of the 
Board of Selectmen dated November 25, 2014."' In its response, the Board states, "It has 
become practice for the Board to refer all [Open Meeting Law] complaints to the Town 
Counsel." The Board's response further states that the November, 24, 2014 response was sent 
"in anticipation" of the Board's vote to authorize its legal counsel to respond. During the 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
A ^ SEUJ 
===PAGE 2===
November 25, 2014 meeting, the Board took a formal vote to refer the complaint to Attorney 
Frank. 
The agenda for the November 25, 2014 meeting listed the location as "Swansea Police 
Building." No room number is given. The Police Building has only two public access areas - a 
foyer and a community room. Both are located on the ground floor. All meetings of the Board 
are held in the community room, as the foyer area is too small. Chief Arruda stated to our office 
that the dispatch window, located immediately inside the main entrance to the Police Building, is 
staffed around the clock, and any person wishing to find the Board's meeting room would be 
directed approximately five feet from the dispatch window to the community room. Chief 
Arruda further stated to our office that the community room is under constant video surveillance, 
but that the community room is not subject to audio recording. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, a public 
body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to 
the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the Board referred Mr. Higgins' complaint 
directly to its legal counsel, before any discussion of the complaint took place. While we 
applaud the Board's desire to address the complaint in a timely manner, proper procedure would 
have been for the Board to review the complaint before authorizing legal counsel to respond on 
its behalf. See 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML 2015-11; OML 2014-145. The Board's failure to do so 
violated the law. See id.' 
The Open Meeting Law also requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings, 
setting forth, "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
should identify a specific meeting room in the notice, if the location of the meeting may not 
otherwise be apparent. See OML Declination 6-2-14 (Lenox Town Manager Search 
Committee). Here, we find that even though the notice for the Board's November 25, 2014 
meeting did not identify the specific room name or number, it was apparent to members of the 
public where the meeting was taking place. The community room is one of two publicly-
accessible spaces, both of which are immediately apparent upon entering the Police Building. 
Furthermore, if any members of the public were confused, staff members at the dispatch window 
were available to provide assistance. The meeting notice therefore did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
Finally, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by conducting 
executive sessions in the community room. Nothing in the Open Meeting Law prohibits a public 
body from convening an executive session in a room that is under video surveillance. We 
therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
2 We note that a public body may meet in executive session to review an Open Meeting Law complaint, if it so 
chooses. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2013-82. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
referring Mr. Higgins' Open Meeting Law complaint to Town Counsel without first meeting to 
discuss the complaint. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 