===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 4, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 40 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Steve Weisz, Chair 
Monterey Select Board 
435 Main Road 
Monterey, MA 01245 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Weisz: 
This office received a complaint from Jonathan Sylbert on September 10, 2021, alleging 
that the Monterey Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 21 and then-Chair Justin 
Makuc responded on behalf of the Board on August 4.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board 
held a meeting without posting notice 48 hours in advance of the meeting, and that no emergency 
existed which justified posting notice less than 48 hours in advance.   
Following our review, we find that the June 1 meeting satisfied the Open Meeting Law’s 
definition of “emergency,” which allowed the Board to post notice less than 48 hours in advance 
of the meeting. We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a copy of the 
notice and meeting minutes of the Board’s June 1 and June 2 meetings.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  On May 5, the Board approved hiring a grant writer to work 
on a particular grant application that was due on Friday, June 4.  The grant writer was expected 
to work on the grant application with assistance from the Town Administrator.  On the evening 
of Friday, May 28, the Board was informed that the grant writer had resigned from her role.  The 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Office of the Town Administrator was scheduled to be closed on Monday, May 31 in observance 
of the Memorial Day holiday, as well as on Thursday and Friday, June 3 and 4.   
On Tuesday, June 1, which was the first business day following the grant writer’s 
resignation, the Board posted notice of an emergency meeting to take place that same day at 4:00 
PM.  During the meeting, Board Chair Justin Makuc explained that he called the meeting to 
ensure that the Town could still submit a strong grant application, and to possibly bring the grant 
writer back to work on the grant application.  The grant writer agreed to continue working on the 
grant application.  The Board discussed a plan to complete the grant application.  The Board then 
agreed that it should discuss the circumstances that led to the grant writer’s resignation, but that 
such discussion should occur at a future meeting.   
The Board held a separate meeting on Wednesday, June 2, at 6:00 PM, for which notice 
had previously been posted.  During the meeting, among other matters, the Board discussed the 
grant application and the grant writer’s resignation, and explained that the resignation was a 
misunderstanding and that the involved individuals would be moving forward in a cooperative 
manner. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or 
set of circumstances demanding immediate action.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02.  The 
burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body.  See OML 
2020-123. 
Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an 
immediate response, that is, action that could not wait for notice of a meeting to be posted 48 
hours in advance.  See OML 2021-119; OML 2017-131; OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45.  Here, 
the Board explains that June 1 and 2 were the only business days that the Office of the Town 
Administrator was scheduled to be open between when the Board learned of the grant writer’s 
resignation and the grant application deadline.  Therefore, the Board asserts, it could not wait to 
discuss the grant application issue at its regularly scheduled meeting at 6:00 PM on June 2, 
because that would not have left any time for the Town Administrator to assist in ensuring that 
the grant application was completed on time. 
We are persuaded that, in light of the specific timing of the grant writer’s resignation and 
the grant application deadline, an “emergency” existed which allowed the Board to hold a 
meeting to discuss a plan for finalizing and submitting the grant application without posting 
notice 48 hours in advance. The circumstances were both unexpected and required immediate 
action, that is, action that could not wait for notice to be posted 48 hours in advance.  See OML 
2021-119 (explaining that the incremental delay caused by posting notice 48 hours in advance to 
discuss a matter still several days away will not always constitute an emergency, but the specific 
timing over a holiday weekend and the limited business days available to implement the matter 
under discussion justified holding an emergency meeting).  Under these circumstances, we find 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that an emergency existed which allowed the Board to post notice of its meeting less than 48 
hours in advance, and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it held a meeting on June 1, as an emergency existed which justified posting notice less 
than 48 hours in advance.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Melissa Noe, Town Administrator (via e- mail:  
 Monterey Select Board (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
