===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 17,2014 
OML 2014-39 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a copy of a complaint on February 3, 2014 which was filed by 
Amrith Kumar and alleges violations of the Open Meeting Law by the Sterling Board of 
Selectmen (the Board). The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 10, 2014, 
and the Board responded to the complaint by letter dated January 29, 2014. In his complaint, 
Mr. Kumar alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by denying him the 
opportunity to notify the Chair that he wished to record a January 8, 2014 open session meeting 
during which the Board voted to enter into executive session. 
We reviewed the January 10, 2014 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's January 
29, 2014 response to the complaint; and the complainant's February 3, 2014 request for further 
review. Additionally, we reviewed the notices, minutes, and Sterling Lancaster Community 
Television (SLCT) broadcast of the Board's January 8, 2014 meeting.1 Finally, we reviewed a 
March 5, 2014 email from you to our office, and an audio recording of the open session meeting 
preceding the Board's January 8, 2014 executive session meeting, which was provided by the 
complainant. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). Although the Board failed to make a required announcement at the start 
of a January 8, 2014 open session meeting preceding an executive session on the same date, we 
find that the violation was de minimis and that the Board took appropriate remedial action in 
response to the complaint. We therefore order no additional relief. 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the 
public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of 
1 Recordings of Sterling Board of Selectmen meetings may be found at: 
http://www.townhallstreams.com/locations/sterling-ma 
C 
===PAGE 2===
a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium ... At the beginning of the 
meeting the chair shall inform other attendees of any such recordings." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(e). 
On January 8, 2014, the Board convened an open session meeting. Chair Ronald 
Furmaniuk announced that the Board would hold two executive sessions, stated the purposes for 
the executive sessions and made other required statements, then noted the Board would retum to 
open session after the executive sessions concluded. After a motion to enter executive session 
was made and seconded, discussion with counsel ensued regarding the sufficiency of the notice 
for the executive sessions. The Board then voted to enter into executive session, and so entered. 
Mr. Kumar was in attendance during this portion of the Board's meeting, and states in his 
complaint that he wished to make a recording but was not given an opportunity to notify the 
Chair of this fact. Mr. Kumar was not prevented from recording, however, and did, in fact, make 
an audio recording. 
Following the executive session, the Board convened in open session. This portion of the 
Board's meeting was broadcast on SLCT. Immediately after concluding the Pledge of 
Allegiance, Chair Furmaniuk declared that the SLCT recording was "the only authorized 
electronic copy of the meetings," and asked if anyone else wished to record. Mr. Kumar and 
another individual stated they would be recording, and the Chair acknowledged their recordings 
before moving on to the approval of meeting minutes. 
Although the Board was not broadcasting the portion of its open meeting preceding its 
executive session, it should have inquired whether any other individual was recording and the 
Chair should have made an announcement to that effect. While we find that this procedural 
failure was a violation of the Open Meeting Law, the harm was de minimis as Mr. Kumar was 
not prevented from recording this open session meeting, and the public was informed of his 
recording after the Board returned from executive session. Furthermore, we find that the Board 
took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint by adopting a policy intended to 
prevent future violations. We therefore order no additional relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
cc: Sterling Board of Selectmen 
Amrith Kumar 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of this order. 
Sinpprflv 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 