===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       December 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 215 
 
 
Kate M. Kleimola 
Assistant City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
 
By email only: kkleimola@cambridgema.gov  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kleimola:  
 
This office received a complaint from John Hawkinson on December 7, 2022, alleging 
that the Cambridge City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was filed with the Council on November 30, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Council, by letter dated November 21, 2022.  The complaint alleges that the 
Council attended and deliberated at a training session held on October 6, 2022, that was not 
properly noticed to the public.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the agenda for the 
training session held on October 6, 2022.  In addition, we spoke with former City Solicitor 
Nancy Glowa via telephone on November 20, 2023.
1, 2  
 
1 Attorney Glowa retired in September 2023. 
2 We reached out to the City Solicitor’s office multiple times between January 4, 2023, and October 19, 2023, 
requesting to speak to individuals who were present during the October 6, 2022, training session.  We remind the 
Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that, “[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body 
or any other ... municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make 
all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a).  
Failure to respond to requests for information in the course of the Attorney General’s  investigation may result in a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2016-127. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Council is a nine-member public body; thus, five 
members constitute a quorum.  
 
On October 6, 2022, the Council attended a training session at the Harvard Faculty Club.  
This training session was conducted by Vantage Partners, a consulting and training firm located 
in Boston.  The agenda for the session included topics such as “Why: Your ideas about where 
we’re at”, “Brainstorming shared values”, and “How do we use these values across the teams.”  
The training session was scheduled from 9 AM to 5 PM and City of Cambridge staff, such as the 
City Manager, Assistant City Managers, and the Public Works Commissioner, as well as the 
Council attended the training, which focused on team building and improving the working 
relationship between City staff and the Council.  The Council did not post notice for the training 
session and members of the public were not allowed to attend. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). 
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  However, the Open Meeting 
Law’s definition of “meeting” excludes “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so 
long as the members do not deliberate.”  The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.    
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Council held a meeting on October 6, 2022, 
for which notice was not posted nor minutes created.  The Council admits that a quorum of 
members was present on October 6, 2022, but contends that members attended a training that 
was exempt from the Open Meeting Law’s definition of meeting, such that the Council was not 
required to post notice or create minutes.  The Council further asserts that “it did not discuss any 
matters that had been before the Council, would be brought before the Council in the future, or 
were otherwise within the Council’s jurisdiction.”  Rather, the Council states the training was 
focused on improving “the working relationships” among Council members and City Staff as 
well as “team building among the participants.”  After speaking with former City Solicitor 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Glowa who attended the training on October 6, 2022, we find that the Council did not deliberate 
during the training session as any discussions that occurred during the training related to purely 
interpersonal dynamics and did not involve the Council’s exercise of governmental business, 
policy, or administration.  See OML 2018-1; OML 2011-38.
3  Because there was no deliberation 
among Council members, the training fell within one of the exceptions to the definition of 
“meeting” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2023-152; OML 
2015-31.  Accordingly, the Council was not required to comply with the Law’s requirements to 
post notice or create minutes.   
 
Although we find that the Council did not deliberate outside of a properly posted 
meeting, we take this opportunity to remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law does not 
carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for procedural discussions among 
public body members about how its meetings should be run or discussions that relate to setting 
yearly priorities for the body.  See 2017-91.  Discussions regarding procedural or administrative 
matters may relate to public business within a body’s jurisdiction, such as where the discussion 
involves the organization and leadership of the public body, committee assignments, rules or 
bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body should consider or take action on 
specific topics at a future meeting.  See OML 2014-108; OML 2013-27; OML 2011-38.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Hawkinson – By email only:   
Cambridge City Council – By email only: citycouncil@cambridgema.gov  
Cambridge City Clerk – By email only: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
