===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 192 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kimberly M. Roche, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices, P.C. 
kimberly@duperelawoffices.info 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Roche: 
 
This office received two complaints alleging that the Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion 
Charter School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board by Erin McCarthy on or around 
December 4, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 18, 2024.  
The first complaint alleges that the Board failed to record on or with its meeting notices the time 
that each notice was posted.
1  The second complaint was originally filed with the Board by 
Michael Klein on or around January 10, 2025, and you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated January 31, 2025.  The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to notify the 
Attorney General of the website where the Board posts meeting notices.  
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the 
complaints.2   
 
 
1 Although the complaint alleges that the Board has failed to include the time of posting on its meeting notices since 
at least 2023, we only review the sufficiency of notices for meetings held within 30 days of the date the complaint 
was filed; thus we only review the sufficiency of the notice for the Board’s November 5, 2024, meeting.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
2 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).  The Open Meeting Law regulations further require that “the date and time that the 
notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); 
see OML 2011-45.  Recording the date and time enables the public to observe that public bodies 
are complying with the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirements and further provides this office 
with evidence of compliance with the law.  See OML 2013-44.3   
 
The Board acknowledges that, although meeting notices included the date of posting, it 
failed to record on or with each notice the time of posting.  Therefore, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged in the first complaint.
4  The Board has committed to including the 
date and time of posting on or with each notice going forward and demonstrated that it did so 
beginning with the meeting following the filing of the complaint. 
 
Next, the Open Meeting Law regulations require that a state public body, such as a 
charter school board of trustees, post all meeting notices to a website.  See 940 CMR 29.03(6).  
Furthermore, “[t]he chair of each state public body shall notify the Attorney General in writing 
of its webpage for listing meeting notices and any change to the webpage location.”  Id.  The 
Board acknowledges that, although it had consistently posted notices of Board meetings to the 
school’s website, it had not so notified the Attorney General.  Therefore, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged in the second complaint.  We note that on January 14, 2025, the 
Board formally notified our office of the website where it posts meeting notices and we updated 
our records accordingly.5 
 
Finally, the second complaint asks our office to find an intentional violation of the Open 
Meeting Law as to the Board’s failure to notify the Attorney General of the website where 
meeting notices are posted.  We decline to find that the violation was intentional.  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omissions by a public body or a                  
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.01.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law's requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  We have not previously warned the Board against the violation found here, 
nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include on or with its meeting notice the time of posting and by failing to notify the 
Attorney General of the website where it posted its meeting notices.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  The Board has 
subsequently addressed both issues and we order no further remedial action. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/the-open-
meeting-law. 
4 The complaint does not allege that the Board failed to post meeting notices in a timely manner, only that the 
notices did not include the time that they were posted to the website. 
5 A public spreadsheet of public body notice posting locations is available online at https://www.mass.gov/info-
details/official-notice-posting-locations-for-public-bodies. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Erin McCarthy (via email: ) 
 Michael Klein (via email: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
