===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 140 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Rebecca Chane 
Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission 
rchane@georgetownma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Chane: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michale Donahue on March 27, 2024,
1 alleging 
that the Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or 
about January 21, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by email on March 27.2 We 
understand the complaint to allege that, with respect to a December 28 memorandum, either the 
Conservation Director drafted the memorandum without authority to do so, or the Commission 
engaged in improper deliberation in the creation of the memorandum. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Commission’s response, the request for further review, email exchanges between the 
Complainant and the Conservation Director and other town officials, a video recording of the 
Board of Selectmen’s January 8 meeting, and a video recording of the Commission’s January 25 
meeting.
3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 As we have in other determinations, we remind the Commission of its obligation to timely review and respond to  
Open Meeting Law complaints and note that failure to do so is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 A video recording of the Board of Selectmen’s January 8 meeting can be found at 
http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7758. A video recording of the Commission’s January 25 meeting can be found 
at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7773.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission is a seven-member public body; 
therefore, four members constitute a quorum. The Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) is the 
appointing authority for the Commission. At the time relevant to this complaint there was an 
open seat on the Commission for which the Board was considering two candidates. The 
Conservation Director, Michèle Grenier, drafted a memorandum supporting the appointment of 
one of the candidates under consideration and discouraging appointment of the other. The 
memorandum was submitted to the Board on or about December 28, 2023,
4 purportedly on 
behalf of the full Commission.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
First, we understand the complaint to allege, at least in part, that the Conservation 
Director did not have authority to draft the memorandum and submit it to the Board on behalf of 
the Commission. To the extent the complaint raises this allegation, we decline to review it. The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not speak to whether an individual staff member 
has the authority to draft a memorandum on behalf of a public body. As such, any allegation that 
the Conservation Director did not have authority to draft the memorandum would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law even if true, and we therefore decline to review such 
allegation. See OML Declination 6-26-19 (Fall River City Council Committee on Finance); 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML 
Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).5 
 
Second, to the extent the complaint alleges that the Commission engaged in improper 
deliberation during the creation of the memorandum, we find that it did not. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the 
public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” 
is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.  
 
The Conservation Director explained to the Complainant that two members of the 
Commission directed her to draft the memorandum or were otherwise involved in her drafting of 
the memorandum. We find no evidence to the contrary and therefore credit the Conservation 
Director’s account of events. See OML 2016-141 (absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a 
public body’s version of the facts). Where two Commissioners do not constitute a quorum of the 
Commission, we find that there was no improper deliberation in connection to the creation of the 
memorandum. Although we find no violation here, we caution the Commission that if the 
memorandum was distributed to a quorum of the Commission, this may have constituted 
 
4 The memorandum was dated December 28, 2024; we understand the year to have been a typo.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
improper deliberation. See OML 2022-164 (finding improper deliberation when one public body 
member forwarded an email containing communications from another member to a third 
member, thus reaching a quorum); OML 2012-84 (“A member of a public body may distribute a 
document for discussion at a meeting via email, so long as the document does not contain the 
opinion of a member of the public body.”); see also McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). However, where distribution of the 
memorandum was not raised in the complaint, we make no finding as to this issue. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov) 
Michael Donahue (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
