===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH  OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE  ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.goviago 
January 3, 2013 
OML 2013 — 2 
Martin J. Rooney, Esq. 
Curley & Curley P.C. 
27 School Street 
Boston, MA 02108 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Rooney: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Joseph Abate, on behalf of Ann St. 
Pierre, dated March 24, 2012, alleging that the Melrose Housing Authority (the 
"Authority") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Authority on or about February 6, 2012, and the Authority 
responded to the original complaint by letter dated February 15, 2012, a copy of which was 
sent to our office on the same date. In his complaint, Attorney Abate alleges that the 
Authority held meetings on January 101  and January 19, 20122  and voted "not to renew" 
the employment contract with his client, Ann St. Pierre, who was the executive director of 
the Authority at the time, without affording her with notice and an opportunity to 
participate during the meetings. In addition, Attorney Abate alleges that the Authority 
discussed Ms. St. Pierre following a December 2011 meeting.3  Attorney Abate requests 
that this office nullify the Authority's nonrenewal decision and require the Authority to 
I  Attorney Abate alleges that the Authority held a "prior meeting" and voted in open session "not to renew" 
Ms. St. Pierre's employment contract. While Attorney Abate did not specify the date of this prior meeting in 
the complaint, we have determined that the meeting was held on January 10, 2012. Since Attorney Abate 
alleges in the original complaint that Ms. St. Pierre was not afforded notice nor allowed to participate at "the 
two January meetings," we are satisfied that the Authority was afforded an opportunity to consider the 
allegations stemming from both January meetings. 
2  Attorney Abate misstated the date of the meeting at issue; in the complaint, he stated the meeting was held 
on January 17, 2012 but was, in fact, referring to a meeting held on January 19, 2012. 
3  Attorney Abate further alleges that the January 19, 2012 meeting was scheduled for 7:45 AM, a time at 
which it was known that one of the Commissioners could not attend. During a telephone conversation with 
our office, Chahman Giso informed us that he did not intentionally schedule the meeting at a time when he 
knew that one of the members of the Authority would not be able to attend. The Open Meeting Law is silent 
with regard to the time of the meeting, however we encourage public bodies to schedule their meetings at a 
time that permits the maximum attendance of public body members as well as the public. 
C41 
===PAGE 2===
retain all emails and other forms of communications by which they discussed their 
decision. 
We reviewed the February 6, 2012 complaint; your February 15, 2012 response to 
the complaint; the March 24, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review; a November 29, 2012 letter to our office from Attorney Abate; as well as your 
letters to our office, dated May 15 and June 14, 2012, respectively.4  In addition, we 
reviewed the notices, agendas, minutes as well as portions of the audio recordings from the 
January 10 and January 19, 2012 meetings. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Chairman 
Frank Giso and Commissioners William Irvin and Joan Cassidy. 
Following our review, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide Ms. St. Pierre with notice and an opportunity to be heard at an 
open meeting. In addition, we do not find any evidence that the Authority engaged in a 
deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
employment contract of the Authority's then-Executive Director, Ann St. Pierre, was set to 
expire on January 31, 2012. Thus in March 2011, the Authority voted to renew the 
employment contract, which required the signatures of both Ms. St. Pierre and Chairman 
Giso as well as the approval of the Department of Housing and Community Development 
("DHCD") before it could be executed. On March 8, 2011, Chairman Giso and Ms. St. 
Pierre signed a new five-year employment contract. On December 6, 2011, the Authority 
convened an executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss grievances filed with the 
Authority. Ms. St. Pierre and Attorney Abate participated at this meeting. 
On January 10, 2012, the Authority convened in open session. The meeting notice, 
which was posted on January 5, 2012, included the following topic: "9. Unfinished 
Business: (i) Executive Director's Contract." When the Authority reached that topic, it 
discussed Ms. St. Pierre's employment contract. During the discussion, Chairman Giso 
stated his belief that Ms. St. Pierre's employment renewal contract had not been submitted 
to him for signature.5  He also relayed DHCD's statement that it was "highly unlikely" it 
would approve the renewal contract. Consequently, Commissioner Joan Cassidy made a 
motion "not to renew the Executive Director's contract past January 31, 2012," which was 
unanimously approved. 
On January 19, 2012, the Authority convened a "Special Board Meeting" of the 
Authority, which was held in open session. The meeting notice, which was posted on 
January 13, 2012, included only two items for discussion, "Roll Call: Declaration of a 
Quorum" and "Personnel: Reconsideration of vote of January 10, 2012 meeting." 
4  For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
5  We note that this portion of the discussion was not included in the meeting minutes. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Chairman Giso stated that he had mistakenly reported to the Authority during the last 
meeting of January 10, 2012 that he did not sign Ms. St. Pierre's renewal contract. 
Chairman Giso maintained that this mistake did not alter the conclusion that, without 
DHCD approval, the current contract would expire on January 31, 2012. Commissioner 
Cassidy made a motion "to allow the current contract for the Executive Director to expire 
at the end of January 2012 and to not renew the contract," which was approved by a roll 
call vote of three to one. 
During a telephone conversation with our office, Chairman Giso stated that the 
commissioners did not communicate about Ms. St. Pierre's contract outside of a properly 
posted meeting between the December 6, 2011 and the January 10, 2012 meetings. 
However, Chairman Giso recalled that he had had individual conversations about Ms. St. 
Pierre's conduct with Commissioner Irvin and possibly Commissioner Cassidy. During a 
telephone conversation with this office, Commissioner Irvin explained that he had called 
Chairman Giso after the December 6, 2011 meeting to inform him of a telephone call from 
Melrose's Mayor, who relayed complaints the City had received about the Authority. 
However, Commissioner Irvin denied discussing the status of Ms. St. Pierre's employment 
contract with Chairman Giso. Commissioner Cassidy did not recall communicating with 
any other commissioner outside of a meeting on any topic involving Ms. St. Pierre. 
Moreover, both Commissioners Irvin and Cassidy recalled that they first learned of any 
issue regarding the status of Ms. St. Pierre's employment contract at the January 10, 2012 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
All meetings of a public body shall be open to the public, however "[a] public body 
may meet in executive session" for certain purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a) & 21(a) 
(emphasis added). Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is Purpose 1, 
which in pertinent part allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public body enters into executive session for this purpose, the public 
body must provide the individual to be discussed with 48 hours' written notice of the 
meeting; the opportunity to be present during the executive session; the opportunity to 
speak on his or her own behalf; the opportunity to have counsel present to advise but not 
participate; and the opportunity to make an independent audio recording or transcript of the 
meeting. Id. 
While some portion of the discussion about Ms. St. Pierre's employment contract 
may have been appropriate for executive session under Purpose 1, the Authority was not 
required to convene in executive session. See  OML 2011-53 (a public body "has sole 
discretion to determine what matters will be heard in executive session").6  Accordingly, 
6  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the topic in open, rather 
than executive, session. In addition, we did not find any evidence that the Authority 
engaged in a deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting regarding Ms. St. Pierre. 
While Chairman Giso recalled that he might have had individual conversations with both 
Commissioner Irvin and Commissioner Cassidy,7  we credit Commissioner Cassidy's 
statement that she did not discuss Ms. St. Pierre with Chairman Giso outside of a posted 
meeting. Thus, Chairman Giso discussed the matter outside of a posted meeting with only 
one Commissioner, Commissioner Irvin. That conversation did not constitute a 
deliberation under the Open Meeting Law because it occurred between less than a quorum 
of the Commission.8  
Finally, because the discussion regarding Ms. St. Pierre's employment contract 
occurred in open session, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to afford Ms. St. Pierre with notice and an opportunity to be heard during its 
meetings. The Authority never entered executive session under Purpose 1, thus the 
requisite Purpose 1 rights did not apply to Ms. St. Pierre. See OML 2012-54. Notice of 
the January 10 and January 19, 2012 open meetings were properly posted.9  The Authority, 
in its discretion, decided to discuss Ms. St. Pierre's employment contract in open session 
during these meetings, offering the public, including Ms. St. Pierre and Attorney Abate, an 
opportunity to attend and observe the discussion that occurred. Chairman Giso's decision 
to limit Attorney Abate's comments during the open session was within his discretion 
under G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). See OML 2012-23 ("[w]hile the public is permitted to attend 
an open session, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation during an open meeting, however.") 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing a topic in open, rather than executive, session, which in turn 
did not trigger the requisite Purpose 1 rights of an individual. In addition, we do not find 
any evidence that the Authority engaged in a deliberation outside of a properly posted 
meeting. 
7  A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the public body's 
jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of 
the law). 
8  The Law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
We note that the January 19, 2012 meeting notice was not sufficiently specific and we remind the Authority 
of its obligation to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. The main topic for discussion was 
vague and did not offer the public an understanding of the specific vote under reconsideration. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Authority. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe 
any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Joseph C. Abate, Esq. 
Melrose Housing Authority 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 