===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 22, 2019 
OML 2019-37
Carolyn Murray, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Murray:
This office received two complaints from George Harris on May 8 and May 24 alleging 
that the Wayland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on March 22 and April 4, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letters dated April 10 and April 24, respectively. 
The complaints allege that the Board posted insufficiently detailed notices with respect to the 
executive session topics for its February 26 and March 6 meetings.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notices for its 
February 26 and March 6 meetings that provided insufficient detail about the topics to be 
discussed. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes of the Board’s February 
26 and March 6 meetings, as well as a video recording of the February 26 meeting.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
Monday, February 26 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed seventeen topics, including an Executive 
Session under Purpose 2 “to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording is available at https://www.waycam.tv/government-on-demand.

===PAGE 2===
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining session, including grievance hearings, or 
contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”
The February 26 meeting was held as planned. Chair Lea Anderson called the public 
meeting to order, and the chair then moved to enter into executive session “to conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions, including grievance hearings, or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel.” Specifically, Chair Anderson announced that the Board would convene in executive 
session to conduct collective bargaining sessions, including “a grievance hearing with the 
Wayland Police Officers Union in affiliation with the New England Police Benevolent 
Association.” The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session 
and announced that it would reconvene in open session following the executive session. Chair 
Anderson invited certain individuals by name who were then present to attend the executive 
session, including the Town Administrator, Chief of Police, Police Union President, Police 
Union Vice President, Police Union Treasurer, Labor Counsel for the Town, Former Police 
Sergeant Jennifer Ordway, and Sergeant Ordway’s legal counsel. The Chair did not identify Ms. 
Ordway as the grievant. During the executive session, the Board reviewed the procedures for a 
Step 3 grievance hearing and heard from both the grievant and the Police Department. The 
Board then reconvened in open session and discussed the noticed topics.
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on Tuesday, March 6 at 6:30 P.M. 
The notice listed eleven topics, including an Executive Session under Purpose 3 “to discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Wayland Police Officers Union in 
affiliation with the New England Police Benevolent Association, as an open meeting would have 
a detrimental effect on the Town’s bargaining position.”
The March 6 meeting was held as planned. Chair Lea Anderson called the public 
meeting to order, and the chair then moved to enter into executive session “to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining, specifically the grievance hearing with the Wayland Police 
Officers Union in affiliation with the New England Police Benevolent Association.” The Board 
approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session and announced that it 
would reconvene in open session following the executive session. Chair Anderson invited 
certain individuals by name who were then present to attend the executive session, including the 
Town Administrator, Chief of Police, and Labor Counsel for the Town. During the executive 
session, the Board reviewed the procedures for a Step 3 grievance hearing and discussed whether 
to deny the grievance or proceed to arbitration. The Board then reconvened in open session and 
discussed the noticed topics.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also
2

===PAGE 3===
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
Executive Session Purpose 2 allows a public body to enter executive session to “conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive session to “discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Grievance matters may also be discussed under Purpose 2 or Purpose 3 
because they are part of the collective bargaining process. See Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 73 (1978) (“[cjollective bargaining sessions encompass not only 
the negotiations leading to the agreement, but also the resolution of grievances pursuant to the 
collective bargaining agreement”). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 
or Purpose 3, a public body must identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be 
negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2018- 
139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87.3
The complaints allege that the executive session topics listed on both the February 26 and 
March 6 notices lacked sufficient detail because they did not specify that the Board was 
discussing a grievance hearing and did not identify the collective bargaining unit or specific 
individual that was the subject of such hearing. Here, both the February 26 and March 6 meeting 
notices indicated that the Board would be entering executive session to conduct collective 
bargaining. However, only the February 26 notice identified the collective bargaining session as 
including a grievance hearing. Moreover, the Board identified the collective bargaining unit on 
the March 6 meeting notice but did not on the February 26 notice. Yet, when convening in 
executive session on both February 26 and March 6, the chair stated that the collective 
bargaining session would include a grievance hearing and identified the collective bargaining 
unit as the Wayland Police Officers Union in affiliation with the New England Police Benevolent 
Association. Since the chair announced at both the February 26 and March 6 meetings that the 
Board was convening in executive session to conduct a grievance hearing and then specifically 
identified the collective bargaining unit involved, we conclude that revealing this information on 
the meeting notices would not have compromised the purpose for which the executive sessions 
were called, and therefore the executive session topics as listed on both the February 26 and 
March 6 notices should have included this specific information. See OML 2012-53.
We turn next to whether the Board should have included the name of the specific grievant 
on the notices as well. The Board argues that it did not include the name of the employee in 
order to protect the identity of that employee and the employee’s privacy interests. A public 
body may withhold the identity of an employee out of concern for the individual’s privacy. See 
OML 2015-180. During the February 26 open session, Chair Anderson invited the employee by 
name to join the Committee in executive session. However, the chair did not specifically
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
identify her as the grievant. The employee was not invited to join the Committee in executive 
session on March 6 because she was not present at that meeting. Since the employee was not 
publicly identified as the grievant during the meetings, we find that the Committee’s decision not 
to identify her by name on the February 26 and March 6 notices out of respect for her privacy 
was appropriate.
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board’s February 26 executive 
session minutes are not sufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30 A, § 22(a). The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
OML 2016-105. Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the Board’s February 26 
executive session, we note that the minutes are inadequate to meet the standard required by the 
Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Board’s 
hour-long discussions. We recommend that the Board amend its February 26 executive session 
meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient detail in its February 26 and March 6 meeting notices. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: George Harris
Wayland Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
