===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 6, 2014 
OML 2014-49 
Ms. Bonnie Conner, Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
Dear Ms. Conner: 
This office received two complaints from Mr. David Kokindo and Mr. James T. Sullivan 
on February 5, 2014 and February 12, 2014, respectively, alleging that the Hinsdale Select Board 
(the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on November 20, 2013 and November 19, 2013, respectively, and 
the Board responded by letters from the individual Board members dated December 9, 2013. 
The complaints allege that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting regarding a rule set regulating conduct during Board meetings. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the November 19, 2013 and November 20, 
2013 complaints filed with the Board, the Board members' December 9, 2013 responses; and the 
complaints filed with this office, dated February 5, 2014 and February 12, 2014. Additionally, 
we spoke separately by phone with Chair Conner and Board member William Goddard in March 
2014.1 
Following our review, we find no evidence to support the allegations that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is composed of three members, therefore a 
quorum is two. Prior to the November 13, 2013 meeting of the Board, the Chair drafted new 
rules to govern conduct of all present during Board meetings. At the end of this document, the 
Chair placed the names of the members of the Board. The Chair then distributed copies of the 
proposed rules to the other Board members' offices for their review prior to the Board's 
November 13, 2013 meeting. Board member William Goddard first saw the document 
immediately before the November 13, 2013 meeting but did not discuss it with the Chair. 
Following the presentation of the new rules at a Board meeting, this complaint followed. 
' For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In relevant part, a public body is "a multiple-
member board .. . within any ... town . .. established to serve a public purpose ..." See id. at 
§ 18. A "meeting" is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." Id. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id 
The complaints allege that the Chair's decision to place the names of the other Board 
members at the end of the rule set inexorably leads to the conclusion that a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a meeting. We find no evidence to support the allegation. The Chair 
drafted the document in her sole capacity. The other member of the alleged quorum named in 
the complaint. Board member William Goddard, asserts that he did not discuss the document 
with Chair Conner prior to a meeting, and we find no evidence to the contrary. The Law 
specifically allows for the distribution of the document in anticipation of its discussion at a 
meeting. G.L. c. BOA, § 18. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending before this office or the Board. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
V, /l ft S/l' i 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Kokindo 
James T. Sullivan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 