===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 190 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kevin F. Bresnahan, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
kbresnahan@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bresnahan: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on June 6, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 3, and the 
Committee’s former chair Chris Ryan2 responded by letter dated April 27. The complaint alleges 
that the Committee failed to timely respond to two requests for meeting minutes and failed to 
timely review executive session minutes in response to the requests. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to the requests for meeting minutes and by failing to timely review 
executive session minutes in response to the requests. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint and the Committee’s response. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes of any 
open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, must be made available upon 
request by any person within 10 days of such request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose 
for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at 
the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Mr. Ryan no longer serves on the Committee. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. Id. Public bodies have 
an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if 
continued non-disclosure of the minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the 
next meeting following such review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2013-56; OML 2015-
94.3 
 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that certain 
executive session minutes should be released, it should respond to the requester directly, 
notifying them of the availability of those minutes. If the body has determined that executive 
session minutes should remain confidential because publication would defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason why the minutes continue to be 
withheld. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such 
a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body should still 
respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying the requester that the body is conducting this 
review. See OML 2013-99; 2013-105; OML 2022-200; OML 2023-53. 
 
On March 5, the Complainant sent an email to Chair Ryan requesting “[u]nder the Open 
Meeting Law, . . . approved or draft minutes of all executive sessions held by the Wayland 
School Committee after 12/18/2020.” On March 6, the Complainant sent another email to Chair 
Ryan requesting, under the Open Meeting Law, “Open and unredacted executive session minutes 
for meetings held on 07/20/2022 and 12/22/2021” and “Unredacted executive session minutes 
for meetings held on 08/21/2017 and 04/27/2015.” By two separate emails on March 8, Chair 
Ryan responded stating that he had received the requests and that “we will work on it.” 
 
The Committee did not respond further to the Complainant until April 4, the day after the 
Complainant filed the present complaint with the Committee. On April 4 Chair Ryan sent the 
Complainant an email explaining that the Committee had received the Open Meeting Law 
complaint and providing an update regarding the status of the various minutes requested. Chair 
Ryan informed the Complainant that some minutes were still under review, some minutes had 
been posted to the school district’s website, and some minutes would be posted to the school 
district’s website in the future. Finally, Chair Ryan invited the Complainant to come to the 
central office to review minutes if he did not wish to review them online.  
 
In its response to the Open Meeting Law complaint the Committee explains that in March 
of 2022 it reviewed executive session minutes for meetings held from January through May of 
2021, and that at least some of these minutes had been approved for release to the public but had 
not been posted online as is the Committee’s standard practice once executive session minutes 
are released. Additionally, the Committee explains that it reviewed unidentified executive 
session minutes at its March 1 meeting. Considering this information, the Committee was 
required to provide those minutes that it had already determined should be released to the public 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to the Complainant within 10 days, and, with respect to the minutes reviewed on March 1,4 to 
explain whether any minutes were being withheld and why. Additionally, the Committee was 
required to provide the requested open session minutes within in 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
 
With respect to review of the remaining executive session minutes, the Committee 
explained in its response to the Open Meeting Law complaint that it reviewed minutes at 
meetings held on March 15, March 29, April 12, and April 26. The Committee further explained 
that at the time of its response to the Open Meeting Law complaint it had not completed review 
of all minutes requested by the Complainant.   
 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to the Complainant’s requests for meeting minutes and by failing to review all requested 
executive session minutes, and release those that were appropriate for release, by the next 
meeting following the request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2022-200. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
Additionally, if any of the requested minutes have yet to be reviewed or released, we order the 
Committee to review and release, if appropriate, such minutes within 30 days of the date of this 
determination and to certify to our office that it has done so.  
  
 
4 We note that where review of executive session minutes from January through May  of 2021 was conducted a year 
prior to the request at issues here, the Committee was required to rereview any executive session minutes that it 
determined not to release as a result of that earlier review. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1) (“The public body, or its 
chair or designee, shall, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if the 
provisions of this subsection warrant continued non-disclosure.”) and G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2) (“if the body has not 
performed a review pursuant to paragraph (1), the public body shall perform the review and release the non- exempt 
minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs.”); see 
also, OML 2020-23 (“Although ‘reasonable interval’ is not defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly 
review or a review every six  months to be appropriate.”). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Erin Gibbons, Chair, Wayland School Committee (via email: 
erin_gibbons@waylandps.org) 
Wayland School Committee (via email: school_committee@waylandps.org) 
Trudy Reid, Town Clerk (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
George Harris (via email ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
