===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 31 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathryn Fallon, Esq.  
Malden City Solicitor  
City of Malden Legal Department  
110 Pleasant Street, 3rd Floor  
Malden, MA 02148  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Solicitor Fallon: 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on September 10, 2021, alleging 
that the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on August 2, 2021, and you 
responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated August 19, 2021. In his complaint, Mr. 
DeLacey alleges that the Council deliberated outside of a posted meeting via email. 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s 
request for further review. We also reviewed copies of emails provided to us by Mr. DeLacey, 
which he received from the Council in response to a public records request.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73.1 A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 In his complaint, Mr. DeLacey identifies five emails from March and April of 2020 
which he believes constitute deliberation outside of a meeting. Although Mr. DeLacey provided 
us with copies of many more emails during our investigation, we limit our review here to the 
emails Mr. DeLacey specified in his complaint. Our office does not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies and will address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint in 
order to give public bodies an opportunity to address those allegations. See OML Declination 4-
22-15; OML Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60.  
 In four out of the five emails specified by Mr. DeLacey, the Council President notified 
the Council of the status of Council meetings as the COVID-19 pandemic unfolded. First, the 
Council President notified the Council that all meetings were cancelled. Then she informed the 
Council that Governor Baker’s Open Meeting Law Executive Order permitted the Council to 
meeting in hybrid or fully remote format. Finally, she informed the Council that the Council 
would not meet until early April of 2020, in order to comply with the Governor’s stay-at-home 
order. We find that all of these emails regarding when and how to meet were merely 
administrative in nature pertaining to the scheduling of meetings, fitting squarely within the 
exception of the definition of deliberation. We therefore find no violation of the Law with 
respect to these emails.  
 The fifth email at issue was sent by Councilor Murphy and pertained to COVID-19 case 
reporting. On April 1, the Mayor’s office prepared and emailed a COVID-19 case report 
document to the full Council in advance of posting the document publicly. The Mayor’s Office 
did not request feedback from the Councilors, nor is there any indication that the report was 
prepared on the Council’s behalf nor at its request. In response, Member Murphy replied to all 
recipients, thanking the Mayor’s Special Assistant for sending the document, asking how often 
the case counts would be updated, and expressing disagreement with the Department of Public 
Health’s recommendation against daily case reporting on the municipal level. On these facts, we 
do not find that Member Murphy’s emails constituted “deliberation” as defined by the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
1 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey (via e-mail:  
 Malden City Council (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
