===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 16, 2013 
OML 2013-186 
Richard Brown 
Freetown Town Administrator 
3 North Main Street 
PO Box 438 
Assonet, MA 02702 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Brown; 
This office received two complaints from Selectman Paul Sadeck, dated March 7, 2013, 
alleging that the Freetown Board of Selectmen (the "Board") and then-Chair Jean Fox violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the 
Board on or about February 25, 2013, and you responded on behalf of the Board to the original 
complaints by letter dated March 6, 2013. In his complaints, Mr. Sadeck alleges that, on 
February 7, 2013, Chair Fox deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting by telephone, 
email, and through a third party. 
We reviewed the February 25, 2013 complaints; the Board's March 6, 2013 response; 
and the March 7, 2013 complaints requesting further review. We also reviewed the email at 
issue. Finally, we spoke individually by telephone with Mr. Sadeck, Ms. Fox, and Board 
member Lisa Pacheco. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
engaging in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting, by telephone and through a third 
party. Additionally, we find that Ms. Fox individually violated the Open Meeting Law by 
sending an electronic communication discussing public business within the Board's jurisdiction 
to a quorum of the Board. 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a three member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. On January 26, 2013, Ms. Fox sent an email to Mr. Sadeck and 
Ms. Pacheco regarding Lakeville Community Access Media ("LakeCAM"), a non-profit 
organization that provides cable access services to local communities, including Freetown. Ms. 
Fox stated in the message that according to Bob Marshall of LakeCAM, LakeCAM was 
considering removing the two television channels designated for Freetown in light of the fact that 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
Freetown had recently contracted with the Town of Middleborough for cable access services. 
Ms. Fox stated, "In my opinion, we should double check the contract and have another 
conversation with LakeCAM. I will not be at Monday's meeting, but I hope you will have an 
opportunity to discuss this and determine whether or not we should re-visit a Lakeville 
partnership." Then on Sunday, February 3, 2013, the chair of the Lakeville Cable TV Advisory 
Committee (the "Committee") advised Ms. Fox that LakeCAM planned to go before the 
Committee at its meeting on Thursday, February 7, 2013, to request the cancellation of the 
Freetown channels. Early in the day on February 7, 2013, Ms. Fox called Mr. Sadeck and Ms. 
Pacheco to convey the conversation she had with the Committee Chair, though Ms. Pacheco has 
stated she does not recall any such conversation. 
Ms. Fox then sent a follow-up email to Mr. Sadeck and Ms. Pacheco to memorialize the 
details of her conversations regarding the Board's contract with Middleborough and the potential 
use of LakeCAM's services in the future, stating, "I wanted to talk about my meeting with Bob 
Marshall of LakeCAM to get the Board's thoughts. 1 will provide brief details of my discussion 
with Bob Marshall regarding some possibilities for Freetown, so you can have some background 
before we deliberate." Ms. Fox then provided an extensive outline of the contract with 
Middleborough and LakeCAM's offer to provide services to Freetown before stating, "Bob 
[Marshall's board is meeting this week, so I would like to be able to give him an idea of where 
we stand." 
That same day, a significant snow storm was expected to hit the region. Town 
Administrator Richard Brown called Ms. Fox to discuss closing town hall. The Board, which 
has the authority to close Town Hall, has held emergency meetings in the past to discuss this 
very topic. On this occasion, in lieu of a meeting, Ms. Fox asked Mr. Brown to "poll the board" 
to determine if they agreed with her that Town Hall should be closed. Mr. Brown called Ms. 
Pacheco and asked whether she wanted to close Town Hall, to which she agreed. Mr. Brown 
then called Mr. Sadeck to determine whether he agreed with Ms. Fox's decision. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge. 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 3OA, § 18. The law 
defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
1 Despite the Board's clear intent to discuss this topic at its next meeting, we note that it was not listed as a topic for 
discussion on its meeting notice. Instead, the February 14, 2013 meeting minutes reflect that this discussion was 
held under "New Business." We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed." IcL (emphasis added) 
We find that the Board engaged in improper deliberation by email and telephone on 
February 7, 2013. First, although Ms. Pacheco could not recall whether she spoke with Ms. Fox 
by telephone on that date, Ms. Fox's telephone conversation with Mr. Sadeck alone constituted 
improper deliberation between or among a quorum of the Board because two members constitute 
a quorum. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 18. Certain discussions regarding procedural or administrative 
matters may relate to public business within a body's jurisdiction, such as discussions of whether 
the body should consider or take action on specific topics at a future meeting. OML 2013-27; 
OML 2011-3 8. Flere, determining whether to license, or execute a contract with, a third party for 
cable access services is certainly a matter within the Board's jurisdiction, and therefore should 
have been discussed during a properly posted meeting. 
Second, Ms. Fox's follow-up email to the Board expressed policy positions and opinions 
on matters that were under active consideration by the Board. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 18 (excluding 
"scheduling" and "procedural" matters from the definition of "deliberation" provided that "/w 
opinion of a member is expressed" (emphasis added)). Ms. Fox's email to her fellow Board 
members provided detailed background information on a topic under active consideration by the 
Board. While the distribution of background material only would have been permissible, Ms. 
Fox's email stated she was distributing this information "to get the Board's thoughts," inviting 
the other Board members to assist her in expressing its position to LakeCAM before its meeting 
with the Committee that evening. This communication clearly invited the Board to deliberate 
outside of a meeting, although we do not find any evidence that any other Board member 
responded to this request. Additionally, Ms. Fox's January 26, 2013 email to the Board also 
constituted an improper deliberation because she expressed her opinion on a matter within the 
Board's jurisdiction. Expression of an opinion on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a 
quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See 
OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15. 
Third, Ms. Fox should not have asked Mr. Brown to take a poll of the Board about 
whether to close Town Hall for inclement weather. By the time Mr. Brown reached Mr. Sadeck, 
he had already polled the opinions of Ms. Fox and Ms. Pacheco, who agreed that Town Hall 
should close, a fact that he shared with Mr. Sadeck. A public body may not use a non-member, 
such as a staff member, to communicate on matters that the Board would otherwise save for 
discussion at an open meeting. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School 
Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not 
circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private 
messages, whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form.") In the 
past, the Board has held emergency meetings to make this type of decision, and it would have 
been appropriate to do so here as well. If the Board believes that it needs the ability to make 
even more immediate decisions on such issues in the future, the Board could adopt a policy that 
the chair or a third person, such as the Town administrator, has the sole authority to make the 
decision under such circumstances. However, Mr. Brown may not facilitate serial 
communication between the Board's members. See OML 2012-105. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
engaging in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting, by telephone and through a third 
party. Additionally, we find that Ms. Fox individually violated the Open Meeting Law by 
sending an electronic communication discussing public business within the Board's jurisdiction 
to a quorum of the Board. We order the Board to disclose the content of Ms. Fox's January 26, 
2013 and February 7, 2013 emails at a properly posted open meeting. We also order immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. Fhis 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Flanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Paul Sadeck 
Freetown Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 