===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 16, 2019 
OML 2019-117
Frank K. Duffy, Esq.
Town Counsel 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Duffy:
This office received a complaint from Frances Parks on January 22, 2019; a complaint 
from Marc Finneran on February 1, 2019; and a complaint from Michael Heylin on February 19, 
2019, alleging that the Falmouth Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint by Mr. Heylin was originally filed with the Board on 
December 16; the complaint by Ms. Parks was originally filed with the Board on December 17; 
and the complaint by Mr. Finneran was originally filed with the Board on December 18. You 
responded to all three complaints, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated January 3, 
2019. Each complaint alleges that the Board’s November 19 meeting notice contained 
insufficient detail about an anticipated discussion topic, a syringe access program.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to include sufficient detail that the Board would be discussing and approving a syringe access 
program. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to include the 
location of the program on the notice, however. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the 
Board’s July 30, August 13, September 10, November 19, January 12, 2019, and February 13, 
2019, meetings; a July 2018 letter from the AIDS Support Group of Cape Cod (“ASGCC”) to the 
Board; and a November 20 letter from Falmouth Health Agent Scott McGann to the 
Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Finally, we spoke with Mr. Finneran by telephone 
on June 11, 2019; with Ms. Parks by telephone on August 9, 2019; and with you by email on 
August 12, 2019, and August 22, 2019.
o
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. “The department of public health may implement needle 
exchange programs for the exchange of needles in cities and towns. Prior to implementation of a 
needle exchange program, approval shall be obtained from the board of health in the hosting city 
or town.'’ G.L. c. 111, § 215.
In July of 2018, ASGCC sent a letter to the Board requesting “official approval... with a 
letter from the Health Agent” so as to receive funding from the Massachusetts Department of 
Public Health for a “syringe access program” in the Town of Falmouth. The syringe access 
program would include syringe retrieval, disposal, and distribution in Falmouth.
During a July 30 meeting, the Board met with Katie Riconda, Director of Prevention and 
Screening with ASGCC, who explained that the mission of ASGCC is to provide clean needle 
access to help prevent the spread of certain infectious diseases. Ms. Riconda stated that ASGCC 
would like to increase programs in Falmouth by having a syringe access program. The Board 
raised concerns about the location of such a program and wanted other Town departments, such 
as the Planning Department, Police Department and Town Council to be involved. Health Agent 
McGann agreed to contact these stakeholders. Ms. Riconda agreed to update the Board on any 
proposed location for the syringe access program and mentioned that a letter of support from the 
Board “would get the ball rolling” for such a program.
The Board then met on August 13 and September 10. The notices for both meetings 
included the topic “AIDS Support Group of Cape Cod update.” During the August 13 meeting, 
Health Agent McGann reported that he had met with the Town Manager, Town Counsel,' 
Building Commissioner, and Town Planner regarding the ASGCC’s syringe access program and 
that any non-residential location would be appropriate for the proposed program. During the 
September 10 meeting, Health Agent McGann stated that a location for the syringe access 
program had not yet been determined.
On November 16, the Town Manager emailed the Board of Selectmen, Health Agent 
McGann, the Assistant Town Manager, Town Counsel, Town Planner and Chief of Police 
advising that ASGCC would be moving into office space at 178 East Falmouth Highway in 
Falmouth. The email indicated that this location would also be the site for ASGCC’s syringe 
access program. This email was not sent to the Board; rather, the Board first learned of the 
location of the program during its November 19 meeting when advised by the Health Agent.
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 19 at 6:30 P.M. The 
notice included eight topics, one of which was “AIDS Support Group of Cape Cod.”
Specifically, this topic included two subtopics: “Discussion of the AIDS Support Group’s plans 
in Falmouth” and “Seeing [sic] formal letter of support from the Board of Health.”
The November 19 meeting was held as planned. Health Agent McGann informed the 
Board that ASGCC had chosen a location for its syringe access program at 178 East Falmouth 
Highway. Representatives from ASGCC then requested a letter of support for the syringe access 
program so as to be eligible for state funding. The Board unanimously voted to have “the health 
agent write a letter of support on behalf of the Board of Health for the AIDS Support Group of 
Cape Cod’s proposed location.”
2

===PAGE 3===
By letter dated November 20, Health Agent McGann advised the Department of Public 
Health that “the Falmouth Board of Health voted positively to support the syringe exchange 
program proposed by the AIDS Support Group of Cape Cod at their proposed location at 178 
East Falmouth Highway, Falmouth MA. The Board of Health supports the various AIDS 
Support Group of Cape Cod programs outlined in their prevention and screening proposal 
including screenings, overdose prevention education, health services and substance abuse 
treatment.”
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on Saturday, January 12, 2019, at 
9:00 A.M. The notice included one topic, “Discussion of the Tetter of support’ provided to the 
Massachusetts Department of Public Health on behalf of the AIDS Support Group of Cape Cod 
for the premises at 178 East Falmouth Highway, East Falmouth, MA. Originally voted on 
November 19, 2018.”
The January 12, 2019, meeting was held as planned. Over 150 individuals attended the 
meeting. The Board explained ASGCC’s purpose and the need for a syringe access program.
The Board admitted that there was probably no ideal location for such a program but that the 
Board had no authority to determine or restrict a location for the program. The Board then heard 
from approximately 28 citizens. Members of the public requested that the Board rescind its letter 
of support and the Board unanimously voted to reconsider its November 19 vote at a meeting in 
February.
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 13, 2019, at 6:30 P.M. 
The notice listed “Further discussion, review of answers to community questions and 
reconsideration of the November 19, 2018 vote to support the AIDS Support Group of Cape Cod 
program, including syringe access” as its main topic of discussion.
The February 13, 2019, meeting was held as planned. The Board heard from ASGCC 
staff regarding their priorities for helping those in need and safety within the community.
ASGCC then responded to questions and concerns from the community and the Board. The 
Board adjourned without moving to reconsider its November 19 vote or rescinding its letter of 
support.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well 
as “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity 
to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 2011-44.2
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
All three complaints allege that the notice for the Board’s November 19 meeting lacked 
sufficient detail with respect to the ASGCC topic because the topic did not specifically reference 
the syringe access program or include its proposed location. Here, the November 19 meeting 
notice included two subtopics under the ASGCC main heading - “Discussion of the AIDS 
Support Group’s plans in Falmouth” and “Seeing [sic] formal letter of support from the Board of 
Health.” The discussions regarding these topics during the November 19 meeting related to the 
approval of a syringe access program in Falmouth. The law requires that any needle exchange 
program receive support from the board of health in the town that will host such program. See 
G. L. c. 111, § 215. Although the notice referenced the AIDS Support Group, the notice 
included no mention of the nature of ASGCC’s plans or of the type of project for which ASGCC 
would be seeking the Board’s support. The meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of 
the public that the Board would be discussing and approving a syringe access program - a topic 
that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public interest. As such, we find that the topics that 
were listed on the notice, without more, did not adequately inform the public of the nature of the 
discussions that would occur during the meeting. See OML 2018-38. Therefore, the meeting 
notice did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the Board would be discussing and 
approving a syringe access program. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to sufficiently describe the topic on the November 19 meeting notice.
However, we find that the Board did not know the anticipated location of the syringe 
access program until the November 19 meeting when the Health Agent specifically informed 
them that ASGCC had chosen 178 East Falmouth Highway as its new office address, and 
consequently location of the syringe access program as well. Because the Board was not aware 
of the location until the day of the meeting, the chair could not have reasonably anticipated its 
discussion 48 hours prior to the meeting. Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include the location of the program on the notice. See OML 2017-64.
Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficiently detailed notice, we find that the Board acknowledged citizens’ concerns after its 
November 19 vote, held a public hearing on January 12, 2019, and further reviewed the' syringe 
access program during its February 13, 2019, meeting. As such, we order no further remedial 
action.
Finally, the complaints suggest that the Board did not allow for public input at its 
November 19 meeting prior to approving the syringe access program. The Open Meeting Law 
states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, 
and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). It is not a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic without first taking 
comments from the public. See OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59; OML 2012-23. The law does 
not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather gives the chair of the public 
body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting. See OML 2017- 
189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as 
much public participation as time and circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014- 
129; OML 2012-59.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post a sufficiently detailed notice for its November 19 meeting. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution the Board that a 
similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
Assisted by: Stephen Delcuze, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government
cc: Frances Parks
Marc Finneran 
Michael Heylin 
Falmouth Board of Health
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
