===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 30, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 164 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Deborah Steenland, Esq. 
Deputy General Counsel  
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
135 Santilli Highway 
Everett, MA 02149-1962 
deborah.steenland@mass.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Steenland:  
 
This office received complaints from Shannon Llewellyn and Catherine Vitale on July 29 
and August 6,1 respectively, alleging that the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2  The complaints originally 
were filed with the Board on June 18; you responded on behalf of the Board by separate letter to 
each complainant dated July 24.  The complaints allege that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it required that members of the public present identification and sign in to 
gain entry to the Board’s May 21 meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, 
the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ requests for further review.  We 
also reviewed the notice of the May 21 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on May 
21.  The notice identified the location of the meeting as the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education, 135 Santilli Highway, Everett, Massachusetts 02149 and stated that the 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 The first page of each complaint identifies the public body as the Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education.  The complaints also reference “BESE,” an acronym commonly used to identify the Board.  Although the 
meeting was held at offices of the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (“the Department”), it was 
the Board that held the meeting.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting would be livestreamed and recorded.  The notice included a link to access the 
livestream.  The Board’s policy regarding public comment also was incorporated into the notice, 
and included the following statement: “If time permits, the Chair will allow members of the 
public who have not contacted the Department in advance to speak in the public comment 
period; those individuals must sign in prior to the start of the meeting.”   
 
When the complainants reached the lobby of the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education (“the Department”) on May 21, intending to attend the meeting, they were 
asked to provide their names and to show identification to enter the Department’s offices, where 
the meeting was to be held.  The Department’s security policy, as reflected in signage in the 
lobby, requires that visitors show photo identification and sign in to enter the offices.  Ms. 
Llewellyn voiced her discomfort with providing the requested information.  A person she 
believed to be a security guard told her “One of the things that we require for people to come 
into our space is to sign them in.”  Ms. Vitale was told the policy was established for security 
and safety “so we know who is in the building if there’s any emergencies” and “to prevent 
disruption of events like board meetings.”  The Associate Commissioner of the Department in 
charge of building operations, Bill Bell, informed Ms. Llewellyn: “You cannot attend without 
identifying yourselves.”  According to Ms. Vitale, the policy has been in effect since at least 
May 2021.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) 
(except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public.”); OML 2023-10.3  Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2016-54; OML 2014-19.  Under some circumstances, a 
public body may require that attendees identify themselves without running afoul of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See, e.g., OML 2015-92 (security policy requiring photo identification for 
admission to offices could be enforced as to persons entering offices to attend public meeting).  
Security policies such as the one at issue here, requiring that all visitors present photo 
identification to enter government offices, whether for a public meeting or other purpose, are 
commonplace.  Consistent enforcement of the policy at a public meeting did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
Although we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, we encourage the Board to state 
its policy clearly in the notices of its meetings.  The meeting notice implied that only those who 
wish to participate in public comment must sign in.4  Those who may object to the Board’s 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
4 Requiring members of the public to identify themselves on a sign-up sheet is a permissible exercise of the chair's 
discretion to set the terms of public comment.  See OML 2022-188; OML 2020-114; OML 2018-116. 
 
===PAGE 3===
policy should be made aware prior to arrival that signing in is a prerequisite to attendance, not
only to public comment. Such clear advance notice will facilitate an informed decision whether
to attend remotely and is especially germane to a meeting of a state-wide board, to which people
may be traveling from all corners of the Commonwealth. Finally, we "remind the Board of its
obligation to take reasonable steps to accommodate members of the public." See OML 2015-92.
Security policies may not be used as a pretext to discourage public attendance at public meetings.
As we have noted previously, "It]his office looks at such restrictions with a critical eye and we
generally discourage any policy that excludes interested members of the public." Id.
We briefly address other allegations raised in the complaints. The complainants allege
that enforcement of the security policy at a public meeting creates an unwelcome atmosphere and
is embarrassing. They also complain that Department employees resisted identifying themselves
during their interactions about the sign-in policy. Finally, Ms. Llewellyn claims that the Board
violated her constitutional rights. Our office is tasked with enforcement of the Open Meeting
Law, which is not implicated by any of these allegations. In her request for review, Ms.
Llewellyn expresses a preference for attending Board meetings in person, rather than remotely.
As noted above, however, the Board's decision to hold the meeting in person, subject to the
above-described security policy, with an option to livestream, is compliant with the Open
Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law as alleged in the complaints. We now consider the complaints addressed by this
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may
be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel fiee to contact the Division at (617) 963 -
2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt fou
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Shannon Llewellyn (via email
Catherine Vitale (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. C. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3