===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
David S. Mackey, Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk St, 21st Floor 
Boston, MA 02109 
July 3, 2018 
OML 2018-101 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www, mass. go v/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mackey: 
This office received a complaint from Nicholas Catt, dated June 12, alleging that the 
Martha's Vineyard Airport Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on April 24, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated May 16, In his complaint, Mr. Catt alleges that 
the Commission improperly convened in executive session on April 12, and that the Commission 
failed to properly post notice of its planned executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's 
response to the complaint, and the complainant's request for further review. We also reviewed 
the notice and open session minutes of the Commission's April 12 meeting. We also reviewed, 
in camera, the minutes of an executive session also held on April 12. Finally, we spoke to the 
Commission's legal counsel by telephone on June 22.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a seven-member public body 
responsible for the care and operation of the Martha's Vineyard Airport and the square mile of 
land upon which the airport is located. Nicholas Catt is the owner of the Airport Laundromat, 
which operates out of a building under the Commission's jurisdiction. As a result of a dispute 
over recent wastewater rate increases, the Commission alleges that Mr. Catt owed the 
Commission more than $100,000 on the date of the alleged violation. 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
On April 9, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 12. The 
meeting notice included an agenda item which read as follows: "Consideration of Airport 
Laundromat Lease Default." In addition to this notice, the Commission sent an email to Mr. Catt 
informing him of the discussion to be held and inviting him to attend the meeting. On April 12, 
less than three hours before the meeting was scheduled to start, Mr. Catt's attorney sent a letter 
to the Commission requesting that the discussion of the alleged lease default be postponed to the 
next regularly scheduled meeting. In that letter, Mr. Beach stated that Mr. Catt believed that the 
agenda item served as a pretext to terminate Mr. Catt's lease without cause. In addition, he 
wrote that "should the MVAC proceed in its discussions and deliberations about my client's 
lease at today's hearing, any decision arising from those deliberations will be subject 
nullification [sic] through Open Meeting Law litigation." 
The Commission convened the April 12 meeting as planned, and voted to enter executive 
session under Purpose 3 to discuss strategy with respect to litigation concerning the Airport 
Laundromat lease default. Before entering into executive session, the Commission chair stated 
the purpose of the executive session, and the Commission voted unanimously to proceed. The 
minutes of the executive session have not been released to the public, and thus we do not recount 
them in detail here. We note generally that, as disclosed in the Commission's response to this 
complaint, the Commission's legal counsel advised the Commission on potential litigation 
strategies for both affirmative and defensive litigation following the April 12 letter from the 
complainant's attorney. Following this discussion, the Commission reconvened in open session, 
and voted to terminate Mr. Catt's lease should he fail to come to an agreement with the 
Commission regarding his outstanding debts within 14 days. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter into executive session for any 
of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
permissible reason to hold an executive session is "to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the collective 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive 
session Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30.3 Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Powers v. Freetown-Lakeville 
Reg'l Sch. Dist. Comm., 392 Mass. 656, 659 (1984); OML 2012-43. When entering into 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation matter or 
bargaining unit that it intends to discuss, if doing so will not compromise the executive session 
purpose. See OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91. While we generally defer to a public body's 
assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for an 
executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if 
challenged. See OML 2012-118. A public body may meet in executive session to determine 
whether or not to bring a lawsuit. See OML 2017-176. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Here, the complaint alleges that the Commission convened in executive session without a 
proper statutory purpose. We find that it was appropriate for the Commission to convene in 
executive session both in response to a perceived threat of litigation and in order to discuss the 
possibility of initiating a lawsuit. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2017-176. The April 12 
letter from the complainant's attorney warned the Commission that any decision arising from 
deliberations conducted at the meeting would be subject to nullification through Open Meeting 
Law litigation. A reasonable person would read such a statement as threatening litigation, should 
the Commission proceed with its deliberations. We therefore find that the Commission properly 
met in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss its litigation strategy with respect to this 
matter. See G.L. e. 30A, § 21(a)(3). In addition, the executive session discussion concerned 
whether or not to bring affirmative litigation. A public body may meet in executive session 
under Purpose 3 to discuss the merits of bringing a lawsuit. See OML 2017-176. Because this is 
what transpired here, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
The complaint also alleges that the Commission failed to list the April 12 executive 
session on the meeting notice. Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body is required to post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
meeting notice must include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting. Id. Here, the Board did not receive Attorney Beach's letter until less 
than 3 hours before the meeting. The chair could not have anticipated the threat of litigation, and 
thus was not required to post notice of the executive session discussion related to that threat. See 
id. Therefore, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
ce: Harry Beach, Esq. 
Martha's Vineyard Airport Commission 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 