===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 28, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 97  
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Ronald E. Aponte 
Brookfield Town Administrator 
6 Central Street  
Brookfield, MA 01506 
townadministrator@brookfieldma.us 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Aponte: 
 
 On April 8, 2025, this office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher, alleging 
that the Brookfield Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on March 1 and you responded on 
behalf of the Board on April 8.
1 The complaint alleges the Board improperly removed two 
members of the public from a meeting it held on February 26.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review.  We also viewed a recording of the 
February 26 meeting.
2  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held a meeting on February 26.  Approximately 
26 minutes into the meeting, a member of the public called out “May I ask a question?”  The 
chair responded “No.  There’s no public comment tonight.  I’m sorry.”  The member of the 
public, who was off-camera and is difficult to hear on the recording, responded with something 
like “Oh jeez.  Wow.  Let’s go.”  A second member of the public, presumably an acquaintance of 
the first, then spoke up, seemingly about an inability to access a document.    The chair again 
advised that there would be no public comment and offered to speak with the person after the 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We accessed the recording at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cb9OVjmPdqc&list=PLEZBtq345cqxTsyUZb2lRqUv8v- R5_5i5&index=3.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting.  The two members of the public continued to speak over the chair until she announced, 
thirty seconds into the exchange, “you have to leave.”  Another member of the Board also told 
them at that time to leave the meeting.  As the back and forth continued, the chair again advised 
that there would be no public comment and that if she had to tell them again, she would “call an 
officer” to have the speakers removed.  Nonetheless, these two individuals continued to interrupt, 
prompting the chair to tell them to “please go.”  Approximately 30 seconds later, the two 
individuals left the meeting without the need to call an officer.  The entire exchange lasted one 
and a half minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2024-130; OML 2020-100; OML 
2016-54.3  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation 
during its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(g).  The Law further provides: “No person shall disrupt the 
proceedings of a meeting of a public body.  If, after clear warning from the chair, a 
person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the person to withdraw from the 
meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may authorize a constable or other officer 
to remove the person from the meeting.”  Id.  Removal of an individual from a public meeting 
should be used only as a last resort when a person continues to disrupt a meeting despite 
directives to the contrary or in cases of violent, threatening, or abusive behavior.  See OML 
2024-7; OML 2018-77; OML 2013-135. 
 
Although it is a close question, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when two members of the public were asked to leave the meeting before being given a clear 
warning that their continued interruptions could lead to their removal.  The complainant 
speculates that the members of the public who interrupted the February 26 meeting were new to 
open meetings and that their behavior can be attributed to their inexperience.  This explanation is 
too charitable.  The tone, especially of the first speaker, was confrontational and sarcastic.  Both 
speakers were told repeatedly and clearly that there would be no public comment yet they 
continued to purposefully interrupt the chair, thereby preventing the Board from conducting its 
business.  The first speaker called the chair “absurd” as they left the meeting.  Disruptive 
behavior notwithstanding, the Open Meeting Law is explicit that the chair must issue a clear 
warning prior to ordering a person to withdraw from the meeting.  Here, the chair repeatedly 
stated that there would be no public comment but did not issue a warning prior to telling the 
disruptive individuals to leave the meeting.  As a result, the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law.   
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
We acknowledge the chair’s good faith efforts to regain control of the meeting.  She 
explained on several occasions that there was no public comment (explanations that were largely 
ignored) and offered to answer questions after the meeting.  Moreover, the interruptions clearly 
were disruptive; a request to leave the meeting would have been appropriate had a warning first 
been issued.  See, e.g., OML 2024-130 (“The complainant’s persistent interruptions hampered 
the Commission’s ability to do its work.”); Cf. OML 2023-211 (complainant’s behavior did not 
rise to level of disrupting meeting where complainant complied with instructions to stop 
speaking.)  However, before a disruptive person can be asked to leave a public meeting, they 
must be issued a clear warning.  This was not done.  Moreover, to the extent that a warning is not 
required where the interrupting party engages in threatening behavior, see OML 2022-197, there 
was no threat to the Board here. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the chair asked two unidentified members of the public to leave its February 26 meeting 
without first issuing a warning that their continued disruption could lead to their exclusion from 
the meeting.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law’s requirements and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher ( via email: )   
 Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
