===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 165 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Frank Stringi  
Chair, Revere Site Plan Review Committee 
fstringi@revere.org   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Stringi: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Michael Rosen on behalf of his clients 
Durant Performance Coatings, Inc. and Burbank Realty, LLC on February 14, 2022, alleging that 
the Revere Site Plan Review Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
December 13, 2021. The Committee did not initially respond to the complaint, but after a request 
from our office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 20, 2022.
1 
The complaint alleges that during the Committee’s November 16, 2021, meeting the Committee 
improperly discussed an application related to property at 44 Railroad Street in Revere without 
including that topic on the notice for the meeting.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes of the Committee’s 
November 16 meeting, a video recording of the City Council’s November 15 meeting,3 and a 
 
1 We remind the Committee of its obligation to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including 
the requirement to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, §  
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05. 
2 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
3 A video recording of the City Council’s November 15 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sjKC-PjF2x4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
November 12 email from the City Clerk to Chair Stringi.4 We also communicated with Chair 
Stringi via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint stems from an application by Wellness 
Connection of Massachusetts Inc. and Gunnar Holding LLC to revise the original site plan and 
special permit conditions for property at 44 Railroad Street in Revere (the “Application”) and the 
Committee’s review of the proposed revised site plan. The Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on November 16 at 10:00 a.m.
5 The notice did not include a topic indicating 
that it would review the revised site plan.  
 
On Friday, November 12 at 1:35 p.m. Ashley Melnik, the City Clerk and Clerk of the 
City Council, emailed Chair Stringi at his City of Revere email address, asking that he please 
provide findings and conditions with respect to, among other things, the revised site plan. Chair 
Stringi has explained that because City Hall closes at 12:15 p.m. on Fridays, he did not view the 
Clerk’s email until the morning of Monday, November 15.  
 
The City Council convened a meeting the evening of November 15, during which it held 
a public hearing regarding the Application. After the public hearing was closed, the Council 
referred the Application to its Zoning Subcommittee.  
 
On November 16, the Committee held its meeting as scheduled. During the meeting the 
Committee discussed its recommendations regarding the revised site plan under the notice topic 
“other business.” Thereafter, the Committee issued a memorandum to the City Council providing 
the Committee’s findings and recommendations regarding the revised site plan.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice no later than 48 hours in 
advance of any meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated 
topic at a meeting, even if that topic is not included on the meeting notice. See OML 2020-172; 
OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.6 However, the Attorney General recommends that public 
bodies postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting.  
 
 The City Clerk did not email Chair Stringi requesting that the Committee review the 
revised site plan until 1:35 p.m. on November 12, less than 48 hours (excluding weekends and 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 We note that the copies of the notice provided to our office did not indicate the date and time the notice was 
posted. We remind the Committee that it must conspicuously list the date and time a meeting notice is posted on or 
with the notice. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
holidays) prior to the Committee’s meeting scheduled for 10:00 a.m. on November 16. 
Additionally, Chair Stringi has explained that he did not view the Clerk’s email until the morning 
of November 15. Therefore, we find that review of the revised site plan was not reasonably 
anticipated by Chair Stringi 48 hours prior to the November 16 meeting, and that, therefore, the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing this unanticipated topic. 
 
 Although we do not find a violation in this instance, we take this opportunity to clarify 
for the Committee its obligations with respect to listing anticipated topics on its meeting notices. 
In its response, the Committee states that review of the revised site plan was “covered on the 
[Committee’s] Agenda as ‘other business’ as this project was not filed under a formal site plan 
review application, which is normally done throu[]gh the City’s online ‘citizenserve,’ but was 
instead a City Council request for conditions submitted to the [Committee] by the City Clerk.” 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body include on its meeting notices all topics 
reasonably anticipated by the Chair, or other individual charged with creating the meeting notice, 
48 hours (excluding weekends and holidays) or more prior to the meeting. Moreover, topics must 
be listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the specific matter to be 
discussed; generic headings are insufficient when more specific information, such as the names 
or addresses of applicants, is known. See OML 2020-34; OML 2019-92; OML 2016-167. Had it 
been anticipated 48 hours or more prior to the November 16 meeting that the Committee would 
review the revised site plan for 44 Railroad Street, the notice topic “other business” would not 
have been sufficient to comply with the Open Meeting Law regardless of how the request to 
review the revised site plan was made to the Committee. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michael Rosen, Esq. (via email: MDR@riw.com) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
