===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
M ARTHA C OAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
OML 2014-109 
September 3, 2014 
Ms. Bonnie Conner, Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Conner: 
This office received a complaint from Sherry Rice (hereafter "the Complainant"), dated 
July 1, alleging that the Hinsdale Select Board (hereafter "the Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint alleges that the Board held meetings at a 
time other than its customary meeting time, and that Board members failed to speak loudly 
enough to accommodate the complainant's hearing disability. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on May 19, and you responded to the complaint by letter dated June 7.' 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in the complainant's 
allegations. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board; the 
Board's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we 
spoke by telephone with the Chair in July 2014 and with the complainant in August 2014. We 
also reviewed the meeting notices for the Board's meetings held on May 13 and May 14. 
The complainant's allegation that the Board held meetings at a time other than its 
customary meeting time, even if true, does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting notices contain "the date, time and place of [a] 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notices for the meetings at issue do contain the correct 
time, date, and place of the meeting. The question of whether these meetings should have been 
held at some other time pursuant to custom or some other rule is beyond the jurisdiction of this 
office. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The complainant also alleges that the Board failed to speak loudly enough to 
accommodate her hearing disability. The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a public 
body must be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the opportunity to 
be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189. Additionally, Title II of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act (hereafter "the ADA") requires that municipal services, including public 
meetings, be made accessible to people with disabilities. 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131-12165 (1990); 
OML 2012-49. 
The Board states that it was unaware of the complainant's disability prior to its receipt of 
this complaint. In response to the complaint, the Board has pledged to reserve a seat at the front 
of the meeting room for the complainant going forward. Additionally, we note that the Town has 
an appointed ADA coordinator responsible for engaging in a "meaningful dialogue" to ensure 
compliance and accessibility. 29 C.F.R. § 1630.2(o)(3) (2005). We refer the complainant to 
these resources for further assistance with reasonable accommodation. Should this process not 
result in reasonable accommodation, the Civil Rights Division of the Attorney General's office is 
charged with enforcement of the relevant statutes governing the accommodation of disabilities. 
Barring a showing that the Board and the Town have refused a reasonable accommodation of the 
complainant's disability, we find no violation of the Law at this time. 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc; Sherry Rice 
Richard Haupt, Municipal ADA Coordinator, Town of Hinsdale 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
2 