===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 21, 2015 
OML 2015-123 
Edward W. Pietnik, Jr., Esq. 
Edward W. Pietnik, Jr., P.C. 
180 Paramount Drive 
Suite #3 
Raynham, MA 02767 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pietnik: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Louis Pacheco, dated March 
8, 2015, alleging that the Raynham Board of Sewer Commissioners (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board 
held an illegal executive session during its August 14, 2014 meeting. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on February 12, 2015. The Board responded to the complaint by 
letter dated February 25, 2015.1 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and open session 
minutes of, the Board's August 14, 2014 meeting. We reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the 
Board's August 14, 2014 executive session. We also reviewed a transcript of a statement by 
Bruce Dyer, dated February 1, 2015, that was provided to our office by Mr. Pacheco. We spoke 
with Board Chair John Dolan and Attorney Joseph Emerson by telephone on April 16, 2015. We 
1 The Board's response argues that the complaint is untimely. A complaint must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of an alleged violation, or if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time 
it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). A 
complaint challenging the propriety of an executive session must be filed within 30 days of the date the substance of 
the executive session discussion could reasonably be discovered. Because the August 14, 2014 executive session 
minutes have not yet been publicly released, we find this complaint to be timely. 
===PAGE 2===
spoke with Board member Richard Schiavo by telephone on June 9, 2015. Finally, we reviewed 
a written statement signed by Board member Joseph A. Bettencourt, dated July 28, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted two notices for its August 14, 2014 
meeting. The first, posted on August 12, 2014 at 10:42 AM, listed the start time for the Board's 
open session meeting as 6:00 PM. The second, posted at 11:12 AM the same day, was for a 5:30 
PM executive session meeting. That notice listed a single topic for discussion: "Executive 
Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(2) to conduct a 
strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel."2 
On August 14, 2014, the Board convened at 5:31 PM and voted to enter into executive 
session. The minutes do not identify a purpose for the executive session. The Board met until 
6:20 PM, yet the executive session minutes provide no summary of the discussion, only a 
statement of the topic. During the meeting, the Board discussed the process and term for the 
renewal of the Sewer Department Superintendent's contract. 
Bruce Dyer, a consultant to the Board, was present outside of the meeting room toward 
the end of the executive session, having arrived early for the 6:00 PM open meeting. Mi-. Dyer 
was able to overhear some of the Board's discussion. According to Mr. Dyer, the Board 
discussed "how to get rid of the [Sewer Department] Superintendent," and discussed the 
compensation that the Superintendent would be due. Mr. Dyer also states that he overheard the 
Board discussing specific complaints about the Superintendent. He asserts that one Board 
member stated that the Superintendent was "the most insubordinate person he's ever dealt with 
in 30 years of having people work for him," and another Board member stated that "where he 
was typically been [sic] able to discipline a person and get some positive response but not with 
this guy." Finally, Mr. Dyer alleges that the same Board member went on to state that he had 
"lost all confidence in this guy to do the job he was hired to do," and suggested bringing back a 
prior Superintendent to oversee new sewer projects. 
According to Chair Dolan and Board members Richard Schiavo and Joseph Benttencourt, 
the Board did not discuss the Superintendent's job performance or character during the executive 
session. Attorney Joseph Emerson, who was present for the executive session, confirmed this 
account and explained to our office that immediately after the executive session, he had a 
discussion with Mr. Schiavo that touched upon the Superintendent's job performance and 
character. Attorney Emerson believes that this was the conversation that Mr. Dyer overheard. 
Mr. Schiavo confirmed with our office that he indeed had a conversation with Attorney Emerson 
immediately after the executive session, and also believes that is what Mr. Dyer overheard. We 
credit the Board's explanation of events that occurred. 
2 Although the executive session notice topic is not at issue in the complaint, we remind the Board that, generally, a 
public body must identify the specific non-union personnel or collective bargaining unit with which it is negotiating 
in its meeting notice and before entering into executive session for this puipose. See OML 2013-139; OML 2011-15. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. A public body may withhold the identity of the non-union personnel or collective 
bargaining unit if publicly disclosing that information would compromise the puipose for which the executive 
session was called. Id. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
In September 2014, the Board voted during an open meeting not to renew the 
Superintendent's contract. The Board did not have any other discussion regarding the matter 
prior to voting 2-1 not to renew the contract. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the August 14, 2014 executive session was not proper because 
it constituted either an impermissible executive session discussion of professional competence or 
constituted a discussion of discipline and/or dismissal without providing the person who was the 
subject of the discussion with the opportunity to be present. We find, however, that the 
conversation that occurred during the actual executive session was permissible under the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
The Open Meeting Law provides that public bodies may meet in executive session for 
any of ten purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. One purpose is to discuss "the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The law requires 
that the public body provide the individual who will be discussed during a Puipose 1 executive 
session with written notification at least 48 hours in advance. Id The law also affords the 
individual who is the subject of such an executive session a series of rights, including the right to 
request that the session be open; the right to be present; the right to have counsel or a 
representative present to advise the individual who is the subject of the executive session; the 
right to speak; and the right to cause an independent recording or transcription to be made at the 
individual's expense. Id. Another purpose for entering executive session is to "conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). 
The complainant alleges that the Board discussed, during its August 14, 2014 executive 
session, the job performance of the Sewer Department Superintendent and its complaints 
regarding the Superintendent's work. While discussion of professional competence is not 
permissible for executive session under any statutory puipose, discussion of the Superintendent's 
reputation, character, discipline or dismissal would have been permissible if the Superintendent 
was granted the rights guaranteed to the subject of such a discussion under Puipose 1. See G.L. 
c. 30A, 21(a)(1). Although those rights were not afforded to the Superintendent in this matter, 
we nevertheless find the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the Board did not 
discuss these matters in executive session on August 14, 2014. The Board entered into executive 
session on that date under Puipose 2 to discuss the Sewer Department Superintendent's contract, 
which was up for renewal. During the executive session, the Board discussed the process for 
considering the contract renewal and the terms of such a renewal. The Board did not discuss the 
Superintendent's job performance or character during the executive session; rather, the 
conversation that Mr. Dyer overheard appears to have occurred after the meeting and did not 
involve a quorum of the Board. Because the topics discussed by the Board during the actual 
executive session did fit within the parameters of the cited puipose, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
While not alleged in the complaint, we note our concerns about the sufficiency of the 
minutes of the Board's August 14, 2014 executive session. The minutes summarize the 50 
minute meeting with a mere sentence stating the subject of the discussion. We remind the Board 
that a public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A summary does not need to be a transcript of every word spoken 
at a meeting, but must contain enough detail so that a member of the public who did not attend 
the meeting could review the minutes and understand what the Committee discussed. See OML 
2013-105; OML 2012-41. We encourage the Board to amend its August 14, 2014 executive 
session minutes to add additional information about the discussion that occurred. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2504 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Raynham Board of Sewer Commissioners 
Louis Pacheco 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 