===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 26, 2012 
OML 2012 - 64 
Laura Allen 
Chair, Finance Committee 
Town of Egremont 
P.O. Box 368 
171 Egremont Plain Road 
South Egremont, MA 02158 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Allen: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Charles Flynn, dated July 30, 2011, alleging 
that the Egremont Finance Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that on or about May 5, 2011, the 
Committee "appeared to authorize, draft, and sign a letter of support for the Finance Committee 
Chair for her candidacy for the office of Selectmen in the Town of Egremont." The complaint 
also notes that there is "no evidence that this action was ever discussed at a posted Finance 
Committee meeting." The complaint was filed with the Committee on May 25, 2011, and the 
Committee responded by letter on June 15, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the May 25, 2011 complaint filed with the 
Committee; the Committee's June 15, 2011 response; and the July 30, 2011 complaint. We also 
reviewed an advertisement that appeared in the May 5-11, 2011 issue of the Shopper's Guide and 
the May 9, 2011 edition of the Berkshire Eagle newspaper. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The complainant, Charles Flynn, and the chair of the Egremont Finance Committee, 
Laura Allen,' were both candidates for a Board of Selectmen seat in the 2011municipal election. 
During the election, Ms. Allen published a letter as an advertisement that appeared in the May 5- 
11, 2011 issue of the Shopper's Guide and the May 9, 2011 edition of the Berkshire Eagle 
newspaper. The advertisement was signed by five members of the Committee, and stated that 
"We are members of Egremont's Finance Committee. We unanimously support Laura Allen's 
candidacy for the Egremont Selectboard." The advertisement went on to state the reasons the 
Committee members supported Ms. Allen's candidacy, including the impact she and her 
opponent would each have on the business of the Board of Selectmen, specifically noting that 
"we are particularly concerned by the possibility of having two school employees on our 
Selectboard. School expenses are more than 40% of our entire budget, so those expenses must 
be carefully scrutinized." Ms. Allen did not sign the letter, though it read "Paid for by Citizens 
to Elect Laura Allen" at the foot of the letter. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as a "deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, 
as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." A "quorum" is 
defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a 
general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee's members must have deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting to discuss or approve the advertisement supporting Ms. Allen's 
candidacy. Although five out of six members of the Committee signed the advertisement, we 
find this communication was not a deliberation that needed to occur during an open meeting 
because the advertisement was not "public business within [the Finance Committee's] 
jurisdiction." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2012-10. 2  Statements made by public body members 
for political purposes that do not involve matters presently or likely to come under consideration 
by the public body in the future are not communications on public business within the 
jurisdiction of the body, regardless of whether they are made by an individual public body 
member or by the members collectively. The Select Board election and the Select Board 
membership are not public business within the Committee's jurisdiction, nor are they matters 
that would come before the Committee in the future. Therefore, we find that the Cominittee 
members did not deliberate when discussing the political advertisement. 
'For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing a 
political advertisement for Ms. Allen's candidacy for the Select Board. We now consider this 
matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Jo  F  an Sclarsic 
A sistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Charles Flynn 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 