===PAGE 1===
5 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
UIBF OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
JJF ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
February 7, 2018 
OML 2018 - 15 
Karis North, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney North: 
This office received two related complaints from Brian Hardiman alleging that the 
Norwood Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with the Board on September 29, 2017, and the Board 
responded on October 19, 2017.1 This complaint was then filed with our office on October 30, 
2017. The second complaint was filed with the Board on November 9, 2017, and the Board 
responded to that complaint on December 1, 2017.2 The second complaint was then filed with 
our office on January 8, 2018. In his complaints, Mr. Hardiman alleges that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting meeting notices that provided insufficient information 
about executive session discussions; (ii) convening in executive session without a proper 
statutory basis; and (iii) failing to release executive session minutes. 
1 The Board contends that the first complaint was improperly filed. The complainant sent the complaint by e-mail to 
both the Norwood Town Clerk and the general e-mail inbox for the Board. "For local public bodies, the 
complainant shall file the complaint with the chair of the public body, who shall disseminate copies of the complaint 
to the members of the public body. The complainant shall also file a copy of the complaint with the municipal clerk, 
who shall keep such filings in an orderly fashion for public review on request during regular business hours." 940 
CMR 29.05(3). We note that revised Open Meeting Law regulations took effect on October 6, 2017, after the first 
complaint was filed. However, the requirement for filing with a local public body remained the same. The Board 
contends that the Board's general e-mail inbox does not constitute filing with the chair. Because the e-mail address 
used by the complainant was the one publicly available on the Board's website and a reasonable person would 
therefore think it was the proper address to use for official correspondence, we find that the first complaint was 
properly filed. 
2 The Board contends that the second complaint was improperly filed because only the second page of the complaint 
was filed with the Board. We need not reach this issue, because the allegations in the second complaint are 
untimely. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (complaints must be filed with 30 days of the date of an alleged violation). 
However, because the allegations in the second complaint are duplicative of those in the first complaint, which was 
timely filed, we review them nonetheless. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
insufficiently detailed meeting notices. However, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Board's responses, and the requests for further review filed with our 
office. We spoke with the complainant by telephone on November 17, 2017 and January 17, 
2018, and we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on January 18 and 23, 2018. 
We also reviewed a supplementary e-mail sent by the complainant on January 6, 2018. We 
reviewed the notices of Board meetings held on May 10 and 16, August 29 and September 5, 
2017. Finally, we reviewed the minutes of executive sessions held on March 8, 2016, and May 
10 and 16, August 29, and September 5, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 23, 2015, Norwood Avalon, Inc. ("Avalon") 
applied to the Board for a comprehensive permit under G.L. c. 40B, §§ 20-23. On March 8, 
2016, the Board voted to deny the comprehensive permit application. Avalon appealed that 
decision to the Department of Housing and Community Development ("DHCD"), and DHCD 
found that the Board had failed to fully support its decision. On May 25, 2016, the Board 
appealed that DHCD determination to the Housing Appeals Committee ("HAC"). Avalon also 
appealed, arguing that the Board had constructively approved the permit. On June 2, 2016, at a 
conference on the pending litigation before HAC, the parties agreed to stay proceedings pending 
the outcome of a separate litigation matter before HAC also involving the Board ("the Davis 
Marcus matter") that would resolve the same underlying issues. This agreement to stay 
proceedings included the potential for settlement discussions following the resolution of the 
Davis Marcus matter. On December 8, 2016, HAC issued its decision in the Davis Marcus 
matter finding that Board had not proven its claim. 
On December 16, 2016, the Board held a joint meeting with the Norwood Board of 
Selectmen to discuss potential settlement of the Avalon litigation, given the unfavorable outcome 
in the Davis Marcus matter.3 It was decided that town counsel would pursue settlement 
discussions with Avalon. On May 10 and 16, 2017, the Board met in executive session to 
discuss a conceptual settlement with Avalon. The notices for these meetings listed anticipated 
executive sessions "[t]o discuss litigation strategy with Town Counsel where discussion in open 
session could detrimental to the Town's position." No further information was provided. During 
the May 16, 2017 executive session, the Board voted to settle the litigation, however there were 
still additional negotiations regarding the terms of a comprehensive permit for the Avalon 
project. The Board held two additional executive sessions, on August 29 and September 5, 2017, 
to review the evolving terms of the comprehensive permit. The notices of these meetings again 
listed, without any further information, anticipated executive sessions "[t]o discuss litigation 
strategy with Town Counsel where discussion in open session could detrimental to the Town's 
3 Pursuant to the Bylaws of the Town of Norwood, the Norwood Board of Selectmen is responsible for the 
commencement and settlement of lawsuits by and against the town. Of significance here, the Norwood Board of 
Selectmen sought input from the Board in the settlement process. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
position." Settlement documents were filed with HAC in September 2017, and HAC approved 
the settlement in October 2017.4 
After the first complaint was filed on September 29, 2017, the Board reviewed the 
executive session minutes at issue during a meeting on October 17, 2017. The Board voted to 
release the executive session minutes and they were provided to the complainant as part of the 
response on October 19, 2017. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Executive Sessions at Issue Were Held for a Proper Purpose. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies 
to enter executive, or closed, session and conduct deliberations outside of public view for ten 
specific purposes. G.L. c, 30A, § 21(a). A public body may enter executive session to discuss 
"strategy with respect to... litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the... 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). A public body may convene in executive session by citing Purpose 3 only if 
litigation is pending or clearly or imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See 
Perryman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2015-14; 
OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43.5 
The complaint alleges that the Board met in executive session without a proper statutory 
purpose. Specifically, the complaint alleges that, because the Board voted on May 16, 2017 to 
approve a settlement, the Board could not meet subsequently pursuant to Purpose 3. This is 
incorrect. Where a party has outstanding obligations to perform under a settlement agreement, 
and litigation is likely to result if terms are not met, discussions about compliance with those 
obligations may take place in an executive session convened under Purpose 3. See OML 2012-
70. Here, the Board convened in executive session on May 10 and 16, 2017 to discuss the terms 
of a settlement and to vote to approve such a settlement. On August 29 and September 5, 2017, 
the Board convened in executive session to discuss the terms of a comprehensive permit that was 
being issued as part of the settlement agreement. Even though the settlement was approved by 
the Board on May 16, 2017, the matter remained active until HAC approved the settlement in 
October 2017. The discussions in the subsequent meetings involved the Board's obligations 
under the proposed settlement. Accordingly, we find that the Board permissibly convened in 
executive session under Purpose 3 during the meetings at issue. See OML 2015-84. 
4 The second complaint states that the Board chair signed the comprehensive permit at issue on October 18, 2017, 
and that the Board appears not to have explicitly voted to authorize him to do so. The complaint alleges that the 
chair did this "arbitrarily," We note the Board's May 16, 2017 vote to settle the Avalon litigation. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www,mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
II, The Board Provided Insufficient Detail on the Meeting Notices Regarding the 
Executive Session Discussions. 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). While 
we will generally defer to a public body's determination of when disclosure of information on a 
meeting notice will compromise the purpose for executive session, the body must produce a 
reasonable explanation for the omission if questioned. See OML 2017-87. 
The complaint alleges that the Board provided insufficient information on the meeting 
notices at issue about what would be discussed in executive session. The Board indicated on the 
meeting notices that it would meet in executive session to discuss a litigation matter, but it did 
not provide the name of the litigation matter or any other identifying information. The Board 
could not provide our office with a reason why the name of the litigation matter could not have 
appeared on the meeting notices. We therefore find that the inclusion of this information would 
not have compromised the purpose for the executive sessions, and its exclusion from the meeting 
notices therefore violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-121. 
III. The Board Permissibly Withheld the Executive Session Minutes at Issue Until the 
Settlement was Approved. 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure. See id. 
Here, the Board withheld the minutes of the May 10 and 16, August 29, and September 6, 
2017 executive sessions until the settlement discussed therein had been approved by HAC. It is 
not clear if the complainant or anyone else requested copies of the executive session minutes, but 
we note that the Board provided them in response to the September 29, 2017 complaint. To the 
extent that the complaint alleges that the minutes should have been made public because no valid 
executive session purpose existed, as discussed above, the Board permissibly convened in 
executive session on the dates at issue. Based on the foregoing, we find no violation with respect 
to the Board's handling of its executive session minutes. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Ke'vin W. Mangaffaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Brian Hardiman 
Norwood Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 