===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 30, 2015 
OML 2015-91 
James Deroian and Emily Norton, Co-Chairs 
Townsend Conservation Commission 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chairs Deroian and Norton: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Hill, dated May 21, alleging that the 
Townsend Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on April 9, and the 
Commission responded by letter dated April 27. In her complaint, Ms. Hill alleges that the 
Commission failed to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Commission's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a seven-member public body charged 
with the preservation of natural resources in the Town of Townsend. At issue is the speed with 
which the Commission created and approved minutes of two meetings that took place on January 
21 and March 11. The minutes of the January 21 meeting were approved on February 18. The 
minutes of the March 11 meeting were approved on April 8. 
DISCUSSION 
Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body is required to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussion on each subject, a list of documents and 
other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes of all open session 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
meetings must be created and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The law does 
not provide a definition of "timely manner," but we recommend that minutes be approved at the 
next meeting, whenever possible. See OML 2014-59; OML 2013-122; OML 2012-91.2 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by not 
approving minutes at the very next meeting. For example, in the case of the March 11 minutes, 
the Commission met on March 25 before approving the minutes at a meeting on April 8. While 
we recommend that minutes be approved at a public body's next meeting, failure to do so does 
not automatically make approval of minutes untimely. Both sets of minutes at issue here were 
approved approximately one month following their respective meeting. We have stated in the 
past that a public body does not violate the Open Meeting Law when it takes approximately one 
month to approve meeting minutes. See OML 2015-43. Accordingly, we find that the 
Commission did not violate the law in the present case. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Karen Hill 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed In Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 