===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 31, 2015 
OML 2015-43 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received two related complaints from Mr. Robert Belbin, both dated January 
21, 2015, alleging that the Carver Local Housing Partnership Committee (the "Committee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. Both complaints were originally filed 
with the Committee on November 24, 2014. After receiving an extension of time from our 
office, the Committee responded by letter dated December 30, 2014. In his complaints, Mr. 
Belbin alleges that the Committee (i) failed to create a sufficiently specific meeting agenda; (ii) 
improperly amended a meeting notice; and (iii) failed to approve meeting minutes in a timely 
manner. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to note the date and time that a meeting notice was posted and amended, and by failing to 
approve and create certain meeting minutes in a timely manner. However, we find that the 
meeting agenda at issue was sufficiently specific. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints; the Committee's response; and the request for further review filed with our 
office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is an public body formed to make 
recommendations with respect to the development of affordable housing in the Town of Carver. 
The Committee typically meets once per month. One of the projects under review by the 
Committee is the development of a large tract of land located on Plymouth Street. This tract, 
known colloquially as the "Silva Property," had been the subject of eight public meetings held by 
the Committee between the period of January 2014 and November 2014. 
The Committee held a meeting on November 24, 2014. The meeting agenda states, 
"Meeting with Michael Draper regarding Silva Property- Plymouth Street." Prior to the meeting, 
the Committee sent letters directly to 36 abutters to the Silva Property, informing them that the 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
meeting was taking place and that the Silva Property would be discussed. The meeting notice 
originally listed a 7:00 P.M. start time. At some point prior to the meeting, the start time was 
changed to 5:30 P.M. The revised meeting notice does not indicate when this change was made. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Agenda for the November 24, 2014 Meeting Was Sufficiently Specific. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A meeting notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of the topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). This listing of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). When planning to 
discuss a specific piece of property, public bodies should include sufficient information in the 
meeting notice to identify the property. See OML 2010-2. A specific address is always 
preferable; however, the public body may also list bordering streets, intersections, landmarks or 
other identifying information. Id. 
At issue here is whether the sole topic in the notice for the Committee's November 24, 
2014 meeting—"Meeting with Michael Draper regarding Silva Property- Plymouth Street"— 
satisfies the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. The description lists the street on which the 
property is located, along with an identifying name. The issue of the Silva Property's 
development had been frequently discussed by the Committee. The Committee took affirmative 
steps to notify direct abutters to the property. In previous determinations, we have found similar 
descriptions of anticipated discussion topics to be sufficient. See 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 
2013-102; OML 2013-55; OML 2011-7. On these circumstances, we find that, while a specific 
address may have been helpful to the public, the description given on the November 24, 2014 
agenda sufficiently describes the property. 
II. The Committee Failed to Indicate when the Meeting Notice was Posted, and when 
it was Amended. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting, and the 
Attorney General's regulations require that "[t]he date and time that the notice is posted shall be 
conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-45. If a 
meeting notice is revised, the revised notice must conspicuously record on or with the notice 
both the date and time the original notice was posted as well as the date and time the last revision 
was posted. See OML 2013-89; OML 2013-44. 
Here, the original notice for the Committee's November 24, 2014 meeting does not 
indicate the date and time that it was posted, nor does the amended notice indicate when the start 
time of the meeting was changed. The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include this required information. See 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 2013-89. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
III. The Committee Failed to Create and Approve Meeting Minutes in a Timely 
Manner. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the "[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created 
and approved in a timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Law does not define "timely 
manner," but we recommend that minutes be approved at the next meeting, whenever possible. 
See OML 2013-98; OML 2013-31; OML 2012-91. 
Mr. Belbin's complaint concerns meeting minutes for three dates in 2014: September 9; 
September 30; and November 3. All three sets of minutes were approved during the 
Committee's December 18, 2014 meeting. With respect to the minutes of the November 3, 2014 
minutes, because they were approved approximately one month after the meeting, we find that 
those were approved in a timely manner. With respect to the minutes of the September 9 and 
September 30, 2014 meetings, we find that the Board failed to approve those minutes in a timely 
manner. We credit the Committee's statement that issues of staff availability made it difficult to 
create and approve minutes. Nevertheless, the Committee is obligated to follow the law's 
obligations. See OML 2013-166. We find that the Committee failed to create and approve 
meeting minutes in a timely manner, as required by the Open Meeting Law.1 
As a final matter, we note that the Committee failed to respond to Mr. Belbin's 
complaints in the manner required by law. The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 
business days after receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the 
complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant and the 
Attorney General's Office copies of the complaint and a description of any remedial action 
taken. See 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body shall simultaneously notify the complainant 
that it has sent such materials to the Attorney General and shall provide the complainant with a 
copy of the description of any remedial action taken. Id. Here, the Committee sent a response to 
our office, but it did not send one to the complainant. We remind the Committee of its 
responsibilities under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
1 Mr. Belbin also claims that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post minutes from certain 
meetings online. We note that the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to post meeting minutes to a 
website. See OML 2013-117. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
vevm w. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Robert Belbin 
Carver Local Housing Partnership Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 