===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 26, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 163 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
James Maksimoski 
Co-Chair, Hadley Bylaw Committee 
Jim_maksimoski@charter.net 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Chair Maksimoski: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Delmolino on May 8, 2023, alleging that 
the Hadley Bylaw Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 7, 
2023.  Town Clerk Jessica Spanknebel initially responded to the complaint on behalf of the 
Committee by email on May 9, 2023, and you responded further by email on May 11, 2023.1  
The complaint alleges that the Committee held several meetings since December 2021 
without posting notice or creating and approving minutes for each meeting.
2    
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s responses to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
reviewed minutes of the Committee’s April 18, 2023, meeting. 
 
 
1 The Committee discussed and addressed the complaint during its meeting on April 18, 2023; however, the 
Committee did not send a response to the complainant nor send a copy of the original complaint and response to 
our office until we contacted the Committee on May 9, 2023.  We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting 
Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must meet to review the 
complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description 
of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
2 The complaint also alleges that the Committee’s meetings were not recorded and made available on the Hadley 
Media YouTube channel.  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to record its meetings or to 
post recordings online; therefore, we decline to review this allegation. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   The 
Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“public body” in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  In 
Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise 
that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject 
to the Open Meeting Law.  Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235.   
 
Here, the Committee acknowledges that it did not post notice and create minutes for 
its meetings, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  It explains that it initially believed it 
would not be subject to the Open Meeting Law because it functioned as an advisory 
committee to the Town Administrator; however, because the Select Board created the 
Committee and appointed its members, it now understands it is a public body and should have 
complied with the Open Meeting Law.  In response to the complaint, the Committee created 
and approved minutes for its past meetings and re-voted all prior motions.  The Committee 
committed to complying with the Open Meeting Law moving forward.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Susan Delmolino (via email: ) 
Town Clerk Jessica Spanknebel (via email: clerk@hadleyma.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
