===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B 0 S TON, MAS SACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
An'ORNEY GENERAL 
July 25, 2011 
OML 2011- 31 
Katherine I. Doyle 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Doyle, 
This office received a complaint from Paul Cosentino, Sr. dated December 20, 2010 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Templeton Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that at its September 29, 2010 
meeting, the Board, "went into open meeting after the executive session [and] they discussed 
other business and took a vote," and that "[n]othing regarding the discussion of anything else 
was on the agenda." The complaint additionally alleges that at an October 12, 2010 meeting, the 
Board discussed the complainant, and that, In]owhere was it posted that there would be a 
discussion of Paul Cosentino." The complaint was originally filed as two separate complaints 
with the Board on or about October 17, 2010. We also received a response to the original 
complaint by the Board dated October 27, 2010. 
We find that the Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to follow 
statutorily required procedures for entering executive session at its September 29, 2010 meeting 
and for inadequate notice posting for its October 12, 2010 meeting. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the two October 17, 2010 complaints, the Board's October 27, 2010 
response, and the meeting notices and open and executive session minutes of the September 29, 
2010 and October 12, 2010 meetings. - 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  
Based on the complaints and the Board's response, we understand the following to have 
occurred: the Board met in open session on September 27, 2010. At that meeting, Mr. 
Cosentino addressed the Board. The Board convened a subsequent meeting on September 29, 
2010. The notice for the meeting was posted on September 22, 2010, and listed one topic: 
"Complaint or charges against a public officer, employee, staff member, or individual. May go 
into Executive Session under Exception #1 under the Open Meeting Law." The Board opened 
the meeting at 6:00 p.m. and voted to enter executive session. The Board Chair did not state that 
the Board would reconvene in open session following the executive session. The Board 
discussed a topic unrelated to the complainant in executive session, for which the Templeton 
Police Chief was present. The Board reconvened in open session at 7:20 p.m. At that point in 
the meeting, the Police Chief asked the Board members if they wanted him to file charges 
against the complainant following the complainant's statements to the Board at its September 27, 
2010 meeting. The Police Chief had not been present at the September 27, 2010 Board meeting, 
but had viewed the broadcast after receiving complaints from several residents. The Board 
discussed the Police Chief s request, and then voted unanimously to prohibit the complainant 
from visiting any town office without a police escort. The Board stated in its October 27, 2010 
response to the complaint that the "Chairman of the Board of Selectmen had been given no prior 
warning that the Police Chief would raise the issue." 
On October 12, 2010, the Board met in open session to, among other items, discuss an 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Jeffrey Bennett, regarding a separate but related issue 
from the September 29, 2010 meeting. That complaint alleged that the Board failed to open the 
door to the meeting room when reconvening in open session following the executive session. 
While the discussion about the Mr. Cosentino raised by the police Chief was conducted in open 
session, the door to the room had remained closed since the Board first entered executive 
session. The meeting notice for October 12, 2010 was posted on October 7, 2010, and listed a 
topic as "Police Chief Update," and under that topic, listed "Discuss Alleged Open Meeting Law 
Violation." During the meeting, the Police Chief discussed with the Board the merits of the 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Mr. Bennett. The minutes of the meeting do not reflect 
any action taken by the Board in response to the complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
Mr. Cosentino's first complaint alleges that the Board violated the law at its September 
29, 2010 meeting by discussing the topic raised by the Police Chief in open session without 
listing that topic on the meeting notice at least 48 hours prior to the meeting. The Open Meeting 
Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and 
include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When a topic arises that was not listed in a meeting notice and 
which the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting, the Board may 
address the topic.' Here, the Board stated in writing that the "Chairman of the Board of 
See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law, www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting:  
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Selectmen had been given no prior warning that the Police Chief would raise the issue." We 
have not been given any reason to doubt this assertion, nor has any evidence been presented to 
the contrary. However, we remind the Board that our office strongly encourages public bodies to 
postpone consideration of controversial matters that were not listed on the meeting notice so that 
the public may have the benefit of notice before the Board considers the topic. 
While the Board acted within the law in deliberating on a topic which was not listed on 
the meeting notice, the Board failed to follow the legally required procedure for entering 
executive session. When a public body enters executive session, the Chair must take several 
procedural steps, including "publicly announc[ing] whether the open session will reconvene at 
the conclusion of the executive session." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). The purpose of this 
requirement is to inform members of the public whether the public body will reconvene in open 
session to conduct business, so that attendees know whether or not to wait for the open session to 
resume. Here, the public body failed to announce to the public whether it would reconvene in 
open session. Additionally, because the door to the meeting room remained closed during the 
open session (the subject of Mr. Bennett's Open Meeting Law complaint), there was no notice to 
members of the public who may have been waiting outside the room that the meeting was 
continuing in open session. The Board should have announced that it would reconvene in open 
session or, because the chair did not anticipate that the Police Chief would raise an issue after the 
Board left executive session, the chair should have moved to adjourn the meeting and postponed 
discussion of this topic until a new meeting notice had been published. 
Mr. Cosentino's second complaint alleges that the notice for the October 12, 2010 Board 
meeting was insufficient, and that the Open Meeting Law complaint should not have been 
addressed by the Police Chief 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30, §§ 20(b) states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body, must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. 
If a public body anticipates discussing an Open Meeting Law complaint in open session, 
then they should list that topic in the meeting notice with sufficient detail to inform the public of 
the details of the complaint. Here, the Board should have listed on the agenda that there would 
be discussion of a complaint by Mr. Bennett alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law by the 
Board of Selectmen. While the Board is required to "review the complaint's allegations," there is 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
Sincere 
nothing in the Open Meeting Law or the Attorney General's regulations prohibiting a non-Board 
member from addressing an Open Meeting Law complaint or discussing the complaint in open 
session. See 940 CMR 29.05(5). Thus, whether to permit the Police Chief to address the 
complaint was entirely at the discretion of the Board. 
CONCLUSION 
We fmd that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to announce that it 
would re-convene in open session during its September 27, 2010 meeting, and when it failed to 
identify the specific Open Meeting Law complaint in its meeting notice for the October 12, 2010 
meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and may 
consider similar conduct in the future to be an intentional violation of the law. We note that the 
No Trespass Order approved by the Board during the second open session at its September 27, 
2010 was lifted by the Board at its October 20, 2010 meeting. We therefore decline to take the 
action requested by the complainant, which was to rescind the vote taken by the Board at its 
September 27, 2010 open session. We now consider this matter closed. 
If you have any questions regarding the complaint, please do not hesitate to contact me at 
the number below. 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
cc: Templeton Board of Selectmen 
Paul Cosentino, Sr. 
4 