===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
September 4, 2012 
OML 2012 - 87 
Mary Ellen Lannon 
Town Clerk 
71 Mt. Vernon St. 
Winchester, MA 01890 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Lannon: 
Our office received a complaint filed by Ronald Castignetti dated August 22, 
2011, alleging that the Winchester Audit Advisory Committee (the "Committee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that since May 2006, "no minutes were ever taken by any members of the 
Winchester Audit Advisory Committee —public session(s) or executive session(s) (if 
any)." The complaint additionally alleges that the Committee failed to carry out the 
charge of its mission as stated in the March 6, 2006 meeting minutes of the Winchester 
Board of Selectmen. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 24, 
2011. You responded to the complaint by letter dated June 8, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to create and approve minutes of its meetings. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the May 24, 2011 complaint; the Town's June 8, 2011 
response; and the August 22, 2011 complaint and attached documents filed with our 
office. We make no finding with respect to Mr. Castignetti's allegation that the 
Committee failed to carry out the charge of its mission, as that is not a matter within the 
scope of the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we make no finding with respect to Mr. 
Castignetti's request for documents under the Public Records Law. Appeals of denied or 
ignored requests for documents should be directed to the Secretary of State's Public 
Records Division. See G.L. c. 66, § 10(b). 
A public body is required to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
1 
===PAGE 2===
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Mr. 
Castignetti's complaint alleges that the Committee has not created or retained minutes 
since the Committee's inception in May 2006. Your letter in response to his complaint 
acknowledges this error, stating that, "It is my official determination that no official 
minutes (open or executive) exist for this advisory committee." You provided Mr. 
Castignetti with a list of the public notices for the Committee's meetings, and explained 
that at the time the Committee was created, the Town believed that, as an advisory 
committee to the Board of Selectmen, the Committee was not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. In response to Mr. Castignetti's request for remedial action, you wrote 
that "as the Town Clerk I have and will communicate to the members of the committee 
that minutes must be taken and filed in the proper marmer." On August 24, 2012, we 
spoke with Committee member and Town Comptroller Brian Keveny, who confirmed 
that the Committee has created and approved minutes for each of its meetings since Mr. 
Castignetti filed his complaint. 
Accordingly, we order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a 
similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Additionally, we order the Conmratee to create and approve minutes of all 
of the Committee's meetings, to the best of its ability, from July 1, 2010 to present, 
within ninety (90) days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Ronald Castignetti 
Jude Capachietti, Audit Advisory Chairman 
Wade Welch, Town Counsel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 