===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 203 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com   
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
 
This office received two complaints from Ronald Beaty on May 20, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on 
April 16 and 21, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letters dated May 20. The April 16 complaint alleges that during the Board’s 
April 6 meeting it discussed an anticipated topic that was not included on the notice for the April 
6 meeting. The April 21 complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve meeting 
minutes.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s 
responses, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed the notice for the Board’s April 
6 meeting, a video recording of the Board’s April 6 meeting, and a video recording of the 
Board’s March 30 meeting.
2 We also communicated by phone with the Chair of the Board and 
counsel for the Board.3  
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s April 6 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJccHcBWs0M. A video recording of the Board’s March 30 meeting may be 
found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lvpGGrk098g.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The April 16 Complaint  
 
The topic that is the subject of the April 16 complaint relates to the distribution of funds 
allocated to Barnstable County under the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). The Board and the 
Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates (the “Assembly”) disagreed regarding the process for 
and authority to distribute the ARPA funds, with each receiving conflicting legal opinions on the 
matter. The Board and Assembly went back and forth taking various votes regarding the process 
for distributing the ARPA funds and various votes disapproving of the other body’s actions.4 
During this time, the Chair of the Board and the Speaker of the Assembly, along with others, 
attempted to reach a compromise regarding the distribution of ARPA funds.   
 
 On March 30, the Board voted to allocate $10,000,000 in ARPA funds for direct grants to 
municipalities. However, efforts continued between the Chair of the Board, the Speaker of the 
Assembly, and others to reach a compromise between the Board and the Assembly. On April 1, 
the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 6 at 9:00 a.m. The notice did not 
include a topic regarding ARPA funding. At the April 6 meeting, under the notice topic “New 
Business – Other business not reasonably anticipated by the Chair,” the Chair brought up the 
topic of ARPA funding, noting that she had not anticipated raising this topic. The Chair 
explained that she had been working with members of the Assembly regarding the dispute over 
distribution of the ARPA funds. The Chair explained that the Assembly would be meeting later 
that day to discuss ARPA funds and that she believed it would be best for the Board to rescind its 
March 30 vote allocating ARPA funds in order to give the Assembly a “clean slate” for their 
discussion later that day. After a brief discussion, the Board voted to rescind its March 30 vote.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a 
meeting even without having included it on a meeting notice, although the Attorney General 
strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of topics 
that might be of significant interest to the public in order to include such topics on a meeting 
notice for a subsequent meeting if the topic can wait. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.
5 
When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether it was reasonably 
anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue. See OML 2020-55; OML 2018-159; 
OML 2017-2. 
 
The Apr
il 16 complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on April 6 
when it discussed and voted to rescind its March 30 vote without that topic having been included 
on the notice for the April 6 meeting. The complaint asserts that this topic “could have and 
should have been easily anticipated by the Chairperson.” In its response, the Board asserts that, 
 
4 For example, on December 1, 2021, the Assembly voted in favor of Proposed Ordinance 21- 17, which provided 
“that Barnstable County utilize the Ordinance Process provided in Section 2-8 and Section 3-8 of the Barnstable 
County Home Rule Charter to expend any and all funds received by Barnstable County under the American Rescue 
Plan Act of 2021.” On December 8, 2021, the Board voted to disapprove Proposed Ordinance 21-17 and in favor of 
a different proposed ordinance, Proposed Ordinance 21-20. On December 15, 2021, the Assembly voted to 
reconsider and approve Ordinance 21-17 and reject Proposed Ordinance 21-20. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
although the Chair was actively working to resolve the disagreement between the Board and the 
Ass
embly, she did not anticipate discussing or voting on ARPA funding at the Board’s April 6 
meeting. Specifically, the Board explains that on the morning of April 6, just prior to the Board’s 
meeting, a critical development occurred in the Chair’s compromise discussions with the 
Speaker and that it was only then that the “Chair determined that the Board would need to take 
action at its April 6th meeting to help facilitate a possible compromise.” 
 
Although we credit the Chair’s assertion that she did not know definitively that
  the Board 
would need to discuss and rescind its March 30 vote to allocate ARPA funds until the morning of 
April 6, we find that this topic was reasonably anticipated where the Chair was actively working 
with the Speaker to resolve the dispute and the Chair knew that if she heard from the Speaker 
regarding the proposed path forward before the April 6 meeting she would raise the topic of 
rescinding the Board’s March 30 vote at the April 6 meeting. Therefore, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a reasonably anticipated topic during its April 6 
meeting that was not included on the notice for that meeting. See OML 2016-101; OML 2014-
117.  
 
The
 April 21 Complaint 
 
The April 21 complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes of its 
February 16 and 23 meetings and that the Board failed to timely approve meeting minutes for the 
year prior.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11 (2). 
 
 The Board acknowledges that between January 4, 2021, and April 21, 2022, it “held fifty -
four regular session meetings, approving all but thirteen of the respective meeting minutes 
within” 30 days or three meetings.
6 At the time of the Board’s response, all thirteen sets of 
meeting minutes had been approved. The majority of the meetings for which minutes were not 
timely approved occurred between January and April of 2022. The Board asserts that during this 
time, there was good cause for delay in approving meeting minutes because 1) the Board was 
required to meet more frequently than usual; 2) the workload of the Board and its staff had 
 
6 We note that the Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction,” and that the law and our regulations do not distinguish between “regular” 
meetings and other types of meetings—such as “special meetings,” workshops, or public hearings—for purposes of 
timely approval of minutes. See OML 2017-103; OML 2019-115 (no exception for “single topic” meetings or 
meetings not “normally scheduled”). After review of the information provided and the  Board’s meeting notices 
posted online, we find that thirteen sets of meeting minutes were not timely approved.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
increased due to preparation of the 2023 fiscal year budget and administration of the ARPA fund 
application process; and 3) the Board updated its virtual meeting policy resulting in a greater 
utilization of staff resources to facilitate meetings.  
 
We find that the Board has not established good cause for delay in approving meeting 
minute
s. In general, a public body’s workload does not constitute good cause for delay in 
approving meeting minutes. See OML 2022-144; OML 2018-83; OML 2017-61. Similarly, 
staffing shortages of the type that all governmental bodies with limited resources experience, or 
periodic staff vacancies, do not constitute good cause for failing to approve minutes in a timely 
manner, as it is the responsibility of the public body and its members to take steps to ensure that 
staff have adequate assistance to complete the minutes in a timely manner, including having 
members of the public body assist in the creation of minutes if necessary. See OML 2021-177; 
OML 2018-105; OML 2015-86.   
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing an anticipated topic that was not included on the notice for its April 6 meeting and by 
failing to timely approve thirteen sets of meeting minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Because the discussion at issue occurred in 
open session, is reflected in both the minutes for the April 6 meeting as well as the video 
recording of the April 6 meeting, and because of the time that has passed, we do not order 
additional remedial action. Likewise, because all thirteen sets of meeting minutes have been 
approved, we do not order further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Sheila Lyons, Chair, Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners  
(via email: sheila.lyons@barnstablecounty.org) 
Ronald Beaty (via e-mail: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
