===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALBY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.aov/aao 
November 21,2017 
OML 2017-178 
Caroline R. Thibeault, Esq. 
Deutsch Williams 
One Design Center Place, Suite 600 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Thibeault: 
This office received a complaint from Ted Teichert on July 26 alleging that the Andover 
School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 13 and you responded, on behalf 
of the Committee, by letter dated June 30. The complaint alleges that the Committee entered 
into executive session for an improper purpose on June 8 and that the notice for the June 8 
meeting was insufficiently detailed as it failed to identify the litigation matter the Committee 
intended to discuss in executive session.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice of and open and executive session minutes from the Committee's June 8 
meeting, as well as supplementary information provided to us by the complainant pertaining to 
public records requests filed with the Committee. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on 
September 27 and October 26.3 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 In his July 26 complaint filed with this office, the complainant additionally alleges that the Committee failed to 
discuss his Open Meeting Law complaint during a meeting and deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
We decline to review these allegations because they were not included in a complaint to the Committee and the 
Committee has not had an opportunity to respond. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29,05(3). We note that the 
Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must meet to 
review the complaint's allegations; the public body may then delegate responsibility for responding to the complaint 
to legal counsel. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is a member of the Committee. On May 
9, Jeanne Teichert, the wife of the complainant, requested from Andover Public Schools 
("Schools") all student records, including any and all emails, concerning her three children. On 
May 18, Ms. Teichert requested from the Schools the complete survey results for the 2016-2017 
Andover High School Climate and Culture Survey, including questions, answers and comments. 
On May 27, Ms. Teichert requested from the Committee "an electronic copy of the 
letter/email you referenced during the 5/25/17 School Committee meeting from Dr. Berman 
regarding his request to extend his evaluation past the contractual deadline." This request was 
sent at 11:48 a.m. via email to all Committee members but was addressed to Chair Susan 
McCready. At 12:22 p.m. on May 27, Ms. Teichert sent another email to all Committee 
members but again addressed to Chair McCready requesting "your written responses and any 
other written communication to or from any School Committee member or school staff relating 
to this issue." 
On May 29, Chair McCready responded to the request stating that "the Tetter/email' you 
are requesting does not exist," and that there were no emails regarding the Superintendent's 
request to extend his evaluation. Later that same day, Ms. Teichert requested via email that 
Chair McCready confirm with the Town's Records Access Officer that no emails actually 
existed. Ms. Teichert also requested "all email communication to and from every Andover 
Public Schools School Committee member on any district server from Jan. 1, 2017 to present." 
On June 2, the Committee posted notice with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on 
Thursday, June 8 at 5 p.m. The notice listed, among other topics, an Executive Session "to 
discuss strategy with respect to litigation because an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the litigation position of the School Committee." 
During the June 8 meeting, the Committee voted by roll call to enter into Executive 
Session "to discuss strategy with respect to litigation because an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigation position of the School Committee." Because the Committee 
has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in 
detail here. However, we note, that the Committee sought legal advice from its counsel 
regarding potential litigation to be brought by the Schools in response to the multiple public 
records request filed by Ms. Teichert. 
The Schools never filed a lawsuit in response to the requests for records. However, in a 
June 26 letter, Andover Records Access Officer Paul Szymanski requested from the Supervisor 
of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office that the Schools, which included 
the Committee, be relieved from its obligation to provide copies of records to Ms. Teichert 
where her requests were frivolous and designed to intimidate and harass the Schools. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Committee's June 8 executive session 
discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
2 
===PAGE 3===
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). This level of detail about the 
executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
OML 2016-72.4 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05. When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97. While we generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion 
of such information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must 
be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
The complainant argues that the Committee convened in executive session for an 
improper purpose where neither he nor his wife threatened any litigation against the Committee 
or the Schools with respect to records requests. The Committee contends that the executive 
session was proper under Purpose 3 because the discussion concerned "an assessment of possible 
litigation by the Committee to challenge a recent public records request." At the time of the June 
8 meeting, the Schools, including the Committee, had received three recent requests for records 
from one individual. The Committee regarded the requests as extensive and specifically felt that 
the May 29 request was filed solely to harass the Schools. According to Attorney Thibeault, the 
Committee entered executive session to discuss strategy with respect to initiating litigation that 
would either challenge the requestor or prompt the Supervisor to enforce a specific section of the 
public records law which allows a municipality to be relieved of its obligation to provide records. 
See G.L. c. 66, § 10(c); 950 C.M.R. 32.06(4)(f) (supervisor of records may relieve municipality 
of obligation to provide copies of requested records if request is part of a series of 
contemporaneous requests that are frivolous or designed to intimidate or harass). It was 
counsel's belief that had the Committee publicly identified the specific litigation it planned to 
discuss, such detail would have compromised the confidentiality of the executive session 
discussion and alerted the requestor who had pending requests with the Committee. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We find that the discussion in executive session was proper under Purpose 3 where it 
pertained to a decision to pursue litigation against an individual. The Committee reasonably 
believed that identifying the litigation matter or the individual would have compromised the 
Committee's litigating position. See OML 2015-136; OML 2015-44. Because identifying the 
litigation matter or the individual could have had a detrimental effect on the Committee's 
litigating position, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting certain 
information regarding the anticipated executive session on the meeting notice. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on June 8 to discuss litigation strategy or by failing to identify the litigation 
matter in the meeting notice. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to 
be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ted Teichert 
Andover School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 