===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 1, 2017 
OML 2017-32 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law LLP 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
In late 2016, this office received complaints from Town of Westford residents Uri 
Blumenthal, Ilona Lapkisa, Jennifer Davis, as well as Attorney Richard Yurko, who represents 
unnamed residents of Westford and Chelmsford, alleging that the Westford Board of Selectmen 
and the Westford Planning Board (collectively, "the Boards") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The Boards had responded to the complaints by letters dated November 
10, 2016 and November 16, 2016. In essence, the complaints collectively allege that i) the 
Boards deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to agree to participate in a mediation with 
Newport Materials, LLC ("Newport"); ii) the Boards conducted the mediation with Newport 
outside of a noticed meeting; iii) the Boards failed to identify in meeting notices that they were 
discussing mediation in executive session; and iv) the Boards improperly discussed mediation in 
executive session. 
On November 14, 2016, after several administrative complaints were filed with the 
Boards, but before we received the complaints, four registered voters filed an action in 
Middlesex Superior Court on November 14, 2016 alleging that the Boards violated the Open 
Meeting Law on the same facts and allegations raise by these complaints, Amos v. Town of 
Westford, Middlesex Superior Court, CANO. 1681CV03254. Those voters did not file 
1 The complaints filed by Uri Blumenthal and Ilona Lapkisa were filed with the Boards on October 23, 2016 and 
filed with our office by letter dated December 26, 2016; the complaint filed by Jennifer Davis was filed with the 
Boards on October 28, 2016 and filed with our office on December 30, 2016; the complaint filed by Attorney 
Richard Yurko was filed with the Boards on October 4, 2016 and filed with our office on November 16, 2016. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
complaints with this office.2 Our general practice is to stay the review of a complaint filed with 
our office where the complainant has also pursued an action in Superior Court on the same set of 
facts. While the first complaints were filed with our office on November 16, 2016, we stayed 
our review of all complaints until time expired for each of the complainants who had an 
opportunity to file their complaint with our office, at most 90 days from the date of the alleged 
violations. See 940 CMR 29.05(6). Before the 90-day deadline expired, the Middlesex Superior 
Court (Lu, J.) issued a written decision on November 29, 2016 denying the plaintiffs' motion for 
a preliminary injunction. We proceeded to review the complaints filed with our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Boards did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints filed the Boards, the Boards' responses, 
and the complaints filed with our office. We reviewed the notices for the Board of Selectmen's 
May 10, 2016; May 24, 2016; June 14, 2016; June 28, 2016; August 23, 2016; and September 
27, 2016 meetings. We also reviewed the notices for the Planning Board's May 10, 2016; May 
24, 2016; June 6, 2016; June 24, 2016; July 18, 2016; September 6, 2016; September 19, 2016; 
and September 27, 2016 meetings. We spoke with the Boards' legal counsel by telephone on 
December 6, 2016, and reviewed an email from the Boards' counsel dated January 19, 2017.3 
Although we discussed the Boards' executive sessions with counsel, we did not review the 
Boards' executive session meeting minutes because the Boards assert that those minutes are 
subject to the attorney-client privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e). We also spoke with 
complainant Richard Yurko by telephone on February 2, 2017. Finally, we considered the 
Superior Court decision denying a preliminary injunction request by four registered voters, 
Amos v. Town of Westford. Middlesex Superior Court, CA NO. 1681CV03254, November 29, 
2016 (Lu, J.) 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Westford Board of Selectmen and the Westford 
Planning Board are both five-member public bodies. Newport is a company seeking to construct 
an asphalt plant in the Town of Westford. After being denied its application by the Planning 
Board, Newport filed a civil action in land court, Newport Materials, LLC, et al. v. Michael 
Green et al. (Town of Westford Planning Board). Land Court Misc. No. 429867 and 15 MISC 
000164-AHS. The Board of Selectmen serves as the chief executive officer of the Town and 
worked with the Planning Board to oversee the litigation.4 Because the minutes of the Boards' 
executive sessions have not yet been publicly released, we do not recount the detail of what 
occurred, but provide a general overview for the purpose of resolving these complaints. 
The notices for the Board of Selectmen's May 10, May 24, June 14, June 28, August 23, 
and September 27, 2016 meetings all included a topic similar to "discuss strategy with respect to 
2 The Open Meeting Law provides two avenues for pursuing complaints. Any person may file a complaint with a 
public body using the Attorney General's complaint form. The public body then has 14 business days to respond to 
the complaint. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29,05(5). If the complainant is not satisfied with the response, then 
the complainant may file a copy of the complaint with the Attorney General, but only after 30 days has passed since 
the complaint was first filed with the public body, G,L, c, 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(6), Alternatively, three or 
more registered voters may file a civil action in Superior Court. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer you to in the third person, 
4 See Chapters 33.1 and 33.2 of the Town's General Bylaws. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
litigation for Newport Materials, LLC et al v. Westford Zoning Board of Appeals, et al and v. 
Planning Board of Westford, et al, as an open session may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the public body." In some cases, the notice identified a joint meeting with 
the Planning Board. Prior to convening the executive sessions, the Board of Selectmen met in 
open session and took roll-call votes pursuant to motions with the same wording as the meeting 
notices. 
Lhe notices for the Planning Board's May 10, May 24, June 6, June 24, July 18, 
September 6, September 19, and September 27, 2016 meetings included a topic similar to "Meet 
to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, related to Newport Materials, LLC, vs. Planning 
Board of Westford, et al, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating 
position of the Town." Prior to convening the executive sessions, the Planning Board met in 
open session and took roll-call votes pursuant to motions with the same wording as the meeting 
notices. For all of these notices, the Boards identified that they would be meeting in executive 
session, that they would be meeting to discuss litigation strategy, and that the discussion 
concerned litigation with Newport. The Boards never specifically identified mediation as a 
subject of their discussions. 
On May 10, 2016, the Boards held a noticed joint meeting in executive session where 
they discussed the possibility of settling the litigation with Newport. During a second joint 
meeting of the Boards in executive session on May 24, 2016, the Boards voted to have the Town 
participate in mediation with Newport in an effort to resolve the litigation. The Planning Board 
met independently during a noticed executive session on June 6, 2016, where it voted to 
designate a representative to participate in mediation on behalf of the Planning Board, although 
that representative did not ultimately attend the mediation. During a joint meeting of the Boards 
on June 14, 2016, the Board of Selectmen voted to designate its representative to participate in 
the mediation. Mediation between the Town and Newport took place on June 20, 2016. A 
representative from the Board of Selectmen as well as legal counsel for the Town participated in 
the mediation. No other Board of Selectmen or Planning Board members participated in the 
mediation. 
During the Planning Board's June 24, 2016 executive session meeting, the Planning 
Board voted to accept a settlement in principle with Newport, which had resulted from the 
mediation. During the Board of Selectmen's June 28, 2016 executive session, the Board of 
Selectmen voted to accept the same settlement in principle. During a joint executive session 
between the two Boards on September 27, 2016, the Boards voted to approve the final 
settlement. On October 25, 2016, the Boards held a noticed public meeting to announce the 
terms of the settlement. 
In its November 29, 2016 decision reviewing these same facts, the Middlesex Superior 
Court issued an order denying a request from four registered voters for preliminary injunction 
against the Boards. The Court wrote that, "a plain reading of the statute, along with definitions 
provided by the Legislature, compel this Court to conclude that [G.L. c. 30A] § 21(a)(9) does not 
apply to a case where, as here, a single member of the Board, who is without authority to make 
any decisions on the Board's behalf, attends mediation. Rather, § 21(a)(9) applies to a situation 
3 
===PAGE 4===
in which a quorum of the Board seeks to participate in mediation." Amos v. Town of Westford. 
Middlesex Superior Court, CA NO. 1681CV03254, November 29, 2016 (Lu, J.). 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Boards Deliberated in a Properly Noticed Meeting to Agree to Each Send a 
Representative to Mediation. 
The complaints allege that the Boards deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to agree to 
participate in mediation to resolve litigation with Newport. The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed." Id For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the members of the public body. IcL A public body may enter into executive session to 
discuss "strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3). 
Here, the Boards made the decision to participate in mediation during a May 24, 2016 
joint meeting in executive session. The Boards further discussed the matter in subsequent 
executive sessions, and each decided to appoint a representative to participate in the mediation. 
The Boards deny that they engaged in any deliberation outside of noticed meetings, and we find 
no evidence suggesting that there were any discussions outside of noticed meetings. Therefore, 
we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
II. The Open Meeting Law did Not Require Posting of the Mediation Sessions as They 
Were Not Attended by a Quorum of Either Board. 
The complaints allege that the Boards conducted the mediation with Newport outside of a 
noticed meeting. During executive session meetings in which the Boards discussed litigation 
strategy, the Boards agreed to engage in mediation. In doing so, the Boards had two options to 
proceed consistent with the Open Meeting Law. First, each Board could appoint a representative 
to represent the Board in mediation. Second, the Board could engage in the mediation itself. For 
a quorum of either Board to participate in mediation, the Board would have to notice the meeting 
and either conduct the mediation in open session or meet in executive session only for the 
purpose of meeting or conferring with a mediator. To proceed under this second option, the 
Board would have to vote to participate in the mediation while in open session and discuss and 
approve any actions that resulted from the mediation in open session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(9) ("Purpose 9"). The Boards chose the first option and appointed representatives to meet 
with a mediator and with Newport. At no time did a quorum of either Board meet with the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
mediator or Newport. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
this allegation. 
III. The Boards Provided Sufficient Detail in their Meeting Notices Regarding their 
Anticipated Executive Session Discussions. 
The complaints allege that the Boards did not adequately notify the public that they 
would be participating in mediation with Newport. We conclude that the meeting notices met 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.5 When noticing an executive session topic, the public body must provide as 
much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for the executive session. See OML 
2015-136. Public bodies must identify in the notice for a meeting the specific executive session 
purpose they intend to invoke to justify an executive session, and must provide as much detail as 
possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion without 
compromising the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2015-63; OML 2011-9. Thus, 
with respect to Purpose 3, we have said that, unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the 
executive session, public bodies should state in their notice the name of the litigation matter that 
will be discussed. See OML 2014-145; OML 2013-97. 
Here, the Boards provided sufficient detail of their anticipated executive session 
discussion in each of their respective meeting notices. Generally, all that is required for a public 
body when noticing an executive session to discuss litigation strategy is to declare that the public 
body may enter executive session to discuss litigation strategy and to identify the litigation 
matter. Disclosing further detail may risk compromising the confidentiality of the litigating 
strategy. The notices for the meetings during which the Boards met in executive session to 
discuss the Newport litigation all identified that the Boards would i) meet in executive session; 
ii) to discuss litigation strategy; iii) concerning the Newport litigation. The Boards were not 
required to disclose the additional detail that they were considering mediation as a strategy to 
resolve litigation. Therefore, we find that the Boards' notices met the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
IV. The Boards did Not Violate the Law by Considering Mediation in Executive Session 
Under Purpose 3. 
The complaints allege that the Boards violated the Open Meeting Law by agreeing to 
participate in mediation while in executive session under Purpose 3. Rather, the complainants 
argue, the Boards should have voted to participate in mediation in open session and then 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
convened in executive session under Purpose 9. Puipose 9 permits a public body to enter into 
executive session: 
To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with respect 
to any litigation or decision on any public business within its jurisdiction involving 
another party, group or entity, provided that: 
i. any decision to participate in mediation shall be made in an open session and 
the parties, issues involved and purpose of the mediation shall be disclosed; and 
ii. no action shall be taken by any public body with respect to those issues which 
are the subject of the mediation without deliberation and approval for such action 
at an open session 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(9). This executive session purpose applies when a public body seeks to 
participate as a quorum in a formal mediation. The act of the public body itself to meet or confer 
with the mediator triggers this executive session purpose. Had the Boards wished to meet with 
the mediator as a quorum in executive session, it would have been necessary to invoke Purpose 
9. 
Attorney Yurko's complaint suggests that the Boards mischaracterized mediation as 
litigation strategy and that the Boards were required to invoke Purpose 9 prior to any executive 
session during which the Boards approved or discussed mediation. We do not agree with this 
assertion. Purpose 9 governs executive-session participation in mediation by a quorum of a 
public body. Here, no quorum of a public body (i.e., no quorum of either board) participated in 
mediation. Accordingly, Purpose 9 was never implicated and would not have been an 
appropriate purpose to invoke for the challenged executive sessions. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Boards did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Boards. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
6 
===PAGE 7===
cc: Uri Blumenthal 
Ilona Lapkisa 
Jennifer Davis 
Attorney Richard Yurko 
Westford Board of Selectmen 
Westford Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
7 