===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.govlago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
June 25, 2012 
2012 OML - 51 
Lionel C. Cloutier 
Chair 
Winchendon Board of Health 
109 Front St. 
Winchendon, MA 01475 
Robert O'Keefe 
Chair 
Winchendon Board of Selectmen 
109 Front St. 
Winchendon, MA 01475 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairs Cloutier and O'Keefe: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Kevin Bliss on January 23, 
2012, alleging that the Winchendon Board of Health and Board of Selectmen (the "Boards") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that 
the Islome of our town chairman's [sic] have organized a monthly meeting" that does not 
comply with the Open Meeting Law. The complaint alleges that these meetings included the 
chairs of the Board of Selectmen, the Board of Health, and the School Committee. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Boards on December 21, 2011. Board of Health Chair 
Lionel Cloutier' responded to the complaint by letter dated December 26, 2011, though the 
Board of Health was not able to obtain a quorum to approve this response. Board of Selectmen 
Chair Robert O'Keefe responded on behalf of that Board by letter dated January 11, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that these monthly meetings did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law because there was not a quorum of any of the individual boards at these meetings, 
and the gathering of the members of the various boards did not constitute a meeting of a separate 
'For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
public body. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the December 21, 2011 complaint; 
Chair Cloutier's December 26, 2011 response; Chair O'Keefe's January 11, 2012 response; and 
the January 23, 2012 complaint. We also reviewed an email sent by Chair Cloutier to 
undisclosed recipients, dated October 26, 2011. 
FACTS 
On October 26, 2011, Board of Health Chair Lionel Cloutier sent an email to the chairs of 
other Winchendon boards and committees suggesting that the chairs meet occasionally for 
"discussion and sharing of information, concerning projects being brought in front of said 
boards." Chair Cloutier noted that "many times one board has little or no idea what another 
board is working on." Other board chairs agreed, and the group began meeting in December 
2011. Chair Cloutier explained in his December 26, 2011 letter that: 
The chairmen of several regulatory boards met for dinner and had an informal discussion 
of how we can better help applicants wend their way through the red tape of getting 
permits from our various boards. There was no quorum of any board, no meeting was 
ever opened, there was no deliberation, no decisions were made, no minutes were taken, 
and we had no agenda, except to throw out a few ideas on how to facilitate an applicant's 
transfer from one board to the next...We feel that we can work more efficiently, if we are 
aware of which board handles what, and the order in which an applicant should appear 
before each of the pertinent boards...I, as the chairman of the Board of Health had 
discussed at an official BOH meeting, getting together with other chairmen for informal 
sharing of information. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. A "public body" is defined, in relevant part, as any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Here, there was no 
quorum of any public body present at the meetings of the board chairs. Furthermore, the group 
itself is not a public body because, although the public body chairs serve in municipal 
government, together they do not constitute a body empowered to act collectively. See OML 
2011-42; OML 2010-1.1  It is clear from the allegations in the complaint and the responses by 
the Chairs of the Board of Health and Board of Selectmen that the purpose of the informal 
meetings was to share information between the chairs about the activities of their respective 
boards. While this serves a public purpose, the group was not empowered by any municipal or 
state authority with any policy making or advising power, has no quorum requirement for 
convening meetings, and takes no votes. Such an informal gathering of public officials does not 
constitute a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. Had the chairs been formally 
appointed to this group and empowered by some authority to act collectively, this analysis might 
have a different outcome. See OML 2012-28. 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Chairs of the Boards of Health and Selectmen did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by participating in an informal, information sharing meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
J'.nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kevin Bliss 
3 