===PAGE 1===
MARTHA  COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE  OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 29, 2013 
OML 2013 — 69 
Tom Carter, Chair 
Ashfield Board of Selectmen 
412 Main Street 
PO Box 560 
Ashfield, MA 01330 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Carter: 
This office received a complaint from Suzanne Corbett, dated August 24, 2012, 
alleging that the Ashfield Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about June 6, 2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated June 
25, 2012. In her complaint, Ms. Corbett alleges that, based on the Board's disclosure of a 
possible outside deliberation during its May 30, 2012 meeting, the Board engaged in 
deliberation, through an administrative assistant, outside of a properly posted meeting 
regarding the reorganization of the Board's liaison positions. 
We reviewed the June 6, 2012 complaint; the Board's June 25, 2012 response; and 
the August 24, 2012 complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes from the Board's May 30, 2012 meeting. Finally, we 
spoke individually by telephone with Board members Ron Coler, Paulette Leukhardt, 
former Chair Doug Field, and with Mary Fitz-Gibbon, Assistant to the Board. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, but 
took appropriate steps to cure the violation. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
May 9, 2012, the Board commenced its annual discussion of reorganizing its liaison 
positions to various Town boards. At some point after this meeting, Board member Ron 
Coler approached the Board's Administrative Assistant, Mary Fitz-Gibbon, and expressed 
his interest in the Board of Health liaison position, which was held at that time by Board 
CI 
===PAGE 2===
member Paulette Leukhardt. Ms. Fitz-Gibbon then emailed Ms. Leukhardt on May 21, 
2012, asking to speak with her. Later that day, Ms. Fitz-Gibbon and Ms. Leukhardt spoke, 
and Ms. Fitz-Gibbon mentioned that Mr. Coler was interested in the Board of Health 
liaison position. Ms. Leukhardt indicated to Ms. Fitz-Gibbon that she would be willing to 
cede the position to Mr. Coler. 
Following this conversation, Ms. Leukhardt, believing that she had engaged in an 
improper deliberation, requested that former Board Chairman Doug Field add an item to 
the May 30, 2012 meeting notice. The notice, posted with the Town Clerk on May 25, 
2012, listed among the topics for discussion the following item, as requested by Ms. 
Leukhardt: "New Business: Open Meeting Law- Discussion regarding definition of 
deliberations, avoiding or preventing complaints." On May 30, 2012, the Board convened 
a meeting in open session. When the Board reached this item on the agenda, Ms. 
Leukhardt disclosed the content of her May 21, 2012 conversation with Ms. Fitz-Gibbon, 
noted that it may have constituted an improper deliberation, and read aloud the definition 
of "deliberation" under the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v.  
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation," in part, as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
Because this is a three-member Board, two members constitute a quorum. Here, 
we fmd that a quorum of the Board engaged in deliberation, unintentionally facilitated by 
Ms. Fitz-Gibbon, about the Board of Health liaison positions outside of a properly posted 
meeting.' As the Board acknowledged during its meeting, a public body may not use a 
non-member, such as a staff member, to communicate on matters that the Board would 
otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. 
Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open 
Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). However, we find 
that the Board cured the violation by disclosing the details of the improper discussion 
1  While this discussion may appear administrative in nature, certain discussions regarding procedural or 
administrative matters may relate to public business within a body's jurisdiction, such as where the 
discussion involves the organization and leadership of the public body, committee assignments, rules or 
bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body should consider or take action on specific topics at 
a future meeting. OML 2011-38; see also  OML 2012-63 (fmding that an email sent to a quorum of a Board 
relating to an individual Board member's authority to make decisions on behalf of the Board was public 
business within the Board's jurisdiction). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
during its May 30, 2012 meeting. See OML 2012-14. 2  Where, as occurred here, a public 
body takes corrective action in response to a complaint filed with that body, we strongly 
encourage complainants to reconsider whether further review by this office remains 
necessary. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by engaging in a deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting, but took 
appropriate steps to cure the violation by disclosing the details of the improper discussion 
during a properly posted meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Suzanne Corbett 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 