===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 31, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 105 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
janelle@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on March 12, 2025, alleging that the 
Medford City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 11, 2025, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated January 30, 2025.  The complaint alleges that the Council 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding a letter to Governor Maura Healey about the 
state’s emergency shelter policy.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Council’s response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed materials 
forwarded by the complainant with her request for review.  Finally, we communicated with you 
via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On or about December 13, 2024, a letter was sent to 
Governor Maura Healey regarding changes to the state’s emergency shelter policy (“the Letter”).  
The Letter was signed by elected officials of 39 municipalities, including councilors representing 
a quorum of the Council.  Neither the Council nor any of its members (“Councilors”) contributed 
to the preparation of the Letter.
1  Salem City Councilor Kyle Davis emailed Medford City Clerk 
 
1 It appears that the Letter was prepared by member(s) of the Worcester and / or Salem City Council(s).  The Letter 
is also the subject of four other determinations issued contemporaneously herewith. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Adam Hurtubise, asking that Councilors sign the Letter, which was accessible via a link in the 
email.  Clerk Hurtubise forwarded the email, containing the link, to each Councilor separately.  
Each Councilor who responded to the request, either by email or verbally, did so independently 
and without copying their fellow Councilors on their communication.  The Medford City 
Councilors did not discuss the Letter amongst themselves prior to responding to Salem City 
Councilor Davis.  After hearing from five of the Medford City Councilors, Councilor Davis 
added their names to the letter and forwarded the letter to the Governor’s office. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
Here, upon receipt of the Letter, some Councilors communicated with outside parties to 
provide
 authority to sign their name to it.  Those who decided to sign on to the letter did so 
without knowing whether their fellow Councilors also signed.  No Councilor communicated with 
any other Councilor about the Letter.  Because communication of each Councilor’s endorsement 
was made independently and was not between or among a quorum of the Council, it did not 
constitute deliberation under the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2011-33 (finding that board 
members’ independent signing of a citizen’s petition did not constitute deliberation where there 
was no evidence that members knew or should have known that their signature would be 
communicated to the other member).
2  Therefore, the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law, as alleged.  This conclusion is consistent with our findings in other contexts, including 
social media, that the Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make 
comments to the general public.  See OML 2024-175; OML 2018-145; OML 2017-111; OML 
2013-74.  Cf. OML 2021-133 (“When comments are made in a social media group that is closed 
to the public, it is reasonably inferable that posts are directed solely at the members of that 
group, and, when a quorum of a public body belongs to a closed group, especially if the group is 
small, it becomes more likely that posts and comments are targeted towards the other public 
body members.”).
3   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when members communicated their endorsement of the Letter.   
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Council failed to post notice of a meeting held to discuss  the 
Letter, we decline to review that allegation in light of our conclusion that the Council did not deliberate about the 
Letter. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Medford City Council (via email: ccmembers@medford -ma.gov) 
 Laura Ortiz (via email: ) 
 Medford City Clerk (via email: ahurtubise@medford-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
