===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 24, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 10 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Corbo:  
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin on September 6, 2023, alleging that 
the Carver Redevelopment Authority (the “Authority”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Authority on August 71 and you 
responded on behalf of the Authority by letter dated September 6 in conformance with an 
extension granted by our office.  The complaint alleges that topics listed on the notice for the 
Commission's August 1 meeting were insufficiently specific.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the complaint.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Authority’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, we viewed the 
video recording of the August 1 meeting
2 and reviewed the notice and minutes of the meeting 
held on August 1 and minutes of the Authority’s meeting of September 5.  We also reviewed 
emails between Authority member Johanna Leighton and Attorney Kathleen O’Donnell, which 
Mr. Belbin forwarded to us.
3   
 
  
 
1Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2The video can be accessed at http://area58.tv/video/carver-redevelopment-authority-august-1-2023/ 
3According to Mr. Belbin, the emails were secured through a Freedom of Information Act request.   We understand 
that Attorney O’Donnell serves as legal counsel to the Authority, although we are not aware of any claimed 
privilege relative to the communication. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
Sharon Clarke served as a member and chair of the Authority.  She resigned in or around 
June because she no longer resided in the Town of Carver.  On July 22, Authority member 
Leighton sent an email to Attorney O’Donnell.  She wrote “on behalf of my committee to find a 
solution/resolve to bring back Sharon Clarke as a consultant on our team.”  Ms. Leighton noted 
that Ms. Clarke resigned from the Authority as the result of a taxpayer’s “legal complaint” 
challenging Ms. Clarke’s qualifications to serve on the Authority following her change in 
residency.  Ms. Leighton then continued: “OK, now we want her back as she played an important 
role” as a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals and as chair of the Redevelopment Authority 
“with close ties/knowledge to our URP project with Hillwood.4  I/we want to keep that tie to the 
inner circle of Hillwood as we hope to gain back when the economics slide to a profit vs a loss.”  
Asking how to “make that happen,” she invited Attorney O’Donnell to the Authority’s August 1 
meeting to (among other things) “inform us how to bring Sharon in as a consultant.”    
 
The notice of the August 1 meeting listed as a topic “Utilization of Consultant.”  Based 
upon minutes of the August 1 meeting, as well as video of the meeting, it appears that Sharon 
Clarke was the only member of the public who attended the meeting.  Attorney O’Donnell did 
not attend.  After Acting Chair Savery Moore introduced the topic, Board member Leighton 
spoke to the need for a consultant.  Looking into the camera, she asked prospective consultants to 
reach out to the Authority, adding “I just want to make it public.”  There followed a discussion 
regarding authority to retain a consultant and Ms. Clarke’s qualifications.  In response to 
questions from Ms. Clarke, members of the Authority stated at the August 1 meeting that there 
was no job description or posting for the position of consultant.  Ms. Leighton relayed advice she 
received from counsel that a posting was not necessary.  The Authority was following legal 
advice by making the process “as public as possible,” according to Ms. Leighton. 
 
When it came time to articulate a motion on the topic, Ms. Leighton asked if she could 
“point at Sharon [Clarke] and ask if she is interested.”  After some discussion, the motion was 
refined to “ask Ms. Sharon Clarke, former chair of the RDA, to submit a resume for the purpose 
of becoming the consultant for the Redevelopment Authority, primarily on the urban renewal 
plan for the North Carver site but also on a number of other smaller items that she was involved 
in her prior role here that are still open-ended.”  The motion passed. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
 
4 As described in meeting minutes, including the minutes of the September 5 meeting, the Authority had reviewed a 
proposal from Hillwood to develop property in North Carver during Sharon Clarke’s tenure on the Authority.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.5  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Notice of the August 1 meeting was insufficiently specific.  The Authority did not plan to 
simply discuss “utilization of a consultant,” as stated on the notice.  Instead, members planned to 
discuss Ms. Clarke, and how to bring her back to the Authority as a (likely, paid) consultant, just 
a couple of months after she stepped down as chair of the Authority.  There is no doubt that the 
Authority wanted Ms. Clarke to return to the Authority in some capacity.  The Authority directly 
solicited advice from its counsel on how to “make that happen.”  The meeting topic “utilization 
of consultant” without reference to Ms. Clarke was incomplete at best and fell short of the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirement that notice topics be listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the anticipated nature of the discussion.   
 
We have consistently stated that to comply with the specificity requirement, the names of 
interview candidates and applicants for employment or appointment which are known 48 hours 
in advance of a meeting should be listed on a meeting notice.  See, e.g., OML 2023-15; OML 
2022-219; OML 2020-80.  We recognize, as the Authority notes in its response, that Ms. Clarke 
was not interviewed or appointed at the August 1 meeting.  Nonetheless, specificity is not 
reserved for governmental action like an interview or appointment to a public body.  See OML 
2023-199 (noting that “there is nothing within the Open Meeting Law that limits the notice 
requirement to those topics that will be subject to a vote”); OML 2013-46 (Notice topic 
“professional services” was not sufficiently specific.)  We find that the Chair reasonably 
anticipated that the Authority would discuss retaining Sharon Clarke as a consultant at the 
August 1 meeting and that the topic should have been clearly listed on the notice for the meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its August 1 meeting.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  As the Authority did not take action at the 
August 1 meeting to retain Ms. Clarke as a consultant, we order no further remedial action. 
  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincer
ely,  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Robert Belbin (via e- mail: )  
 Carver Town Administrator (via e-mail: Robert.fennessy@carverma.gov) 
  Carver Town C lerk (via e-mail: town.clerk@carverma.org) 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
