===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 35 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jeffrey L. Madison 
Aquinnah Town Administrator 
townadministrator@aquinnah-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint  
Dear Mr. Madison: 
This office received a complaint from Rich Saltzberg on December 22, 2022, alleging 
that the Aquinnah Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 17, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by email dated November 29, 2022. The complaint alleges that 
the minutes of the Board’s executive session held on August 1, 2018,1 are insufficiently detailed 
and that it failed to timely approve, and review and release those minutes after the purpose for 
secrecy had expired. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely approve, and review and release minutes from its August 1 executive session. We do 
not find that it violated the Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s 
request for further review. We also reviewed executive session minutes from August 1 and 
meeting minutes from August 23, 2022.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 2, the Martha’s Vineyard Times published an 
article relating to an incident involving Aquinnah Police Chief Randhi Belain. The article stated 
that after a night out drinking to celebrate his birthday, in the early hours of March 31, Chief 
Belain entered a home that was not his own and the alarmed homeowners called authorities. The 
article also revealed that the Aquinnah Select Board met with Chief Belain in executive session 
that Wednesday, and “Without saying what happened behind closed doors, [Town Administrator 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2018. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Jeffrey] Madison said the board and he support the chief. ‘I personally, unequivocally, without 
hesitation support him, end of quote,’ Madison said.” 
Meeting minutes from the August 1 executive session indicate that the Board 
unanimously voted to enter executive session at 10:00 a.m., pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(l) 
(“Purpose 1”) “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather 
than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” 
The minutes, in part, provide the following: 
The Board discussed [the] article published in the MV Times after which Chief 
Belain admitted that his actions did not reflect well on the Community. He 
explained the circumstances leading up to the incident and assured the Board that 
this would not happen again. 
Each member of the Board expressed their confidence in Chief Belain following 
his comments. Each member of the Board noted their confidence in the Chief and 
acknowledged his good work throughout his tenure. 
The Board subsequently adjourned at 10:07 a.m. The executive session meeting minutes were 
approved at a meeting on August 23, 2022, four years later. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Minutes of the Executive Session Were Sufficiently Detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of al
l meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1). Although minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2019-81; OML 2012-29; 
OML 2011-55. 2 When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look 
for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. For substantial compliance, the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
id.  
 
The Complaint alleges that the Board “deli
 berately skimped on details” when it drafted 
the meeting minutes from the August 1 executive session to avoid further embarrassing Chief 
Belain. The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the content of a discussion at a meeting; rather, 
it requires that meeting minutes accurately summarize what was actually discussed. See OML 
2022-189; see also OML 2015-155 (explaining that minutes should reflect what was actually 
discussed at a meeting, not matters that were not discussed). Therefore, we review whether the 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes accurately summarize the discussions that took place, not whether any particular 
information was documented in the minutes. Here, the meeting minutes of the seven-minute 
executive session reflect that the Board met with Chief Belain, that they discussed the article in 
the Martha Vineyard Times, and he acknowledged that his actions did not reflect well on the 
community. He went on to explain the circumstances surrounding the incident and assured the 
Board it would not happen again. Each Board member expressed their support of Chief Belain, 
thanked him for his service, and voted to adjourn. We find that the minutes sufficiently 
summarized the discussion that occurred during this brief executive session, and that a member 
of the public could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
 
2. The Minutes of the Executive Session Were Not Timely Approved. 
 
 Next, the complainant alleges that the meeting minutes of the August 1 executive session 
were not timely approved. We agree. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The 
meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The 
Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public 
body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 C.M.R. 29.11(2). 
 
The minutes of the executive session held on August 1, 2018, were approved during a 
mee
ting on August 23, 2022, four years after the fact, and long after the Board was required to 
do so (either within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever was later). 
The Board does not dispute the untimely approval but explained that the Town Administrator is 
charged with drafting minutes and that he has other considerable responsibilities. We understand 
the demands on a public body with limited staff; however, the Board is still obligated to timely 
approve minutes. See OML 2018-111; OML 2017-115. If staff resources are not available to 
create minutes for the Board to approve, then Board members must take on this responsibility to 
ensure compliance with the law. See OML 2017-115. Therefore, we find that the Board failed to 
timely approve the minutes from its executive session on August 1. 
 
3. The Board Must Periodically Review Executive Session Minutes and Release the 
Minutes When the Purpose for Secrecy Has Been Served. 
 
Approval of executive session minutes is a separate and unrelated obligation from the 
requi
rement that executive session minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether they 
should be released to the public. See OML 2019-115. The initial approval of executive session 
minutes is to approve the minutes as an accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive 
session and does not mean that the minutes are approved for release to the public. Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our 
office has found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.  
 
The com
plaint also alleges that the Board failed to review the executive session minutes 
and release them once publication would no longer defeat the lawful purpose for secrecy. The 
Board has not presented any evidence that it periodically reviewed the minutes and decided to 
withhold them for four years, rather, it appears that the minutes were not created until they were 
requested in 2022, when they were approved and subsequently released to the complainant. We 
remind the Board of its obligations to create minutes for all meetings, including executive 
sessions, in a timely manner, and to periodically review executive session minutes for public 
release.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where it failed to timely approve minutes from its August 1 executive session. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board 
that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. The minutes have since been created and released to 
the public and therefore we order no further remedial action. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Rich Salzberg (via e-mail: ) 
 Aquinnah Town Clerk (via e-mail: townclerk@aquinnah-ma.gov) 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 