===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       January 7, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 6 
 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on October 23, 2025, alleging that 
the Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 17, 2025, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 7, 2025.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board failed to periodically review executive session minutes to determine whether there is a 
continued purpose for nondisclosure.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting in the way 
alleged, and that this was an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the 
notice, minutes and video recording of the Board meeting held on October 1, 2025.
1   
 
The Open Meeting Law allows executive session meeting minutes to be withheld from 
disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session 
has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be 
disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law 
applies.  Id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at 
 
1 A video recording of the Board meeting held on October 1, 2025, can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XigmGApqc0.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and “such 
determination shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be 
included in the minutes of that meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although “reasonable 
interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every six 
months to be appropriate.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.
2   
 
Here, the Board acknowledges, and we find, that it failed to review executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals to determine if continued nondisclosure was warranted.  Thus, we 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  In response to the complaint, the Chair 
reviewed the executive session minutes and announced the outcome of the review during the 
October 1, 2025, meeting, and the Board recorded this announcement in the October 1, 2025, 
meeting minutes.  As such, we order no further remedial action.  However, we remind the Board 
that a public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing.  If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains ongoing, it must continue to review those same executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired.  See 
OML 2019-133.   
 
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  The Board was advised by the Attorney General last year, on November 6, 2024, of its 
obligation to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals to determine if continued 
nondisclosure was warranted, and that reasonable intervals means a quarterly review or a review 
every six months.  See OML 2024-206.  Furthermore, we specifically advised the Board that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  Because the 
Board had previously been advised that the failure to review executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals violates the Open Meeting Law, we find that this violation is intentional.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2023-216; OML 2013-63.  However, we decline 
to recommend the imposition of a civil penalty in this instance where the minutes were reviewed 
before the complaint was filed with our office for review.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c); OML 2022-
184; OML 2018-108; OML 2015-122.  
 
In her request for further review, the complainant suggests that the Board also failed to 
timely release certain executive session meeting minutes and continues to withhold the minutes 
past the time that publication would defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session.  We 
generally decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to 
the Board because the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  We find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original 
complaint and thus we do not review its merits.  However, we note that with respect to executive 
sessions held under Purpose 3, “the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits 
used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
until such time as a litigating . . . position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure . . . .”  Id.  
Once the litigating position is no longer jeopardized by disclosure of the executive session 
minutes and materials, “they shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more 
of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure.”  Id.  The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive 
session minutes lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School 
Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151.  With respect to executive sessions held 
under Purpose 1, if the Board has taken all the action it was authorized to take with respect to an 
employee, then the Open Meeting Law would no longer provide a basis for withholding the 
executive session minutes.  Again, even if the Open Meeting Law no longer authorizes the 
withholding of the minutes, the minutes may be exempt from production, in whole or in part, 
under the Public Records Law.  See OML 2020-142; OML 2015-170. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board’s failure to periodically review 
executive session minutes was an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and caution the Board 
that a future finding of an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law may result in a civil 
penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.  In addition, we order all members of the Board to attend a 
webinar training on the Open Meeting Law conducted by our office within the next 100 days.
3 
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Catherine Foster – By email only:  
Adams Board of Selectmen c/o Chair John Duval – By email only: 
jduval@town.adams.ma.us 
Adams Town Clerk Haley Meczywor – By email only: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
3 Information about our webinars can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/info-
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
