===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
  April 28, 2020         OML 2020 – 52    Elizabeth L. Sherwood, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 Quincy, MA 02169  By e-mail only: esherwood@mhtl.com   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Sherwood:  This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on November 5, 2018, alleging that the Medfield Social Emotional Learning Task Force (the “Task Force”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Task Force on October 1, 2018, and Attorney Cynthia Amara responded, on behalf of the Task Force, by letter dated October 18, 2018.1  The complaint alleges that the Task Force is a subcommittee of the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) and failed to post notice of meetings and keep meeting minutes.    Following our review, we find that the Task Force is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Task Force’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Task Force’s response to the request for further review.  We also reviewed the open session minutes of the Committee’s August 28, 2017, September 18, 2017, June 4, 2018, September 4, 2018, and September 17, 2018 meetings, as well as video recordings of the August 28, 2017, and September 18, 2017, meetings.2  Finally, we spoke with you on April 17, 2020.                                                    1 The parties agreed to engage in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9) but the attempts at mediation concluded unsuccessfully in March 2020.   2 The video recording of the August 28, 2017, Committee meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F15u_bKufUA&list=PLypOllJHc4M3fUC59QbdX628f7ZWBfg27; the video recording of the September 18, 2017, Committee meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EUrkYECdgFM&list=PLypOllJHc4M3fUC59QbdX628f7ZWBfg27&index=12 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS  We find the facts as follows.  During an August 28, 2017, Committee meeting, Superintendent Marsden announced the creation of a Social Emotional Learning Task Force which would be comprised of teachers, parents, students and Committee members.  The purpose of the Task Force was to improve the social and emotional learning of students, as well as the wellness of staff.  Superintendent Marsden explained that the Task Force would discuss the effects of classroom and extra-curricular schedules, as well as homework, on students’ learning.  He hoped that the whole community would be engaged in these discussions.  The Committee did not take any action or vote on the Task Force.     During a September 18, 2017, Committee meeting, Superintendent Marsden informed the Committee that he appointed David Worthley, Director of Social and Emotional Learning, and Susan Cowell, Wellness Content Specialist, as co-chairs of the Task Force.  He stated that he had recently met with Mr. Worthley and Ms. Cowell to discuss some of the topics that the Task Force would review, including homework policies, classroom scheduling, and supporting staff and students with stress levels.  He hoped this would be a multi-year project with residents, teachers, students and some Committee members serving on the Task Force.  Superintendent Marsden stated that he would send an e-mail seeking volunteers to serve on the Task Force.  Two Committee members, Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke and Jessica Reilly, volunteered to serve on the Task Force.    On September 29, 2017, Superintendent Marsden sent an e-mail to Medfield School parents stating that “a critical component to the Medfield education is the social emotional well-being of our students and staff.  To that end, we are establishing a Social Emotional Learning (SEL) Task Force comprised of parents, staff, school committee members, community members and administration to examine changes that can be made to improve the educational experience for our students and staff.”  He indicated that the Task Force would meet monthly with a “kickoff” meeting on November 2, 2017, and asked that anyone who was interested in becoming a member to e-mail the Task Force.  Sometime prior to the Task Force’s first meeting, Co-Chairs Worthley and Cowell chose 35 individuals to serve on the Task Force.  During a June 4, 2018, Committee meeting, Superintendent Jeffrey Marsden presented a draft homework policy developed by the Task Force and asked the Committee to review it.  During a September 4, 2018, Committee meeting, Superintendent Marsden discussed the homework policy that was originally drafted by the Task Force and then revised over the summer by teachers and administrators.  During a September 17, 2018, Committee meeting, the Committee heard from two members of the Task Force who explained the process of drafting the homework policy and the differences between the original policy drafted by the Task Force and the revised policy drafted by the teachers and administrators.  The Committee then unanimously voted to adopt “Homework Policy 2.0.”  The Task Force created minutes of meetings it held on October 22, 2019, November 20, 2019, December 9, 2019, January 7, 2020, February 3, 2020, and March 4, 2020, and those 
===PAGE 3===
3  
minutes are posted to its website - medfieldsel.com.3  DISCUSSION  A “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law is any “multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.    The complaint alleges that the Task Force is a subcommittee of the Committee and therefore subject to the Open Meeting Law.  As such, it violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notices of meetings and maintain meeting minutes.  Committee Legal Counsel Amara contends that the Task Force is not a public body where it was created by the Superintendent and it therefore falls within the Connelly exception.    To determine whether a multiple member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:  1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public body;” 2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 3.  The entity must serve a “public purpose.”  See OML 2010-1.4  Here, the Task Force is within government because it was created by the Superintendent.  It also serves a public purpose, namely improving the social and emotional learning of students.    The more difficult question is whether the Task Force is a body empowered to act collectively.  We find that the Task Force fails the second prong of the test because it does not have a set membership that is empowered to act collectively.  See OML 2015-162; OML 2015-46; OML 2012-20.  The Task Force consists of a group of individuals from within government and the community, with no set quorum, gathering together to improve the social and emotional learning of students and staff.  While the Task Force consists of 35 members, the number of members who attend each meeting is fluid as all 35 members do not generally attend every meeting and there is no set quorum required for a meeting.  Although the Task Force drafted certain policies and may have reached a consensus on those policies, it takes no votes and all                                                 3 We note that the minutes do not appear to include certain information required by the Open Meeting Law, such as the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, or any decisions made.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  However, because we find that the Task Force is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, the minutes of Task Force meetings are not required to comply with the Law. 4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
recommendations are made to the Superintendent.  See OML 2019-135.  Without a defined 
membership empowered to take collective action, the Task Force fails the second prong of our 
test.  Thus, we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and did not 
violate the Law by failing to post notice and maintain meeting minutes.  See OML 2019-149; 
OML 2015-83. 
 
Because we decide that the Task Force is not a public body, we need not reach the 
question of whether the Task Force would fall within the Connelly exception.  However, we note 
that even if we had found the Task Force to have satisfied all three of the factors discussed 
above, the Task Force would nonetheless not be subject to the Open Meeting Law.  The Supreme 
Judicial Court held in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991), 
that where an individual public official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision 
that the official has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.  Here, the Superintendent assembled the Task Force on his own, was not directed to do so 
by the Committee, and the Committee never voted to create the Task Force.  See OML 2019-
149; OML 2018-62.  Although the Superintendent appeared before the Committee on several 
occasions and provided updates from and recommendations by the Task Force for Committee 
approval, neither the Task Force nor the Superintendent was specifically tasked by the 
Committee with bringing any recommendations before the Committee.  See OML 2015-93; 
OML 2014-56.  Therefore, even if the Task Force satisfied the three factors for evaluating 
whether a group is a public body, we would conclude that the Task Force falls within the 
Connelly exception and is not a subcommittee of the Committee nor otherwise a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law.  A public body will not be deemed to have created a 
subcommittee where individuals, on their own initiative, volunteer to perform a task without any 
formal acknowledgement by the public body.  See 2016-106.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office, the Task Force or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts – By e-mail only:  
Medfield School Committee – By e-mail only: scchair@email.medfield.net 

===PAGE 5===
5  
   This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.   