===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www. mass. gov/ago
June 10,2019 
OML 2019-66
Christopher L. Brown, Esq.
Petrini & Associates, P.C.
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA 01702
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Brown:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Ernest Horn, on behalf of his client James 
Heron, on May 1, 2018, alleging that the Milford Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on February 26, 2018, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 23, 
2018.1 The complaint alleges that the Board improperly met in executive session on October 24, 
2017, and on January 8, 2018, and discussed the reputation and character of Mr. Heron, the 
complainant and a Milford police officer, without providing him with notice 48 hours prior to the 
meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Board’s 
response to the request for further review. We also reviewed the notices and open and executive 
session minutes of the Board’s October 24, 2017, and January 8, 2018, meetings. Finally, we 
spoke with you by telephone on May 13, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On October 24, 2017, and January 8, 2018, the Board held 
a meeting and unanimously voted by roll call to enter into executive session to “discuss the
1 We note that the Board requested additional information from the complainant on March 6, and the complainant 
responded on March 9. The Board had 10 business days after receiving the complainant’s response to review and 
respond to the complaint. See 940 CMR 29.05(6).

===PAGE 2===
Police Chiefs contract.” The Police Chief was present at both executive session meetings. The 
discussions that actually occurred during the executive sessions are in dispute.
According to the minutes, the Board began discussions with the Police Chief for a future 
contract during the October 24, 2017, meeting, and then continued its discussions regarding the 
renewal of the Police Chiefs contract during its January 8, 2018, meeting.
The complainant alleges that during the executive session at the October 24, 2017, 
meeting, prior to discussion of the Police Chiefs contract, Board member William Buckley 
mentioned that he had received calls about the complainant’s conduct both while at work and off 
duty. The complainant also alleges that there was discussion about the effect the complainant’s 
children had on his work, as well as possible discipline of the complainant. The complainant 
further alleges that during the January 8, 2018, meeting Mr. Buckley asked what the status of the 
complainant was within the police department.2
In response, the Board states that no Board member mentioned the complainant during 
either the October 24, 2017 or January 8, 2018, executive session meetings. Rather, the Police 
Chief brought up the complainant. Moreover, the Board contends that any discussion of the 
complainant’s conduct actually arose during an individual conversation between Mr. Buckley 
and the Police Chief outside of a meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public 
body may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it 
has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b).
One executive session purpose allows a public body to enter executive session “to discuss 
the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
(“Purpose 1”). The individual to be discussed during such an executive session must be notified 
in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and has the 
right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to speak on his own behalf. 
Id. A public body may also enter executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).
2 The allegations raised by the complainant are based on notes taken by the Police Chief during both the October 24, 
2017, and January 8, 2018, meetings. The notes were provided to this office.
2

===PAGE 3===
Here, the Board convened in executive session under Purpose 2 on both October 24,
2017, and January 8, 2018. The Board contends that it discussed the Police Chiefs contract 
during those meetings. The complainant alleges that the Board improperly discussed his 
reputation, character and discipline without providing him with proper notice. Following our 
review, we find insufficient evidence to formally conclude that any improper discussions took 
place during the executive session meetings. The versions Of events provided by both the 
complainant and the Board are contradictory, and we cannot arrive at a formal finding of the 
actual discussions that occurred during either executive session meeting. Accordingly, we are 
constrained to find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-50.
However, we take seriously the allegations raised by the complaint, and take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that before entering executive session, it must first convene in 
open session and have the chair state “all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose” of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); see also District Attorney for N. 
Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). These 
procedural requirements are intended to protect the public’s right to know when a body is 
discussing matters behind closed doors, and the reasons its members believe a private discussion 
is warranted. See OML 2013-9. Failure to follow required procedures casts doubt on the 
validity of any action taken during an executive session. See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. If 
the Board convenes in executive session under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual must also be afforded the right to be present during 
deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to 
have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to have an independent record of 
that meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id.
Although a public body generally may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the 
topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we remind the Board 
that executive sessions must remain focused on only those matters for which the executive 
session was lawfully called. Here, the Board convened in executive session under Purpose 2 to 
discuss the Police Chiefs contract, and therefore any discussions should have remained focused 
on that topic.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
3

===PAGE 4===
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ernest Horn, Esq.
Milford Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
