===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2016 
OML 2016-13 
Kendrys Vasquez, President 
Lawrence City Council 
City Hall, Room 106 
200 Common Street 
Lawrence, MA 01840 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear President Vasquez: 
This office received a complaint from Kathleen Runge, dated November 24, 2015, 
alleging that the Lawrence City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on October 7, 2015, and the 
Council responded by letter dated December 1, 2015. In her complaint, Ms. Runge alleges that 
the Council failed to list an anticipated discussion topic on a meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. Furthermore, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by not 
responding to this Open Meeting Law complaint within the time frame required by law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Council's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Council meeting that took place on September 15, 2015. Finally, we spoke with former Council 
President Modesto Maldonado by telephone on January 15, 2016. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 14, 2015, the Attorney General's Office issued a 
determination finding that the Council had violated the Open Meeting Law. On September 11, 
2015, the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 15, 2015.1 This meeting 
notice listed many topics for discussion, but it did not mention the August 14, 2015 letter from 
this office. President Maldonado anticipated speaking to the Council about the letter at the time 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 We remind the council that, "[t]he date and time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon 
on therewith." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
===PAGE 2===
the notice was posted. The Council held the September 15, 2015 meeting as planned. The 
minutes state that, at the end of the meeting, "Council President Maldonado discussed a matter 
regarding the opinion of the Attorney General that the City Council did not provide sufficient 
information to go into Executive Session. The Attorney General has issued a warning." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Here, President Maldonado anticipated informing the Council of the August 2015 Open 
Meeting Law determination at the time that letter was received. The discussion of the 
determination, therefore, should have been included on the agenda. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Its 
omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-12. President Maldonado stated to 
our office that he did not believe that this discussion item needed to be listed on the meeting 
notice, since his purpose was merely to update the other Council members on the outcome of the 
Attorney General's investigation, rather than to discuss the matter substantively. An anticipated 
report to the public body is a topic that "will be discussed" at a meeting, particularly where, as 
here, it concerns atopic that is likely to invoke questions or comments, either by Council 
members or members of the public. As such, reports such as this must be included on the 
meeting notices where anticipated. G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We find that 
the omission here was not an intentional violation, however, but rather reflected a 
misunderstanding of what the law requires. 
As a final matter, we note that the Council did not respond to Ms. Runge's Open Meeting 
Law complaint within the time frame required by law. The Open Meeting Law requires that, 
within fourteen business days after receiving a complaint, the public body shall review the 
complaint's allegations, take remedial action if appropriate, and send the Attorney General a 
copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). Here, the complaint was filed with the Council on October 7, 2015. The 
Council did not respond until nearly two months had passed, when it was contacted by our office 
following our receipt of a request for further review of this matter. This failure, too, violated the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-54. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Council's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
2 As president, President Maldonado was the chair of the Council and responsible for creation of the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kathleen Runge 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 