===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Joseph I. Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
December 19, 2016 
OML 2016-176 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received a complaint from CJ Ferry, dated March 30, alleging that the Fall 
River City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Lhe 
complaint was originally filed with the Council on February 15, and the Council responded by 
letter dated July 13. In his complaint, Mr. Ferry alleges that a quorum of the Council deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. Finally, we spoke with the five Councilors referenced in the 
complaint by telephone.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Fhe Council is a nine-member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. On February 9, following a Council meeting, five Councilors— 
Stephen Long, Raymond Mitchell, Linda Pereira, Richard Cabeceiras, and Shawn Cadime— 
went to a nearby Applebee's restaurant. Lhe five Councilors sat together and discussed social 
matters; the conversation did not involve Council business. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The interviews took place as follows: Stephen Long on September 1; Raymond Mitchell on September 7; Linda 
Pereira on December 2; Richard Cabeceiras on December 5; and Shawn Cadime on December 13. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that deliberations occur during a noticed meeting. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§18, 20. The law defines a "deliberation," in relevant part, as an "oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A quorum is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id 
Here, the complaint alleges that the five Councilors violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting during the meal at Applebee's. Following our review, 
we find no evidence that any improper deliberation took place. All five Counselors stated to us 
that the conversation did not involve topics within the Council's jurisdiction. Absent evidence to 
the contrary, we credit the Counselors' account of the facts. See OML 2013-133.3 Accordingly, 
we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Council did not respond to the present 
complaint until contacted multiple times by our office. Unless an extension of time has been 
requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney 
General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). 
We take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: CJ Ferry 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 