===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 72 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Erin Gibbons 
Chair, Wayland School Committee 
Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Gibbons: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on December 7, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 23, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 9. The complaint alleges that 
the notice for the Committee’s October 4 meeting included an insufficiently specific topic. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including an insufficiently specific topic on the original notice for its October 4 meeting. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
response, the request for further review, the original and amended notices for the October 4 
meeting, and a video recording of the October 4 meeting.
2  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On October 2, the Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on October 4. The notice included the topic “5. Policy Matters.” On October 
3, the Committee posted an amended notice for the October 4 meeting. Relevant here, the 
amended notice added to the “Policy Matters” topic the following: “5.1 Discuss Items for 
Review by Subcommittee.” 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of the Committee’s meetings can be found at https://www.waycam.tv/government -on-demand. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The Committee held its October 4 meeting as scheduled. During the meeting, the Chair 3 
explained that she had added the policy matters topic so that the Committee could follow up on 
an earlier discussion it had regarding matters the Committee wanted its Policy Subcommittee 
(the “Subcommittee”) to take under consideration. During the policy matters topic, the 
Committee discussed several matters it wanted the Subcommittee to take under consideration, 
including two matters that the Chair had come prepared to discuss.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting” and that the notice include “the date, time and place of the 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71.
4 When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the 
public aware of the discussion topics. A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 
hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated topic. See OML 2019-131. All anticipated topics 
must be posted with sufficient specificity on the notice at least 48 hours before the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2021-80. 
 
We find that the Committee included an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its 
October 4 meeting, but not for the reason alleged in the complaint. The complaint alleges that the 
notice topic “5. Policy Matters 5.1 Discuss Items for Review by Subcommittee” was insufficient 
because it did not identify the specific policy matters that the Chair anticipated suggesting the 
Subcommittee take under consideration. We find that the topic included on the original notice, 
“Policy Matters,” without any additional information was insufficiently specific to inform the 
public of the anticipated nature of the discussion. Because the original notice included an 
insufficiently specific topic and the amended notice was posted less than 48 hours prior to the 
meeting, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by including an 
insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its October 4 meeting.
5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by including an insufficiently specific topic on the original notice for its October 4 meeting. 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 Although we find that the notice posted 48 hours in advance of the meeting was insufficiently specific, we note 
that the amended topic—had it been included in time—appears adequate where the Chair anticipated a general 
discussion of matters to be referred to the Subcommittee. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland School Committee (via email:  school_committee@waylandps.org)  
Trudy Reid, Town Clerk (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
George Harris (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
