===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 11, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 139 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio, Jr. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12
th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on April 15, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 21, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 11. The complaint alleges that the 
Board convened in executive session without a lawful purpose on January 15. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review of the complaint, the notice and minutes for the January 
15 meeting, and spoke to the Board’s attorney.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
January 15. The notice included one substantive topic for discussion: 
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
6. EXECUTIVE SESSION: 
A. Per Open Meeting Law. M.G.L. c. 30A, section 21, reason number six, “to 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair 
declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body” 
  i. Release of Lien on Property at 110 Columbia Street, Adams Ma 
 
The Board convened the meeting as scheduled, and the Chair announced the purpose for 
the executive session as listed on the meeting notice and also declared that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the Board’s negotiating position. During the executive session, the 
Board discussed the “release of lien on property at 110 Columbia Street, Adams Ma.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be open to the public, except when convening in executive session for any of the ten 
enumerated purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, §21(a). Prior to convening in executive session, “the 
chair shall state the purpose for the executive session stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the Northern District v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary… because that is the only notification given the public that [a public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”); See OML 2024-142
3;  OML 2011-30. The same level of detail 
regarding the executive session topic must also be included on the meeting notice. See OML 
2023-207; OML 2019-85; OML 2017-43. 
 
One permissible purpose
  for convening in executive session is Purpose 6, “[t]o consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§21(a)(6). We have explained that a public body may discuss the discharge of a lien in executive 
session under Purpose 6, as a lien is an interest in real property and a public discussion of the 
value of the property and potential terms of a lien release could adversely impact the public 
body’s negotiating position regarding the lien release. See OML 2014-136; OML 2012-114.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed 
the release of a United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) 
Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”) forgivable Deferred Payment Loan (“DPL”) 
lien in executive session on January 15, 2025. We disagree. In a recent determination on a 
complaint filed by the same complainant against the same Board, OML 2024-142, we concluded 
that the Board’s discussion of release of a different lien of the same type was appropriate for 
executive session.  The complainant now asserts that the unique nature of a CDBG DPL lien, 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
unlike other liens, makes it inappropriate for discussion in executive session. We again conclude 
that the Board appropriately discussed the lien release in executive session on January 15, and 
we take this opportunity to elaborate on our reasoning.  
 
The complainant asserts that discussion of a CDBG DPL lien in executive session is 
improper because the Board does not have a negotiating position to protect with regard to the 
release of such liens. The complainant explains that DPL liens are a specific type of forgivable 
loan granted for property rehabilitation and include recapture agreements which specify when a 
lien shall be released and the amount owed if released early, all of which is public record. The 
complainant asserts that, unlike other types of liens, release of CDBG DPL liens is governed 
entirely by the terms of publicly recorded agreements and federal policy, such that no 
confidential negotiation or property valuation occurred or could occur within the bounds of the 
program.  
 
After review, we are satisfied that the Board permissibly discussed release of the CDBG 
DPL lien in executive session under Purpose 6. First, although the CDBG DPL funds initially 
came from the federal government, the town has full authority and control over reviewing 
applications and allocating funds to property owners; the town becomes the lienholder. 
Furthermore, contrary to the complainant’s assertion that release of the lien is functionally an 
objective, ministerial act, we understand that there are factors the Board must consider that 
include a consideration of the value of the property on which the town holds the lien and the 
possible negotiation of repayment terms. The type of loan at issue was made to property owners 
to improve building and storefront façades. Terms of the loan, as recorded in public documents, 
specify that the property owner must use the funds for the intended purpose and maintain the 
façade improvements in good condition, without alteration other than for maintenance. If the 
façade improvements are adequately maintained for a specified number of years and other terms 
are satisfied, the lien is released and the loan balance is forgiven. If the Board determines that the 
façade improvements were not adequately maintained then it can require repayment, which 
would necessitate a consideration of the current value of the improvements compared to the 
value without loan-funded improvements. Therefore, the Board has responsibility for evaluating 
whether the terms of the loan have been satisfied, in particular with regard to whether the 
property owner maintained the value of the improvements that were funded by the loan, and if 
not, to consider and negotiate the amount of any repayment based on an assessment of value. For 
these reasons, we are satisfied that the Board permissibly convened in executive session on 
January 15 to consider the value of real property where the Board held a negotiating position.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it discussed release of a HUD Community Development Block Grant forgivable DPL 
in executive session under Purpose 6.  
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Natalie Reyes, Paralegal 
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Duval, Chair, Adams Board of Selectmen (via email: jduval@town.adams.ma.us)  
Bri Hantman, Executive Assistant to Adams Town Administrator (via email: 
bhantman@town.adams.ma.us) 
Adams Town Clerk (via email: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
Catherine Foster (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The  
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
