===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 4, 2020
OML 2020-13
Elizabeth Lydon 
Associate City Solicitor 
Office of the City Solicitor 
133 William Street 
Room 205
New Bedford, MA 02740
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Lydon:
This office received a complaint from Dorvalino DeMedeiros on September 25,1 alleging 
that the New Bedford Board of Park Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
August 2. After being granted an extension of time by our office, you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated September 19. The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of 
a properly posted meeting and that this violation was intentional.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting on February 23. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, a news article published on the WBSM radio station website 
related to a radio interview referenced in the complaint2, the Board’s response, and the agenda 
for the Board’s February 23 retreat. We also communicated with counsel for the Board3 by 
email.
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 The news article may be found at https://wbsm.com/board-chair-talks-process-of-instaHing-inflatable-water-park/.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The official notice posting location for the City of New 
Bedford is the City’s municipal website, http://www.newbedford-ma.gov/. The Board is a five- 
member public body; thus, three members constitute a quorum. On February 23, four4 Board 
members — Peter Boswell, Diane Berube, Elaine Safioleas, and Paula Robinson Deare — 
attended a retreat convened by the Board at the Whaling City Golf Course in New Bedford. No 
notice was posted for the retreat and no minutes were taken. The agenda for the retreat shows 
that the Board anticipated discussing the following topics:
1. Director’s Report
3. Update on MyRec
4. Tour of City Parks for Board
a. Bizzaro Transportation $300
b. Tremblay Transportation $155
c. Choice of dates 3/1,3/22/,3/29,4/5, 5/12
5. Summer Program Update
6. Hosting MRPA Staff meeting 2/28/19 @ FTCC. Are we still looking to host a
Boards Forum?
7. Rules and Regulations for City Parks and Playgrounds and enforcement
responsibilities
8. Possible Restructure of Field Permit Program
9. License Agreements on Diamonds
In addition to these topics, the Board also discussed the potential for a water park in New 
Bedford, but took no action regarding this topic. The Complainant learned of the retreat through 
a July 15 radio interview with the Chair of the Board and an article published in the Standard- 
Times.
DISCUSSION
L The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating Outside of a Properly
Noticed Meeting on February 23.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)- 
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law specifically carves out 
certain exceptions to the definition of “meeting,” including the “attendance by a quorum of a 
public body at a public or private gathering, including a conference or training program or a 
media, social or other event, so long as the members do not deliberate.” Id The Law defines 
“deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id.
4 At the time of the retreat the Board had one vacant seat, thus the four members who attended the retreat comprised 
the entirety of the Board at that time.

===PAGE 3===
In its response, the Board acknowledges that a quorum attended a retreat on February 23 
and discussed “substantive items” including “the concept of a water park.” The Board notes that 
no votes were taken at the retreat and explains that it believed its retreat fell within the exception 
to the definition of meeting pertaining to public and private gatherings and therefore was not a 
meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law. This exception to the definition of meeting only 
applies “so long as the members do not deliberate.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. Deliberation is broadly 
defined to include any communication between or among a quorum regarding business within 
the Board’s jurisdiction, even if no opinion is expressed and no action is taken. See OML 2019- 
151.5 After review of the Board’s agenda for the retreat, we find that the topics listed clearly 
constitute business within the Board’s jurisdiction, and therefore any communication between or 
among a quorum of the Board on these topics, and on the topic of a potential water park, 
constituted deliberation that should have taken place only during a properly noticed meeting. The 
Open Meeting Law applies to any deliberation among a quorum of a public body, even if the 
public body has chosen to call its gathering a “retreat” or a “workshop” or something other than 
a “meeting.” See OML 2019-153; OML 2017-103. For these reasons, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting on 
February 23.
Though not raised in the complaint, we independently note that the Board also failed to 
create minutes for its February 23 retreat. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We 
recommend that the Board create meeting minutes for its February 23 retreat to the best of its 
ability, using any means available to it, including notes and the recollections of Board members.
2. We Do Not Find the Board’s Violation to Be Intentional.
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was intentional, as the 
Complainant alleges. An intentional violation is
an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation ... shall 
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law's requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law]. Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation.
940 CMR 29.02.
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website,
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting

===PAGE 4===
The Complainant alleges that the Board intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law 
because “the City is partnered with Altitudes H20 Water Park of TX.” This assertion relating to 
the City’s partnership with a corporate entity, even if true, does not demonstrate that the Board 
acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, the Board explains that it 
mistakenly believed its February retreat was exempt from the definition of meeting under the 
Open Meeting Law. We countenance the Board’s assertion and find that it did not act to 
intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated outside of a noticed meeting on February 23. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,'
ilizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: New Bedford Board of Park Commissioners
Dorvalino DeMedeiros
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
