===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 157 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Margaret O’Neal 
Executive Assistant, Worthington Selectboard 
selectboard@worthington-ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. O’Neal: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Brooks on June 21, 2022, alleging that the 
Worthington Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around April 28, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 6, 2022.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to timely approve minutes of a meeting held on November 9, 2021, and that the 
Board “conspired to fraudulently alter” an audio recording of the November 9 meeting to omit 
20 minutes of the recording. 
After review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely 
approve minutes of the November 9 meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the request for further 
review filed with our office.   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.”  However, the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11(2).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Here, the Board does not dispute that it did not create or approve minutes for the 
November 9 meeting.  Rather, the Board asserts that its recording secretary had been unable to 
attend the meeting, but when the Complainant inquired about the minutes the Board’s executive 
assistant provided the Complainant with her own notes of the meeting, which summarized the 
discussions that occurred and the actions taken during the meeting.  Moreover, the Board notes 
that the Complainant was present at the November 9 meeting. 
Although we credit the Board with promptly providing the Complainant with the 
executive assistant’s detailed notes of the meeting, and we find no evidence of an intention to 
conceal what occurred during the meeting from the Complainant or the public, the Open Meeting 
Law nonetheless requires that a public body create and approve meeting minutes.  The 
responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law's requirement that meeting minutes be 
created and approved in a timely manner rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, 
not with individual public employees, such as administrative staff.  See OML 2021-177; OML 
2018-105.1  If staff resources are not available to create minutes for a public body to approve, 
then public body members must take on this responsibility to ensure compliance with the Law.  
See OML 2021-177; OML 2018-111. By failing to do so, the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law.   
Finally, we decline to review the allegation that the Board altered an audio recording of 
the November 9 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies record 
their own meetings, and therefore does not address whether a public body may edit a video 
recording of a meeting.  See OML 2020-96; OML 2014-82; OML 2013-40.  Therefore, this 
allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we decline 
to review it.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create and approve minutes of its November 9, 2021, meeting.  We order the Board, 
within 30 days from the date of this letter, to create and approve minutes of the November 9, 
2021, meeting.  We also order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that a future similar violation may be considered evidence of an intent 
to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mark Brooks (via e -mail: ) 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, https://www mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 