===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 2, 2017 
OML 2017-70 
Sarah Smegal, Esq. 
Legal Division 
Department of Public Utilities 
One South Station 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Smegal: 
This office received a complaint from Don Warner Saklad on March 22, alleging that 
the Massachusetts Public Utilities Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25,1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about February 6, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by 
letter dated March 20.2 In his complaint, Mr. Saklad alleges that the Commission failed to 
make available information, notices, and minutes of Commission meetings in response to 
several requests submitted to the Commission in January.3 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 The complaint was filed by email and did not use the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law complaint form. 
Accordingly, understanding the email to be related to the complainant's public records requests, rather than an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission sent its response following an inquiry from our office. 
3 The Open Meeting Law governs requests for meeting minutes and documents used during a meeting, only. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Requests for other documents are governed by the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. 
Accordingly, we limit our review to the request for minutes, only. Any complaints involving requests for other 
records may be resolved by contacting the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's 
Office. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
In January, the complainant submitted several public records requests to the 
Commission seeking records relating to the most recent Commission meeting.4 In response, 
the Commission stated that there are no responsive records because a quorum of the 
Commission does not hold "meetings," as defined by the Open Meeting Law. In a prior 
determination, OML 2015-103, we resolved a similar issue involving the same parties.5 In 
that determination, our office determined that the three-member Commission meets 
exclusively for the purpose of rendering quasi-judicial decisions and therefore did not hold 
any public meetings within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law. 
A "meeting" subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law does not include "a 
meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of making a 
decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Commission maintains that it only meets for the purpose of rendering a decision following a 
quasi-judicial hearing before a single hearing officer. Accordingly, because the Commission 
has not held any meetings other than those in its quasi-judicial capacity, and because those 
meetings are exempt from the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, we find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide the complainant with 
meeting minutes. See G.L. c. BOA, § 18. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Don Warner Saklad 
Massachusetts Public Utilities Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 The complainant submitted requests on January 6; January 10; and January 15. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 