===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 22, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 37 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street 
Springfield MA 01103 
bcoyle@baconwilson.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coyle: 
This office received a complaint from Angelina Simone on November 3, 2022, alleging 
that the Southwick Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 4, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 23, 2022. The complaint alleges that 
the Board’s August 8, 20221 meeting notice was insufficiently specific, that the board did not 
discuss the individuals being considered for appointment to various committees, did not discuss 
their qualifications, and did not discuss or vote to appoint Jack Cote to the Economic 
Development Commission.
2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the meeting 
minutes and notice for August 8, and video recordings of the August 8 and October 3 meetings.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 
8 that included the following discussion topic: 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 We decline to review any additional allegations made in the request for further review. Our office does not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies and will address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with 
the public body in order to give public bodies an opportunity to address those allegations. See OML 2022-114; OML 
Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Review and make re-appointments or appointments to Boards & 
Committees, Department Heads or other Town Officers as shown on 
attached list to the Agenda: 
Conservation Commission: Maryssa Cook-Obregon, Kevin Solek, Andy Reardon 
Economic Development: Jack Cote 
Historical: Richard Marcil 
Lake Management: Deb Herath, Full member & Associates Rick Wylot & W.K. 
Phillips 
 
Attached to the notice was a two-page spreadsheet listing several individuals to be reappointed to 
their respective fifteen committees or departments and the terms of the appointments.  
 
The video recording of the August 8 meeting reveals that during the Board’s discussion 
regarding appointments to the Economic Development Commission, Chair Russell Fox read the 
following names from the spreadsheet attached to the meeting notice: Amber Bach, Serena 
Fuller, Michael McMahon, Craig Samuelsen, and Susan Zidek-Krusen. Chair Fox stopped short 
of saying Ms. Zidek-Krusen’s full name, when he noted that she had moved out of town. Chair 
Fox then requested a “motion on those four.” Selectman Moglin moved to nominate the 
remaining four individuals, which was seconded by Selectman Perron. Chair Fox and Selectman 
Moglin voted in favor of reappointing the individuals. At that point, there was some overlapping 
discussion when Chair Fox attempted to move on to the next topic, while Selectman Perron was 
voicing his vote in favor of the appointments, and Selectman Moglin also was attempting to 
speak. Chair Fox apologized to Selectman Perron, and Selectman Moglin stated that he wanted 
to clarify that members of the Commission may live out of town, just not out of state. The vote 
was unanimous for the reappointment of the four members and the meeting continued on to the 
next round of appointments. There was no discussion of Jack Cote’s appointment. 
 
The August 8 meeting minutes summarized the motions and roll call vote for appointees 
to the Conservation Commission, Economic Development Commission, Historical Commission, 
and Lake Management Commission. With respect to the Economic Development Commission 
(hereinafter, the “Commission”), the minutes indicate that a motion was made by Selectman 
Doug Moglin to nominate Jack Cote to serve on the Commission, that it was seconded by 
Selectman Jason Perron, and that the vote was unanimous to appoint Mr. Cote to the 
Commission. Information for all other committee or department appointments were located in a 
spreadsheet (identical to the one attached to the meeting notice) attached to the minutes, which 
included handwritten notations of the roll call votes concerning each committee or department. 
The spreadsheet showed that there were four additional individuals who were reappointed to the 
Commission.  
 
At its October 3 meeting, the Board attempted to correct the discrepancy between the 
August 8 meeting minutes and the actual meeting that transpired. Chair Fox stated that the audio 
recording from the previous meeting was “garbled, people were talking over one another, even 
though it was on the agenda, and I think the intent was clear, but just to make Town Council 
happy, I’m asking to reaffirm the vote of Jack Cote to the Economic Development Commission 
of August 8, 2022.” Selectmen Moglin and Perron moved to nominate Mr. Cote and the vote to 
appoint him was unanimous. Chief Administrative Officer Karl Stinehart stated that the meeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes from August 8 should be amended because of the inaccurate summary of Mr. Cote’s 
appointment; the Board voted to table that issue. As of the date of this letter, the August 8 
meeting minutes have not been amended. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law states in relevant part that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, ... a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list anticipated topics on a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70.
 3  
 
When a public body anticipates making appointments at a meeting, the meeting notice 
should include specific details about what appointments will be made and the names of 
anticipated appointees. See OML 2019-128; OML 2017-177; OML 2017-148; OML 2016-167. 
The Complainant alleges that the Board failed to do so, where it attached a spreadsheet of 
appointees to its August 8 notice and that spreadsheet did not include Andy Reardon, Richard 
Marcil, and Jack Cote as candidates. However, while their names were not included in the 
spreadsheet, these individuals were listed on the first page of the meeting notice, under the 
appointment discussion topic and next to the respective committees for which they were  
considered for appointment. It appears that the Board listed Mr. Reardon, Mr. Marcil, and Mr. 
Cote on the first page on the meeting notice rather than on the attachment to highlight that these 
individuals were new candidates for appointments and the two-page spreadsheet attachment 
consisted of individuals who were being considered for re-appointment. Although in the future 
we recommend that the Board either list all candidates in one place or clarify why they are 
separated, we nonetheless find that the August 8 meeting notice was sufficient where it listed all 
of the candidates for appointment and their respective committees.  
 
Finally, we decline to review the allegations that the Board did not discuss the individuals 
being considered for appointment, did not discuss their qualifications, and in particular did not 
discuss or vote to appoint Jack Cote to the Economic Development Commission. The Division of 
Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss any particular matter nor that it discuss 
a matter in any particular depth. Rather, the Law requires that if a quorum of a public body 
discusses a matter within its jurisdiction it must do so only during a meeting for which notice 
was posted and that is open to the public, unless a permissible reason exists to discuss the topic 
in executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Therefore, allegations that the Board failed to 
engage in a thorough discussion of the candidates, or any discussion, even if true, would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, and we decline to review such allegations. We 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s we bsite: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
take no position as to the validity of the Board’s appointments of particular individuals if no 
discussion or vote occurred, as the complaint alleges.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Angelina Simone (via e- mail: ) 
Southwick Select Board, c/o Karl Stinehart, Chief Administrative Officer, Town of 
Southwick (via e-mail:
 kstinehart@southwickma.net) 
Michelle Hill, Town Clerk/Collector/Treasurer/ (via e-mail: 
Clerkteasurer@southwickma.net) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
