===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 4, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 174 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lisa Maki, Esq. 
Legal Advisor 
Boston Public Schools 
lmaki@bostonpublicschools.org 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Maki: 
 
This office received a complaint on March 21, 2023, from Attorney Emma Diamond 
Hall, filed on behalf of her client Naomi Martin of the Boston Globe. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Boston Public Schools (“BPS”) on December 21, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of BPS by letter dated January 6, 2023. The complaint alleges that a 
subcommittee related to the Green New Deal for Boston Public Schools violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, when Ms. Martin was denied access to a workshop held on 
December 6, 2022.
1,2 
 
Following our review, we find that the group the complaint refers to as the Green New 
Deal Subcommittee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, BPS’s response to the complaint, the request for further review, and a copy of the 
invitation referenced in the complaint. We also communicated by phone with Attorney Maki.
3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint additionally alleges that being removed from the December 6 workshop violated Ms. Martin’s First 
Amendment and Equal Protection rights. The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we do not review, and we offer no opinion regarding, 
whether Ms. Martin’s First Amendment or Equal Protection rights were violated. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The law defines “public body” as “a multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law 
defines “subcommittee” as including “any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.” Id.  
 
The Green New Deal for Boston Public Schools is an initiative launched by Boston 
Mayor Michelle Wu to invest in the City’s school facilities.
4 As part of this initiative, the 
Superintendent and the Mayor directed a team of employees, primarily consisting of employees 
from the BPS facilities department, to gather information about the state of BPS facilities, 
engage with the community, and make recommendations to the Superintendent and Mayor 
regarding which facilities require renovation and updating and how to prioritize such work.  
 
We have consistently found that groups of employees who work together to carry out 
their job duties, which groups lack a fixed membership and are not empowered to take collective 
action, are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-56 (explaining 
that city planning department staff who worked together to review wetlands ordinances and 
propose amendments for consideration by the city council did not constitute a public body); 
OML 2021-150 (explaining that a group of federal, state, and local employees who coordinated 
on a project was not a public body where the group lacked a defined membership and set quorum 
and was not empowered to act collectively); OML 2015-41 (“Though several individuals work 
for the Agency, it is not a multiple member body empowered to act collectively because it does 
not have a fixed membership requiring a vote by a quorum of members in order to make 
decisions and conduct business.”).
5 Similarly, we have explained that government agencies and 
municipal departments and their employees are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries); OML 
Declination 4-13-20 (Town of Plymouth); OML Declination 3-26-21 (City of Boston). Here, too, 
we conclude that the group of employees working to further the Green New Deal for Boston 
Public Schools is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
6   
 
 
 
4 See Mayor Wu Launches Green New Deal for Boston Public Schools, bostonpublicschools.org, 
https://www.bostonpublicschools.org/site/Default.aspx?PageType=3&DomainID=4&PageID=1&ViewID=6446ee8
8-d30c-497e-9316-3f8874b3e108&FlexDataID=37649 (last visited Sep. 15, 2023); Christopher Huffaker, Key 
Things to Know About the Green New Deal for Boston Public Schools, bostonglobe.com (January 2, 2023, 8:08 
p.m.), https://www.bostonglobe.com/2023/01/02/metro/so-what-actually-is-green-new-deal-boston-public-schools-
anyway. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Where we find that the group of employees working to further the Green New Deal for Boston Public Schools is 
not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law for the reasons stated, we need not address whether the group 
falls within the exception set forth in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  In 
Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official, who is not himself subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, creates a group to “assist him in carrying out his responsibility,” that group is not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.  Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the School 
District or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Emma Diamond Hall, Esq., Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP (via email: 
emma.hall@morganlewis.com) 
 Boston City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@boston.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
