===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
April 17,2014 
OML 2014-40 
Amrith Kumar 
 
 
RE: Request for Reconsideration Concerning OML Declination 3-3-2014 
Dear Mr. Kumar: 
Our office received your March 16, 2014 email in which you request 
reconsideration, in part, of our March 3, 2014 letter declining to review your Open 
Meeting Law complaint. The complaint was originally filed with the Sterling Board of 
Selectmen (the Board) on January 10, 2014, and you filed a request for further review 
with our office on February 3, 2014. In your email, you request that the Division of Open 
Government (the Division) reconsider its decision to decline to review the entirety of this 
complaint, arguing that an allegation regarding the Board's meeting minutes was not 
discoverable until December 18, 2013. 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney 
General of an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division 
generally will not reconsider past determinations and declinations, we may grant 
reconsideration where the request identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the 
determination or a significant legal or factual issue that the Division may have 
overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint. Because you allege that the 
Division failed to consider a timely claim, we grant your request for reconsideration. 
In a memorandum attached to your January 10, 2014 complaint filed with the 
Board, you identified five alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law, all of which 
concerned the Board's use of remote participation during its December 4, 2013 meeting. 
Alleged violation number three is titled, "No recorded reason for the remote 
participation," and states "[a] further review of the minutes of the meeting indicate that 
no mention is made of why it is that Chairman Furmaniuk participated remotely." The 
Division interpreted this allegation as a purported failure by the Board to state a purpose 
for the Chair's remote participation, which was discoverable at the time the meeting 
occurred. You have since clarified that your allegation was the Board failed to record in 
o 

===PAGE 2===
the meeting minutes the reason for the Chair's remote participation. Because this 
omission was not discoverable until the final minutes were approved on December 18, 
2013, we find that this allegation was timely filed with the Board in your January 10, 
2014 complaint. 
If remote participation is utilized by a member of a public body during a meeting, 
the name of any member who participated remotely and the reason under 940 CMR 
29.10(5) for his or her remote participation must be recorded in the meeting minutes. 940 
CMR 29.10(7)(b). The minutes of the Board's December 4, 2013 meeting state only that, 
"Chairman Furmaniuk participated remotely." Clearly, therefore, the Board failed to 
include the information required by law. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please feel free to contact this office at (617) 
963-2540 with any further questions. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Sterling Board of Selectmen 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq., Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
2 