===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 2, 2019 
OML 2019-25
Arthur Frank, Esq.
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Frank:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 17, alleging that the 
Swansea Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25.1 The complaint was originally with the Board on or about June 18, and you responded to 
the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated July 16. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Board failed to approve certain meeting minutes in a timely manner.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board’s June 18 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. During its June 18 meeting, the Board approved the 
minutes from its meetings held on March 19; April 18; April 23; May 7; and May 23. 
Between its March 19 and June 18 meetings, the Board held meetings on April 2; April 18; 
April 23; May 7; May 23; and June 7.
o
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.2
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve its March 19 and April 
18 meeting minutes. The Board responds that, due to a lack of quorum of Board members 
who were in attendance during prior meetings for which minutes were being approved, the 
Board was unable to approve them sooner. We acknowledge the Board’s attempts to approve 
the minutes at each subsequent meeting, deciding each time to postpone a vote until the next 
meeting. However, the Board was required to approve its March 19 and April 18 meeting 
minutes within the next three meetings, or by April 23 and May 23, respectively, as that was 
the later of the two time periods. See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-111. We note that the 
Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving minutes. Public bodies may 
choose the method for approving their minutes, including approval by the public body chair 
alone, by majority vote of the public body, or by consent of the body (approved unless there is 
an objection). When a quorum of a public body approves minutes, however, it must do so 
during a noticed meeting.3 Because the Board waited to review and approve the March 19 
and April 18 meeting minutes until its June 18 meeting, it did not approve them in a timely 
manner. Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
We must determine whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, intentional. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. In a prior determination, OML 2013-121, we concluded that the Board had 
failed to timely approve its meeting minutes and ordered its immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law. However, that determination concerned compliance under the 
standard for approving minutes prior to the promulgation of the revised Open Meeting Law 
regulations, which went into effect on October 17, 2017. The revised regulations defined 
“timely manner” for the first time. Because the Board was advised of its obligations under the
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 See our FAQ on Meeting Minutes at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the- 
open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-
2

===PAGE 3===
old standard, rather than under the more specific current standard, we decline to find that this 
violation was intentional.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to approve its March 19 and April 18 meeting minutes in a timely manner. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Swansea Planning Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
