===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 45 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Thomas Mullen, Esq.  
Thomas A. Mullen, P.C. 
40 Salem Street, Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
This office received a complaint from Cecil Ogren on October 29, 2021, alleging that the 
Lynnfield School Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. In 
addition, we received a complaint from Michele Cole on November 12, 2021, alleging that the 
Lynnfield School Committee (the “Committee”), Select Board and Board of Health (the 
“Boards”) violated the Open Meeting Law. Mr. Ogren’s originally filed his complaint with the 
Committee on September 3, and the Committee responded by letter dated September 20.1 Ms. 
Cole originally filed her complaint with the Committee and the Boards on October 15 and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee and the Boards by letter dated November 12.  
In his complaint, Mr. Ogren’s alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently specific 
meeting notice, amended its meeting notice to add a topic, discussed a topic that was not listed 
on a meeting notice, and deliberated outside of a meeting.2  In her complaint, Ms. Cole alleges 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint alleges that the Committee did not allow public participation at an August 31 meeting and that the 
Committee’s has a policy whereby the Committee does not necessarily accept public comment at every meeting. We 
note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation during its meetings. 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law permits the chair of a public body to decide whether to allow for public 
participation, and if so, to set limitations on participation. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23. We 
do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances permit. 
See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129. As public participation is discretionary, these allegations would not constitute 
violations of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 
(Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). The complaint also alleges that the Committee should not 
have delegated its authority to the School Superintendent to establish COVID-19 protocols, such as mask rules. We 
note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§  18-25. Accordingly, we 
decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that the Committee and the Boards deliberated outside of a posted meeting prior to an August 18 
meeting.3  
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice and discussing an anticipated topic which was 
not included on the meeting notice. We find no violation by the Board of Health or Select Board. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s and 
Boards’ responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ requests for further review. We also 
reviewed the notice for the Committee’s August 31 meeting and the notice for the joint meeting 
of the Committee and Boards that took place on August 18. Finally, we received from Town 
Counsel, and reviewed, the School Department and Town’s responses to public records requests 
for emails regarding the mask mandate, including an appeal to the Supervisor of Public Records.4   
DISCUSSION 
1. The notice for the Committee’s August 31 meeting was insufficiently specific and the 
Committee discussed an anticipated topic which was not listed on the meeting notice.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2021-126.5  
 A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to add a 
previously unanticipated topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29. Likewise, a public 
body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even without having included it on a 
meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a 
matter of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest to the 
public in order to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting if the topic 
can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. 
 Ms. Cole alleges that the notice for the Committee and Boards’ joint August 18 meeting 
should not have been amended on August 16 at 3:51 p.m. to add a new topic, “4. Public 
 
3 The complaint also alleges that the Lynnfield Superintendent misstated her authority regarding the decision to 
mandate masks in Lynnfield Schools and that the Committee failed to timely respond to a request for emails made 
under the Public Records Law. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 
4 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
comment.” As the August 18 joint meeting was scheduled for 6:00 p.m. – more than 48 hours 
after the notice was amended – the Committee and Boards were free to amend the notice to add 
any topics they wished, regardless of whether the topics had previously been anticipated. See 
OML 2021-55 (finding no violation where a public body added topics to a meeting notice more 
than 48 hours before the meeting took place). Moreover, we note that the Open Meeting Law 
requires that a meeting notice include the list of topics that are anticipated for discussion by the 
chair; a public comment period is not itself a topic for discussion that needs to be listed on the 
meeting notice in any event.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 Mr. Ogren also alleges that notice for the Committee’s August 31 meeting was 
insufficiently specific. The notice contained the items “Sign Operating Protocols,” “Policy 
Changes,” “Vote: Protocols,” “Vote: Policies.”6 Although the Open Meeting Law does not 
require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion, it requires public bodies 
to identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-
156; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. Generic items will typically 
fail to meet the specificity standards of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-126. 
 Where, as here, the chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating the 
meeting notice, we look to what that person anticipated will be discussed 48 hours before the 
meeting. See OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190. The Lynnfield School Superintendent (the 
“Superintendent”), who prepared the notice for the August 31 meeting on behalf of the 
Committee, was certainly aware that the “operating protocols” the Committee planned to discuss 
concerned the relationship between the Committee and the Superintendent, as the Committee 
approves similar protocols annually at the first meeting of the school year. In addition, the 
Superintendent was also reasonably aware that the “policy changes” item related to COIVD-19 
precautions for the upcoming school year. We find that the Committee’s August 31 meeting 
notice did not sufficiently advise members of the public that the Committee would be discussing 
these two topics. See OML 2019-89 (meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of the 
public that the Board would be discussing a marijuana establishment—a topic that no doubt was 
the subject of immense public interest—where meeting notice merely contained legal terms not 
generally understood by the public); OML 2019-157 (meeting notice was insufficiently specific 
where it listed a hearing on “Zoning By-laws” without identifying the particular by-law that was 
anticipated for discussion). We therefore find that the Committee violated the Law by posting an 
insufficiently specific meeting notice for the August 31 meeting. 
 Finally, Mr. Ogren alleges, and the Committee concedes, that the Committee discussed a 
topic at its August 31 meeting which was not listed on the meeting notice, the approval of 
meeting minutes from the prior meeting on August 18. As the Committee does not argue that this 
 
6 Although not addressed in either of the complaints, we take this opportunity to offer guidance to the Committee  on 
the use of “Superintendent’s Update,” such as the item used in the Committee’s notice for the August 31 meeting. In 
prior determinations, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or presentation from a person who is not 
a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from 
Department Heads,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the 
public body chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations that took place. See OML 2018-33; OML 
2017-90. Nonetheless, we have encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from public officials more 
detail regarding the topics to be discussed at the public body's meeting u nder a “report” item and include on the 
meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed. See OML 2020-44. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
was an unanticipated topic, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
response to the complaint, the Committee voted to re-approve the meeting minutes of the August 
18 meeting at a September 28 meeting.  
2. We find no evidence of deliberation outside of a posted meeting.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body. Id.  
 Ms. Cole alleges that the Superintendent stated in an August 13 email that she was 
coordinating COVID-19 precautions for the upcoming school year with the Boards. Counsel 
explains that this email was a misstatement. Rather, the Superintendent coordinated with the 
Town of Lynnfield’s Emergency Management Team (“EMT”). The Emergency Management 
Team met during the COVID-19 pandemic to coordinate the Town’s response and consisted of 
staff member from many town departments, including police, fire, public works, the 
Superintendent and Town Administrator. Based on our review of hundreds of pages of emails, 
we are satisfied that the Board of Health was invited to send one member to join EMT meetings 
on a rotating basis. As only one member of the Board of Health attended each of these meetings, 
we find no deliberation because there was no communication “between or among a quorum” of 
the Board of Health. See OML 2019-148 (where only one member of the public body attended 
the meeting at issue, there was no quorum of any public body present and the meeting was not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law). In addition, we find no evidence that a quorum of members 
of any other public bodies attend the EMT meetings. Accordingly, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
 On August 18, the Committee and Boards held a joint meeting during which all three 
bodies voted to adopt a mask mandate in all municipal buildings, including schools. Ms. Cole 
alleges that the three public bodies deliberated outside of a meeting regarding the mask mandate 
based on the fact that the chairs of all three public bodies read identical motions during the 
August 18 meeting. Counsel explains in response that he wrote the three motions that were given 
to the chairs of the Committee and the Boards.7 In addition, Counsel explains that the apparent 
lack of discussion by the three bodies regarding the mask mandate was proceeded by over an 
hour of public comment and members’ longstanding familiarity with the arguments surrounding 
 
7 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Town Counsel is not a member of any public body, and may distribute his own opinions, including 
draft motions, to a quorum of the Committee or Boards outside of a meeting, provided that such communication 
does not constitute serial deliberation between or among a quorum of public body members. See OML 2019-140. 
We find no evidence of serial deliberation in this instance.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
masks as this meeting took place a year and a half into the COVID-19 pandemic. Absent 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s explanation of the facts. See OML 2022-28; 
OML 2021-178. Based on our review of the video recording of the joint August 18 meeting and 
extensive email communications, we are satisfied with Counsel’s explanation and find no other 
indication that a quorum of the Committee or the Boards deliberated outside of a meeting prior to 
the August 18 meeting.  
 Finally, Mr. Ogren alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
regarding the annual approval of the Committee’s operating protocols which govern how the 
Committee will conduct business with the Superintendent. In the video recording of the 
Committee’s August 31 meeting, one member suggested deferring the vote to approve the 
operating protocols because another member is absent. The Chair responded that, “I spoke with 
her today. [The absent member] has read the meeting packet.” As the Committee is a five-
member public body, a quorum of the Committee is three members. Therefore, a discussion 
between the Chair and one other member would not constitute deliberation, regardless of the 
content of the conversation, because the conversation was not “between or among a quorum” of 
the Committee. See OML 2021-158; OML 2021-109. We therefore find no evidence of 
deliberation in this regard.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice for its August 31 meeting with regard to 
operating protocols and COVID-19 policies, and discussing the minutes of the prior meeting 
without including that topic on the meeting notice. We find no violation by the Board of Health 
or Select Board. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation 
in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Due to the 
rapidly changing COVID-19 policy landscape, particularly the Committee’s recent vote to lift 
the mask mandate in Lynnfield schools, we order no further relief.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee or Boards. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Cecil Ogren (via e-mail: ) 
 Michele Cole (via e-mail: ) 
 Lynnfield School Committee, Select Board and Board of Health c/o Lynnfield Town 
 Clerk (via e-mail: ) 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 