===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
May 8,2018 
OML 2018-66 
Michael Makara 
Vice Chair, Webster School Committee 
77 Poland Street 
Webster, MA 01570 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Makara: 
This office received a complaint from Linda Millet on March 7, alleging that the 
Webster School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 12, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, in a letter dated February 
28. In her complaint, Ms, Millet alleges that, during its February 3 meeting, the Committee 
discussed topics that were not listed on the notice and, at one point, did not permit her to 
address the Committee. Ms. Millet also alleges that, during this meeting, it was difficult to 
hear the Committee's deliberation. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the Committee's February 3 meeting and 
spoke by telephone with the complainant and Chair David Hurton on April 4 and April 19, 
respectively. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee's February 3 meeting was a three-hour 
budgetary workshop for both the Committee and the school administrators to discuss the 
Fiscal Year 2019 budget based on the district's needs and programming.2 The sole topic on 
the meeting notice was, "FY 19 Budget Workshop: Discuss budget with District Leadership 
Team." Chair Hurton anticipated that the school administration officials would present their 
1 All dates refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We note that the minutes of this three-hour discussion are condensed to one and one-half pages. We remind the 
Committee that minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic that contains enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2017-53; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
proposed budget by explaining what they identified as the needs and successes of the district. 
Accordingly, the meeting began with an overview by the newly-appointed school 
superintendent to describe her vision for the district, including how the proposed budget 
would assist the district in improving programs and student achievement rates. 
Only two individuals, including the complainant, were sitting in the audience. 
Approximately 10 minutes after the meeting began, the complainant informed the Committee 
that she could not hear some of the discussion. Chair Hurton asked the Committee to raise 
their voices and invited the complainant to move closer to the Committee's table. The 
complainant was permitted to address the Committee on certain issues, but Chair Hurton 
asked her to stop at one point when he determined that her comments about health insurance 
fell outside of the Committee's budgetary discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee's February 3 Meeting Notice was Sufficiently Detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of a meeting that includes "the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Topics should be listed in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's 
discussion will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.3 
The complaint alleges that the Committee began its February 3 meeting with a 
discussion of topics that were not listed on the meeting notice, such as classroom rounds 
conducted by school administration officials and the implementation of certain programs. 
The Committee contends that this preliminary discussion with the administration was 
intended to identify the needs of the school and how the administration drafted the budget 
based on those needs. The discussion focused on how the budget would impact programming 
and services. It does not appear that Chair Hurton specifically anticipated any of the topics 
raised. Although more specific subtopics would have been useful to the public, we conclude 
that the Committee's overall discussion with the administration fell within the scope of the 
posted topic, "FY 19 Budget Workshop: Discuss budget with District Leadership Team" and 
met the minimum requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-13; 2014-125; 
2014-67. 
II. The Committee's February 3 Meeting was Accessible to the Public. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open and 
accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-49. Access must include the 
opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
members of the public body. See OML 2017-16; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 
2012-48. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's February 2 meeting was difficult to hear 
because it lacked microphones. As a workshop meeting, the Committee arranged the room in 
order to invite conversation around a table and did not use its usual microphones. About ten 
minutes into the meeting, the complainant spoke up about being unable to sufficiently hear the 
Committee. The Committee invited the complainant to join the members at the table and 
attempted to speak up. No one stated again that they could not hear the Committee during the 
meeting. Accordingly, we find that Committee took reasonable steps to correct the issue and 
that the audience could hear the Committee's deliberations during this meeting. See OML 
2016-54; OML 2014-3. 
III. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Restricting Public 
Participation During its Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "no person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a 
public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. See OML 
2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. Here, the complainant alleges that it was improper 
for Chair Hurton to restrict her comments about health insurance. It is within the Chair's 
discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, and thus he did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by doing so in this instance. See OML 2016-111; 2015-12; OML 2012-59. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Linda Millet 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 