===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 11, 2019 
OML 2019-9
Sean P. Nehill 
Senior Counsel
Boston Planning & Development Agency 
One City Hall Square 
Boston, MA 02201
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Nehill:
This office received a complaint from Colman Herman on November 19 alleging that the 
Boston Civic Design Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, by routinely failing to create minutes of meetings held by its Design Committee 
(“Committee”).1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on October 1, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated November 14, following an extension of 
time granted by our office.
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Commission’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the minutes of the four Committee 
meetings held in September. We also spoke with you by telephone on October 3 and October 5. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see OML 2018-48.2
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.

===PAGE 2===
The Commission is an eleven-member public body; the Committee is a subcommittee of 
the Commission. Generally, the Committee meets once a month to further review projects 
presented during Commission meetings. While the Committee does not have a specifically 
defined number of members, it always includes less than a quorum of Commission members.
The complaint alleges that the Commission failed to create minutes for its Committee 
meetings. As a threshold matter, we do not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations. See OML 2017-134; OML 2012-106. We limit our review to the month 
of September as that is the date of alleged violation set forth on the first page of the complaint. 
The Commission admits that minutes of Committee meetings were not regularly created and 
maintained. As such, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
create minutes of its Committee meetings. However, it took appropriate remedial action in 
response to this complaint by promptly creating and approving minutes for Committee meetings 
held in September and October. See OML 2013-180. We commend the Commission for taking 
corrective action to ensure future compliance with the law. We encourage the Commission to 
create minutes of any previous Committee meetings held prior to September to the best of its 
ability, through whatever means are available, including the memories and individual notations 
of the attendees.
In his request for further review, the complainant also alleges that the Committee failed 
to post notice of its meetings and that its minutes are insufficiently detailed.3 We generally 
decline to review an allegation that was not included in the original complaint to the Commission 
because the Commission has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(3). We find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint 
and thus we do not review its merits. Nevertheless, we note that that the Commission posts 
notices of Committee meetings on its website in compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement that a public body post notice of its meetings. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b) (“a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” which contains “the date, time and place of such meeting 
and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting”).
We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to create and maintain minutes of its Committee meetings. We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does
3 The complainant further alleges that the minutes were approved by the Commission, rather than the Committee.
We note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving meeting minutes. Public bodies may 
choose the method for approval. When a quorum of a public body approves minutes, however, it must do so during 
a noticed meeting. See FAQ on Meeting Minutes, at https:/Avww.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions- 
about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-meeting-minutes-.
2
1 1 ill "tin

===PAGE 3===
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Commission. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
ft
KerryArme Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Colman Herman
Boston Civic Design Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
'll III 1 Iff V
