===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 11, 2016 
OML 2016-140 
Mark Rumley 
City Solicitor 
City of Medford 
85 George P. Hassett Drive 
Medford, MA 02155 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Rumley: 
This office received a complaint from Cheryl Rodriguez on June 29, alleging that the 
Medford Zoning Board of Appeals (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 6, which was 
subsequently amended on June 13, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated 
June 16. The complaint alleges that immediately following its May 31 meeting, the Board 
met in private to deliberate and approve a development project. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
manner alleged. We also find that the Board violated the law by failing to create and approve 
minutes in a timely manner. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and draft minutes from the Board's May 31 
meeting. Finally, we reviewed an audio-recording of the Board's May 31 and June 14 
meetings, which the complainant provided to our office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Board held a meeting on May 31, in part, to hold a 
hearing on an application for zoning variances for a development project at 61 Locust Street, 
which is known as the former site of a Shaw's supermarket. The meeting notice, timely 
posted to the City website on May 13, listed this topic as follows: 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
61 Locust Street (Case #A-2016-18) Applicant and Owner, Equity One, Inc. is 
petitioning for a variance from Chapter 94 - City of Medford Zoning Ordinance to 
demolish 2 existing structures and construct 2 mixed-use buildings consisting of 490 
residential dwelling unites (sic) and 7,000 sq. ft. of commercial space with insufficient 
front, rear and side yard setbacks; landscaped area; lot and useable area; off-street 
parking; distance between structures. This plan also exceeds the maximum allowed 
height and lot coverage. This plan is also subject to Site Plan Review and Linkage 
Fees. 
During the hearing, various representatives for the applicant spoke about the proposed 
project and the Board heard from the public. At the close of the hearing, Board Chair 
Anthony Arena stated that the Board would take the matter under advisement and that the 
"thousand-page plus documentation.. .will be reviewed in great detail." Chair Arena then 
thanked everyone for coming. The audience and the Board began to rise from their seats to 
exit the meeting room. The Board stopped recording the meeting at this point. However, the 
Board returned to their seats a few minutes later to continue the meeting. This portion of the 
meeting lasted at least 30 minutes during which the Board discussed and approved the 
application.2 
The Board's draft minutes from this meeting, created after this complaint was filed 
with our office, do not reference this discussion. According to the draft minutes, following 
the public comment period, the Board voted "to accept with Site Plan Review and the 
department head and Community Development Board recommendations." Although Chair 
Arena did not state that the Board would take a recess following the hearing. Chair Arena 
contends that he also did not state that the meeting was adjourned and that no one was asked 
to leave the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id 
The complaint alleges that the Board met privately to discuss and take action on the 61 
Locust Street project immediately after the meeting adjourned and the public left the meeting 
2 At one point, the complainant, who remained in the hallway just outside the room, observed the Board's 
secretary close the door to the meeting room. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
room. We agree with the complainant that Chair Arena's statements misled the public to 
reasonably assume that the meeting had concluded. Following Chair Arena's statements, both 
the audience and the Board members rose from their seats, giving the appearance that the 
meeting was over. The Board did not vote on (or even announce) whether to take a recess and 
did not indicate to the public that it would re-convene following this recess for the purpose of 
discussing the application. The Open Meeting Law defines deliberation broadly to include 
communication between or among a quorum of the Board on any matter within its 
jurisdiction. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). Accordingly, the Board's discussion 
following the hearing that led to the Board's decision to grant the permit must be done during 
a properly posted meeting and must be accurately reflected in the minutes. See OML 2016-
54.3 Based on the circumstances, we find that this discussion was not open to the public and 
therefore find that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. Because the Board did not specifically use the word, "adjourn," or ask anyone 
to leave the meeting, we decline to find that the Board's actions were intentional, but rather 
the result of a serious misunderstanding of the law's requirements. 
Although it is not alleged in the complaint, we find that the Board also violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to timely create and approve meeting minutes. Public bodies 
have an obligation to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings." G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§ 22(a), These meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. 
c. 3 OA, § 22(c). Although the Open Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting, whenever possible. 
See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. For bodies that meet regularly, we have concluded that a 
delay of two to three months in approving minutes does not comply with the law. See OML 
2016-62. Our office did not receive a draft until September 13, over three months after the 
meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the law by failing to timely create and 
approve accurate minutes from this meeting. Because the minutes remain in draft form, we 
find no violation for the substantive deficiencies; however, we strongly recommend that the 
Board include in its final, approved minutes a summary of the entire meeting, which would 
include the discussion following the hearing concerning the approval of the 61 Locust Street 
application. We take this opportunity to remind the Board that the minutes should contain 
enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting 
could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-101. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating privately outside of the public's view and by failing to create and approve 
minutes in a timely manner. We order immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board members to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Training Videos #1 (Introduction and Open Meeting Law 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
definitions) and #5 (Meeting Minutes and Records) and certify to our office within thirty (30) 
days of this letter, using the attached form, that it has complied with this order.4 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Cheryl Rodriguez 
Medford Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 The videos may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetmg. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2016-140 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Videos #1 and #5 on . 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
5 