===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF  THE  ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 25, 2013 
OML 2013 — 22 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from James Dombrowski, dated December 21, 2012, 
alleging that the Abington Conservation Commission (the "Commission") and Chairman 
Alex Bezanson violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on or about October 26, 2012, and the Commission 
responded to the original complaint by letter dated November 30, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. 
Dombrowski alleges that during its October 23, 2012 meeting (the "meeting"), the 
Commission discussed and took action on a topic that was not posted on the notice for the 
meeting.' 
We reviewed the October 26, 2012 complaint; your November 30, 2012 response on 
behalf of the Commission; a December 6, 2012 letter from the complainant to our office; and 
the December 21, 2012 complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
reviewed the agenda and the minutes for the meeting, as well as a letter to the Commission, 
dated October 22, 2012, that was discussed during the meeting. We also spoke by telephone 
with then-Chairman Alex Bezanson on January 8, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice 
because the chair did not reasonably anticipate that discussion on this topic would occur. 
The complaint additionally alleges that the Commission failed to follow requisite procedures for publishing 
notice of amendments to Orders of Condition under the Wetlands Protection Act and the Town of Abington 
Wetlands Protection By Law before considering a request to amend an Order of Conditions for Cape Cod 
Lumber. The Division of Open Government only enforces and interprets the Open Meeting Law, therefore we 
decline to review this allegation. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
October 22, 2012, Russell Wheatley from the Russell Wheatley Co., Inc. sent a letter to the 
Commission (the "letter") requesting its approval of an amendment to an Order of Conditions 
following a Department of Environmental Protection determination about the "mowing of the 
Griffin's Farm property." On October 23, 2012, the Commission convened a meeting in open 
session. The meeting notice, which was filed with the municipal clerk on October 18, 2012, 
did not list the letter as a topic for discussion. According to the meeting minutes, the 
Commission briefly discussed the letter and approved a motion to amend the Order of 
Conditions to permit mowing on the subject property. During a telephone conversation with 
our office, Chairman Bezanson did not recall precisely when he received a copy of the letter, 
but said it was likely provided to him either during the meeting or shortly before the meeting 
by an administrative staff member. Chairman Bezanson did not anticipate discussion of this 
particular property at the time the meeting notice was posted, however. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices "shall be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those 
topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2011-36; OML 2011-
23; OML 2011-13.2  
The letter at issue was dated October 22, 2012, only one day before the scheduled 
meeting. Therefore, Chairman Bezanson could not have anticipated at least 48 hours before 
the meeting that the letter would be discussed. A public body may consider a topic at a 
meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting.3  We therefore find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the letter at its October 23, 
2012 meeting. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3  See also OML FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at the Attorney General's website: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic 
is proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the 
public with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public 
body may consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General 
strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting 
notice because the chair did not reasonably anticipate that discussion on this topic would 
occur. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts 
in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 James Dombrowski 
Abington Conservation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 