===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 11, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 65 
 
 
Kimberly M. Scanlon 
Acting City Solicitor 
City of Medford Law Department 
85 George P. Hassett Drive 
Medford, MA 02155 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Scanlon: 
This office received a complaint from Hendrik Gideonse on August 13, 2020, alleging 
that the Medford City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about July 13, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated July 30.  The complaint alleges that a 
quorum of the Council deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  We resolve this 
matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review, the minutes of the Council meeting held on June 23, and the notice 
and video recording of the Council meeting held on July 27.2  Finally, we spoke with you by 
telephone on May 3, 2021.  We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.     
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Council of 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the Council’s July 27 meeting is available at 
https://medford.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=a69933e3-50e6-4d63-a539-5d7c63e1d75e.  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The Council scheduled meetings on June 20, June 22, and June 23 to discuss the budget 
for fiscal year 2021.  However, four of the seven Council members did not attend any of these 
June meetings and therefore all three meetings were cancelled because of the lack of a quorum.  
The complaint alleges that the four Council members who did not attend the three meetings 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting and discussed “boycotting” the three June 
meetings.  Specifically, the complaint refers to a post on Facebook from one Council member 
which states that “I question if there will even be a quorum to conduct these meetings” as 
evidence of improper deliberation.  During a subsequent meeting held on July 27, the four 
Council members stated they did not speak with another Council member outside of a posted 
meeting about attending the June meetings.  In addition, three of the four Council members 
stated that they did not respond to any posts on social media.  It is not a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law for a quorum of the members of a public body to also be members of the same 
Facebook group.  See OML 2017-192.3  Moreover, posting in a Facebook group that includes a 
quorum of members of a public body is not in and of itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
See OML 2020-139; OML 2018-145.  However, if a member of the Council were to 
communicate directly with a quorum of the Council over social media platforms such as 
Facebook, such communication may violate the Open Meeting Law.  We have reviewed the 
Facebook post made by the one Council member and find no evidence that the post involved 
communication directed to a quorum of the Council, or that Council members responded to the 
post of this one member.  Rather, the responses to the post appear to be from members of the 
public and the wife of one of the Council members.  Given the lack of evidence showing 
deliberation between or among a quorum of the Council, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.4 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 We also note that the Council held a meeting on July 7 to discuss a separate Open Meeting Law complaint filed by 
another member of the public that raised the same allegations as the complaint filed here, i.e., that four Council 
members deliberated outside of a meeting.  During the July 7 meeting, the four Council members stated they did not 
communicate, either in writing or orally, with a quorum of the Council outside of a posted meeting.  Several 
members stated that they had either sent an email or had a telephone conversation with the President of the Council 
regarding the scheduling of a meeting.  We do not find these communications to constitute deliberation where such 
communications did not involve a quorum of the Council and, further, the communications related to the scheduling 
of a meeting, which falls within the Open Meeting Law’s exception to the definition of deliberation for “scheduling 
information.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A video recording of the Council’s July 7 meeting is available at 
https://medford.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=2e69d7a5-925a-4c09-a871-7cd31f36e348.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Hendrik Gideonse – By email only:  
 Medford City Council – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
