===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 14, 2026 
  
OML 2026 – 57  
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
  
Kathleen Lambert 
Administrator 
Berkshire Regional Transit Authority 
 
kathleen.lambert@berkshirerta.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Administrator Lambert:  
 
This office received a complaint from Rene Wood on November 3, 2025, alleging that 
the Advisory Board of the Berkshire Regional Transit Authority (the “Board”)1 violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2  The complaint was filed with the Board on October 
14.  Former Administrator Robert Malnati responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
October 31.  The complaint alleges that the notice of the Board’s September 25 meeting was not 
sufficiently specific.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notice and minutes of the meetings held on September 25 and October 30, and 
the minutes of the Board’s September 18 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  Robert Malnati served as the Administrator of the Berkshire 
Regional Transit Authority (“BRTA”) until early 2026.  In anticipation of Mr. Malnati’s 
retirement, the Board performed a search for a successor.  At a meeting held on September 18, 
the Board agreed to offer the position of Administrator to Kathleen Lambert.3  After selecting 
Ms. Lambert for the position, the Board agreed that Chair Douglas McNally would contact her to 
 
1 The Board is referenced as the Berkshire Regional Transit Authority Advisory Committee in the complaint.  
2 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates hereinafter refer to the year 2025. 
3 For the sake of clarity, you are referred to in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
offer her the position.  He would then work with the BRTA’s attorney to prepare a contract for 
approval by the Board.   
 
The Board’s next meeting took place on September 25.  The notice of the September 25 
meeting included fourteen enumerated topics, including “Administrator Search Update.”  The 
meeting went forward as scheduled.  When the Board reached that topic, Chair McNally 
informed the Board that he extended the offer to Ms. Lambert, and that she accepted the offer, 
pending agreement on the contract terms.  The Board then discussed at length negotiation 
strategy and proposed contract terms, including but not limited to salary, benefits, and probation.  
The Board then voted on the parameters of the contract negotiations, including the salary range. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.4  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.  When reviewing a meeting notice 
for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the 
notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 
2026-45; OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. 
 
Over the course of several meetings prior to September 18, the Board or a subcommittee 
of the Board reviewed and discussed applications, conducted interviews, and had further 
discussions in its search for a successor to outgoing BRTA Administrator Malnati.5  At its 
September 18 meeting, the Board decided to offer the position to Kathleen Lambert and tasked 
Chair McNally with extending an offer to Ms. Lambert.  Therefore, a full week prior to the 
September 25 meeting, the Board had completed its search for a new Administrator; it had 
selected its preferred candidate.  By the time of the September 25 meeting, the Board was 
moving on to the next stage of hiring Kathleen Lambert as the new Administrator, contract 
negotiations.  The topic “Administrator Search Update” was insufficiently specific, as it did not 
reasonably advise the public that the Board anticipated a discussion of contract terms with its 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
5 It appears that a search committee was formed and may have been the subject of a prior complaint filed with the 
Board but not with our office. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
chosen finalist. Ms. Lambert.  See OML 2024-9 (finding notice that did not identify finalists by 
name insufficiently specific); OML 2019-24 (finding notice insufficiently specific where it did 
not identify individuals to be considered for appointment to Town boards and committees); OML 
2011-44 (finding notice should have specifically stated that executive session discussion 
concerned contract extension where chair knew at time that notice was posted that contract 
extension would be discussed during executive session).  In posting insufficiently specific notice, 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Board argues that it cured any violation when it included the topic “Administrator 
Contract Update – VOTE” in the notice for its October 30 meeting and voted to approve the 
contract following discussion at the October 30 meeting.  Violations of the Open Meeting Law 
may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and 
perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen 
of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2026-24; OML 2020-7; OML 2016-
49.  Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is 
accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided.  The Board’s discussion at its 
October 30 meeting did not constitute an independent deliberation on the topic that was 
improperly noticed for the September 25 meeting.  Instead, it was an update on the latest 
developments in the contract negotiation—developments that transpired since the September 25 
meeting.  At the September 25 meeting, the Board held a preliminary discussion of contract 
terms in anticipation of offering Ms. Lambert the position of Administrator.  At the October 30 
meeting, the Board discussed the latest draft of the contract, including provisions discussed with, 
and agreed to by, Ms. Lambert.  For these reasons, we find that the October 30 deliberation did 
not cure the violation of September 25. 
 
Next, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23 (c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  In support of her argument that the violation was intentional, Ms. 
Wood references prior alleged violations the Board discussed in August 2025.  However, neither 
the complaint nor the minutes of meetings held in August 2025 provide sufficient information to 
discern the precise nature of the prior alleged violation.  Therefore, we cannot say that the Board 
was previously warned to include greater specificity in meeting notices, the requirement at issue 
here.  The other arguments in support of an intentional violation are also unavailing.  
   
 Finally, although not raised in the complaint, several additional actions uncovered during 
our investigation suggest that the Board may not appreciate that open meetings must be, in the 
clear words of the Open Meeting Law, “open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  For example, 
during the September 25 meeting, which did not include an executive session, Chair McNally  
“had R. Malnati step out of the meeting,” according to the minutes.  Except when convening in 
executive session, all meetings of a public body must be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(a).  Also, at its September 18 meeting, the Board engaged in a secret ballot to aid in the 
selection of the new Administrator.  The Open Meeting Law explicitly prohibits votes taken by 
secret ballot.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b); OML 2026-1; OML 2025-85; OML 2016-121; OML 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
2015-145.  Additionally, minutes reflect that candidates were referenced by designated letters or 
numbers to obscure their identity.  A meeting is not truly open to the public when members 
speak in code.  See OML 2024-9 (finding notice insufficiently specific where finalists were 
referenced as Candidate I, Candidate II, and Candidate III).  The minutes also do not summarize 
interviews of the candidates for the position of Administrator.  When candidates are interviewed 
by a public body, minutes must include a summary of those interviews.  See OML Declination 6-
24-25 (Barre DPW Commission); OML 2024-25; OML 2011-34.  We recommend that the Board 
revise minutes of meetings at which interviews were conducted to include summaries of the 
interviews and any discussion of the candidates to the extent not already included.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its September 25 meeting.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  Additionally, in light of the Board’s 
misunderstanding of multiple areas of the Open Meeting Law, as revealed by our review of this 
Open Meeting Law complaint, we order all members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting 
Law training webinar provided by our office within 90 days of the date of this letter, and to 
certify to our office that they have done so.6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  Rene Wood (via email: ) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
 
6 Information on upcoming webinars is available on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://wwwmass.gov/servicedetails/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
