===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 95 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Felicia Vasudevan, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
fvasudevan@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Vasudevan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bruce Friedman on July 18, 2022, alleging that the 
Malden School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 14, 2022, and 
Attorney Mariem Marquetti responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 9, 
2022, pursuant to an extension of time granted by this office.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to respond to the complainant’s request for meeting minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also corresponded with counsel for the Committee by email. 
 
The complaint alleges that on September 2, the complainant requested from the 
Committee minutes of meetings held during specified date ranges.  The complaint does not 
allege, and we do not review, whether the requested meeting minutes were timely approved; we 
only review whether the Committee timely responded to the requests for minutes.  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in 
draft form, be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days from the date a request is 
received to provide a response.  A public body is only required to produce any meeting minutes, 
whether in draft or approved form, which existed at the time of a request.  A public body is not 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
required to produce meeting minutes in response to a request that do not already exist.  See OML 
2020-151.2  However, if minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is still 
required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days with an explanation of whether the 
minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form.  See OML 2021-46. 
 
The Committee does not dispute that it failed to timely respond to the September 2 
requests for meeting minutes within 10 calendar days; the Committee acknowledges that it 
responded to the requests on September 19.  Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, we must
  determine whether the Committee’s violation was, as the complainant 
urges, intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Here, we have not previously warned the Committee against the 
violation found here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional 
violation by the Committee.  We therefore decline to find that the violation was intentional. 
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes.  We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Bruce Friedman (via email: ) 
Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
 Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee  (via email: 
mayor@cityofmalden.org) 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 