===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 3, 2014 
OML 2014-22 
Albert J. Russo 
 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Russo: 
This office received a complaint from Albert Russo (the complainant), filed with our 
office on January 6, 2014, alleging that the Barnstable Town Council (the Council) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint asks our office to 
review whether, in publicly released executive session minutes, certain redactions under a claim 
of attorney/client privilege are in fact covered by the privilege. The complaint was filed with the 
Council on November 26, 2013. The Town Attorney, acting on behalf of the Council, responded 
by letter dated December 24, 2013. 
We reviewed the November 26, 2013 complaint filed with the Council; the Council's 
December 24, 2013 response; and the January 6, 2014 complaint filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the redacted minutes of the February 16, 2012 executive session of the Council at 
issue. Following our review, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, and are unable to 
perform the review, as requested by the complainant, to determine whether the Council properly 
asserted the attorney/client privilege. 
FACTS 
At issue in this complaint are the redacted portions of the minutes of an executive session 
meeting of the Council which took place on February 16, 2012. The subject of that executive 
session was the settlement of a lawsuit between the complainant and the Town of Barnstable. 
On October 30, 2013, following a review, the Council determined that the purpose for the 
February 16, 2012 executive session no longer justified withholding those minutes from 
disclosure. The Council therefore released a large portion of those minutes, but withheld parts 
under the claim that the redacted portions were protected by the attorney/client privilege. 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 

===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The complainant does not allege that the Council's February 16, 2012 executive session 
was improper or that the Council continued to withhold the minutes of this meeting after the 
purpose for the executive session had expired. Rather, this complaint asks that the redactions in 
the minutes that were released be reviewed for applicability of the attorney/client privilege and 
released if the privilege is determined not to apply. We are unable to perform the review 
requested. See OML 2012-41. 
The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate a complaint 
alleging a violation of the law and to request documents in the course of that investigation. 
However, the law provides that the Attorney General may not require a public body to disclose 
"any documentary material which would be privileged." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 24(e). If our office is 
concerned that a privilege claim is not valid and we believe that an Open Meeting Law violation 
has occurred, we may file an Open Meeting Law complaint in Superior Court and seek judicial 
review of that claim. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). Based on the information provided, we have no 
reason to doubt that the Council's claim of attorney/client privilege is valid or to believe that an 
Open Meeting Law violation has occurred. If the complainant disagrees with the Council's 
determination that these redactions are privileged, he may file an Open Meeting Law complaint 
in Superior Court to challenge the Council's decision to withhold the minutes, and request that 
the court review the purportedly privileged documents. See id. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination closed. This letter does 
not address any other complaints that may be currently pending before this office or the Council. 
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
cc: Barnstable Town Council 
Ruth J. Weil, Town Attorney, Town of Barnstable 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
CONCLUSION 
Very truly yours. 
N 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 