===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 15, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 59 
  
VIA EMAIL  
   
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
GCorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Corbo:  
 
This office received a complaint from Neil Johnsen on December 4, 2024, alleging that 
the North Reading Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on October 21 and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 24, 2025.2  The complaint alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed topics contained in a notice that was amended 
less than 48 hours prior to its October 2 meeting.  The complaint further alleges that members of 
the Board failed to certify receipt of Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks of 
qualification for office. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.
3  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed the notice and amended notice of the October 2 meeting.  We reviewed emails 
exchanged between North Reading staff from September 26 to October 2.  Finally, we 
communicated with Attorney Hayley A. Reifeiss, of your office, via email.  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
2 A public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14  business days.  However, a public body 
need not address a complaint that is not signed by the complainant.  940 CMR 29.05(1).  As the instant complaint 
was not signed, the Board was not required to respond to it within 14 business days, or at all if it so chose. 
3 As explained below, we find that one of the two topics included in the amended notice was anticipated 48 hours 
prior to the meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 30, the Board posted notice of a meeting to 
take place on October 2 at 7:00 p.m.  That notice included only one topic of discussion, Neil 
Johnson’s Appeal Request of North Reading Installers Exam.  An amended notice was posted by 
North Reading Health Administrator Christine Doolin on October 2, at 1:21 p.m.  The amended 
notice added the following two topics to the notice: 
 
2.  7:30 
  Request for Variance 
 
3.   Agent appointment 
  Brian LaGrasse Health Director from North Andover 
 
The circumstances under which each of these topics was added to the meeting notice are 
detailed below.  
 
Request for Variance 
 
On September 26, Indira Siljak sent an email to Ms. Doolin (with a copy to Building 
Inspector Jason Lacroix and Building Commissioner Gerard Noel), requesting a “variance 
regarding the septic upgrade for our property at 170 Marblehead Street, North Reading.”  The 
email provided an update on construction of home improvements at the subject property and 
requested “an extension of the due date for the septic replacement so that we can move into our 
home.  We would also like to present our case at the upcoming Board of Health meeting on 
October 2nd.”  Upon receipt of Indira Siljak’s email, Ms. Doolin forwarded it that same 
afternoon, September 26, to all three members of the Board, Karen Martin, Pam Vath, and Chair 
Gary Hunt (again copying Inspector Lacroix and Commissioner Noel).   
 
On October 1, Indira Siljak sent a follow up an email to Ms. Doolin, the three members 
of the Board, and Messrs. Lacroix and Noel, asking that they “let [her] know” of “any updates.”  
Board member Vath then forwarded that follow up email to her fellow Board members and to 
Ms. Doolin “wondering if this is on agenda for this weeks [sic] meeting.”  Ms. Doolin responded 
the next day, October 2, that “[t]his is not on our agenda for tonight.”  She further stated that 
“Shelly Newhouse4 said the variance they are looking for is the Boards [sic] decision.”  Chair 
Hunt responded, asking Ms. Doolin to “contact the homeowner and ask them if they are 
available to come to the meeting tonight.  We can place them on the agenda at 730 pm after the 
appeal meeting.”  In her response, Ms. Doolin asked: “Since I am updating the agenda do we 
want add appoint [sic] Brian LaGrasse who is the Health Director from North Andover, as an 
agent of the Board of Health?”  Chair Hunt responded that it was “fine” to add the appointment 
of the agent to the notice. 
 
  
 
4 Shelly Newhouse is the health agent for the Town of Wilmington.  Based on the documents before us, it is unclear 
what role Shelly Newhouse played relative to the Marblehead Street property.  

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Appointment of temporary Health Agent 
 
On September 19, the Board learned that the town’s Health Agent would be taking leave.  
That leave commenced the next day, on September 20.  It was the Board’s responsibility to 
appoint someone to hold the position in his absence.  Brian LaGrasse, the Health Director of 
North Andover, agreed to take the position as temporary health agent for the town of North 
Reading.  On September 26, North Andover Assistant Town Manager Andrew Shapiro sent an 
email to North Reading Director of Public Services, Lillian Hartman, granting permission to 
“appoint Brian to perform inspections for North Reading - he indicated that he would be willing 
to assist where he can.”  At 5:31 p.m., Ms. Hartman forwarded Mr. Shapiro’s email to Ms. 
Doolin and Assistant Town Clerk Stephanie Connolly, directing them to “see the note below 
about North Andover Brian LaGrasse [sic] willingness to be appointed as a health agent by the 
BOH.”  She inquired whether it would “be too late to add that to the agenda as a correction for 
Friday’s meeting.”5  She then asked: “Could either of you share Gary’s contact information with 
me, or Chrissy [Doolin] are you already in touch with him regularly about agendas, to see if he’d 
like to consider this appointment Friday and what documentation he might need other than 
Brian’s role as Director of Health for North Andover?” 
 
As noted above, Ms. Doolin posted an amended notice for the October 2 meeting on 
October 2, at 1:21 p.m.  The meeting took place, as scheduled.  At the October 2 meeting, the 
Board discussed all topics listed on the amended notice.  According to minutes of the meeting, 
there was a lengthy discussion of work and the variance at the Marblehead Street property.  
There was a motion and vote to appoint Mr. LaGrasse as Health Director.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law at its October 2 meeting when it discussed 
topics that the Chair anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting, which were not 
contained in the original notice. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to include a 
topic that was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours before the meeting and then discuss that topic 
during the meeting.  See OML 2024-160; OML 2020-122; OML 2019-131.6  Here, the Board 
posted an amended notice of the October 2 meeting less than 6 hours prior to the scheduled start 
time of the meeting and discussed the two topics that were added in the amended notice at the 
 
5 The Board had a meeting scheduled for Friday, September 27. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting.  We must determine whether Chair Hunt reasonably anticipated the two additional 
topics 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
 
Variance 
 
The Board maintains it was only after notice of the October 2 meeting was posted on 
September 30 that Chair Hunt learned that the building inspector required approval of the 
Marblehead Street property’s septic system prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.  Whenever 
Chair Hunt learned of the town building inspector’s role, he and the other Board members were 
forwarded an email on September 26, in which the homeowners wrote that they “would also like 
to present [their] case at the upcoming Board of Health meeting on October 2nd.”  Chair Hunt 
received an email on September 26 in which the homeowners asked to appear at the October 2 
meeting to discuss the replacement of their septic system.  Mere receipt of the September 26 
email does not mandate a finding that Chair Hunt anticipated that the Marblehead property 
would be discussed at the October 2 meeting.  We have said, for example, that where the chair of 
a public body declines to add a topic to the meeting notice because he does not anticipate a 
discussion taking place during the meeting in question, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law when someone else introduces that topic at a meeting.  See OML 2024-128.  See also OML 
2023-11 (finding no violation when the chair declined to place a requested topic on the meeting 
notice, another selectman introduced the topic, and the chair terminated discussion).   
 
Here, however, there is no indication that Chair Hunt considered, and declined, to include 
the variance as a topic on the original notice.  Rather, based on the information before us, Chair 
Hunt reasonably anticipated as of September 26 that the topic would be discussed at the October 
2 meeting but neglected to include it on the notice.  When homeowner Indira Siljak followed up 
with the Board on October 1, Board member Vath asked her fellow Board members whether the 
matter was on the meeting notice.  Member Vath’s October 1 email confirms that she (and Chair 
Hunt) reasonably read the September 26 email to request that the topic of the variance be added 
to the notice.  By not including the topic on a notice 48 hours prior to the October 2 meeting, and 
then discussing the topic anyway, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Appointment of Temporary Health Agent 
 
The Board has represented that Brian LaGrasse agreed to serve as a temporary health 
agent for the Town of North Reading on October 1.  Emails show otherwise.  North Reading 
Director of Public Services, Lillian Hartman, learned on September 26 that Mr. LaGrasse was 
willing to serve as a health agent and shared that information with North Reading staff that day.  
Moreover, as early as September 26, Ms. Hartman sought to convey this information to Chair 
Hunt so that he could decide whether to include the appointment as a topic on the Board’s 
meeting notice.  Despite Ms. Hartman’s attempts to relay this information to Chair Hunt six days 
before the October 2 meeting, there is nothing to confirm that he received it.  To the contrary, 
Chair Hunt has denied that he received any email from Ms. Hartman regarding the appointment 
and estimates that he learned about it from Ms. Doolin by way of a phone call on or about 
October 2.  The vagueness of the chronology is unsatisfying, especially given that Chair Hunt’s 
memory of the Marblehead Street variance is contradicted by emails uncovered in our 
investigation.  Nonetheless, we credit Chair Hunt’s account that he did not anticipate the 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
appointment until a phone call on October 2, as there is no information to contradict it.  See 
OML 2025-15; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141 (Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we 
credit a public body's version of events.). 
 
We have, under some circumstances, looked beyond the chair to determine whether a 
topic should have been listed on the notice.  If a public body chair delegates the task of preparing 
meeting notices to another individual, the meeting notice must include all topics that the chair as 
well as all topics that the person tasked with creating the meeting notice reasonably anticipate for 
discussion.  See OML 2024-75; OML 2020-152; OML 2015-190.  We have found that a chair 
has delegated preparation of the notice when the other person has some control over the meeting 
agenda.  See, e.g., OML 2020-152 (School Committee Chair and Superintendent worked 
collaboratively to determine the list of topics to be discussed.)  Here, Ms. Doolin played a role in 
preparation of the notice but her role was administrative.  Discussion topics required Chair 
Hunt’s approval before Ms. Doolin could place them on the notice.  Therefore, we do not look to 
whether Ms. Doolin anticipated discussion of the topic when determining sufficiency of the 
notice. 
 
Based on the information before us, we cannot say that Chair Hunt reasonably anticipated 
the appointment of Brian LaGrasse 48 hours prior to the October 2 meeting.  Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by deliberating about the appointment of 
Mr. LaGrasse when the topic was not included on the notice 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when at least two members failed to 
certify receipt of Open Meeting Law materials pursuant to the Law’s requirements. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within two weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the educational 
materials that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination 
issued to the public body within the last five years in which our office found a violation.  940 
CMR 29.04(1).  Finally, the regulations clarify that public body members “must sign a 
new certification upon reelection or reappointment to the public body.”  940 CMR 29.04(4) and 
(5).   
 
The Board has acknowledged that Gary Hunt and Karen Martin did not certify receipt of 
the open meeting law materials within two weeks of qualification for office.  We find that, due to 
this failure, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its October 2 meeting and by failing to certify receipt 
===PAGE 6===
of copies of the Open Meeting Law and educational materials. As a remedy, the complainant
asks that the Board be required to "redo the hearing with the proper notifications." It is unclear
what part of the meeting the complainant would like re-noticed. In light of our findings, it is
only the discussion of the Marblehead Street property that might warrant such a remedy.
However, as no vote was taken relative to that topic at the October 2 meeting, and the topic was
discussed at later, properly posted meetings, we do not order that the Board revisit this topic.
We order all members of the Board to sign a certification form, certifying receipt of the
Open Meeting Law and educational materals, and file it with the Clerk within 30 days of the
date of this letter, if they have not done so already? Lastly, we order immediate and future
compliance with the law's requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt m
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Neil Johnsen (via email:
Chair of the Board of Health (via email:
North Reading Town Administrator (via email: mgilleberto@northreadingma.gov)
North Reading Town Clerk (via email: sduplin@northreadingma.gov)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
" In response to the complaint, the Board produced certificates of conflict of interest training. Conflict of interest is
not governed by the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law Guide and Educational Materials and the required
certificate of receipt can be found at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-educational-materials.
6