===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 22, 2017 
OML 2017-103 
Winchester School Committee 
do Dr. Judith Evans, Superintendent 
40 Samoset Road 
Winchester, MA 01890 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Dr. Evans: 
This office received three complaints from Claire Barden on May 16, alleging that the 
Winchester School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.' The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about April 
10 and April 12, respectively, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letters dated 
April 27 and April 28, respectively. In her complaints, Ms. Barden alleges that certain 
meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the minutes of the Committee's meetings held on February 1; 
March 23; and March 30. Finally, we reviewed portions of a recording of the Committee's 
March 30 meeting.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On April 4, the Committee approved the minutes from 
its meetings held on February 1; March 23; and March 30. The Committee met on February 1 
to hold a "workshop session" with an outside consultant which lasted approximately two 
hours. Comprised of a one-sentence summary, the minutes state that the Committee "held a 
discussion on fundamental goals of school system, need for building master planning, 
' All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 Available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JBUrXDGguvs. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
financial support, supporting student and staff emotional health, need for long-range vision 
and collaboration, and how to collaborate with the superintendent." 
The Committee also held another workshop during its March 23 meeting, during 
which an outside consultant conducted a presentation to the Committee on topics related to 
strategic visioning for the school district. The minutes list both the Committee members and 
the school district officials present for the meeting. The minutes summarize a two and one-
half hour meeting in one and one-half pages. Under the heading, "Strategic Visioning 
Initiative," the minutes provide a one-sentence summary of the workshop's purpose, stating 
that Committee member Cindy Bohne provided an overview of the Strategic Visioning 
Initiative. The minutes further state that the Committee, 
discussed what type of learner and citizen Winchester hopes each Winchester Public 
School student will become. Also discussed was what would have to change, for 
students and for adults, for the school system to be better at supporting the students to 
become the kind of learners and citizens we envision. 
The Committee also "briefly discussed" an Open Meeting Law complaint. The 
minutes offer no detail about the complaint or the Committee's discussion. 
The Committee held another meeting on March 30 during which it discussed and 
voted on granting authority to the superintendent to submit Statement of Interest forms to the 
Massachusetts School Building Authority for the construction and/or renovation of the 
district's elementary schools. The discussion specifically concerning the elementary 
schools— comprising approximately 50 minutes of the two and one-half hour meeting—is 
summarized in two sentences. The minutes state, "[t]he different options for which 
elementary school and location and priorities were discussed. The [Committee] reached a 
consensus that Lynch Elementary School was [to] be the first priority identified with the 
[Statement of Interest]." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law further requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with 
the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.3 By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http ://www.mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
The complainant alleges that the Committee's minutes of its meetings held on 
February 1; March 23; and March 30 lacked sufficient detail. The Committee contends that, 
because the February 1 and March 23 meetings were "workshop" meetings during which no 
decisions were made, the necessary detail for minutes from those meetings is diminished. We 
disagree. The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes from any meeting include the same 
level of detail. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The discussions during the workshop meetings 
focused on some of the Committee's core goals. According to the Committee's webpage, one 
of its goals is to "[ejstablish goals and policies for the Winchester School System relating to 
education and insuring that the policies are implemented by the Administration."4 The 
Committee's webpage also links to the topic. Strategic Visioning, which refers to a dialogue 
that the Committee and the school leadership seek to engage with all stakeholders about "how 
we may redefine what success looks like for our students, teachers, and schools." We find 
that both workshop topics are matters within the Committee's jurisdiction, and thus the 
Committee's discussions must be memorialized in the same level of detail as required for any 
other meeting. See OML 2015-20. 
All three meetings involved lengthy discussions on topics which lasted one or two 
hours each. The minutes from those meetings offer only a brief synopsis of the overall topics 
without providing specific details about the actual discussions. See OML 2017-54. For 
example, the description of the Committee's two-hour workshop on February 1 was 
condensed to one sentence. Likewise, the Committee's March 23 meeting minutes included a 
short paragraph to reflect an approximately two-hour discussion about the strategic visioning 
initiative. In addition, at the end of this meeting, the Committee discussed an Open Meeting 
Law complaint; however, the minutes offer no detail about that complaint or the Committee's 
discussion. During its March 30 meeting, the Committee held a lengthy discussion about the 
school district's plan for future construction. The minutes summarize a 50-minute discussion 
about prioritizing which of the district's two elementary schools into one sentence, describing 
it as, "different options for which elementary school and location and priorities were 
discussed," without including any specific detail about those options or priorities. 
Accordingly, we find that all three sets of minutes lacked sufficient detail in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-105; OML 2014-105. 
The complainant also alleges that the March 23 meeting minutes failed to include a 
"full list of members participating in the Strategic Visioning Initiative." By listing the 
Committee members who were present for the meeting, however, we find that the minutes 
comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirement that the minutes list those Committee 
members present or absent. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). Although not required, the minutes 
also included the school officials who were present for the meeting, which was useful for 
understanding the purpose and context of the meeting. Accordingly, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
4 Available at http://www.winchesterps.org/school_committee/index.php. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting minutes. We order the Committee's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we 
order the Committee to revise its February 1; March 23; and March 30 meeting minutes to 
include the requisite detail within 30 days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Claire Barden 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 