===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       April 2, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 54 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick McPhee alleging that the Ashby Select 
Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on or around November 25, 2022, and Board Chair David 
Nadeau responded to the complaint by letter dated January 19, 2023.  The first complaint alleges 
that the Board met in executive session on November 22, 2022, without a lawful purpose to 
discuss the town administrator’s contract.  The second complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or around January 18, 2023, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Board, by letter dated February 2, 2023.  The second complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting regarding the selection of an interim town administrator.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the Board’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
the notices and minutes for the Board’s meetings held on November 22 and December 16, 2022.  
Finally, we spoke at length with the complainant by phone.   
 
November 25, 2022, Complaint 
 
The November 25, 2022, complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it met in executive session on November 22, 2022, to discuss contract negotiations 
with the town administrator, who was then in the first year of a three-year contract.  The notice 
for the Board’s November 22 meeting stated that “The Selectboard will hold an executive 
session pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 30A, Section 21(a), Reason #2, to conduct a strategy session in 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel (the Town Administrator) and to conduct 
contract negotiations with non-union personnel (the Town Administrator).”  The Board has 
publicly released the minutes of its November 22 executive session; the minutes reflect that 
during the meeting the Board met with the town administrator to discuss terminating her contract 
and to negotiate terms of a separation agreement.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open se
ssion, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94.1  One permissible purpose for executive session is to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). 
 
Although we acknowledge that an executive session to discuss contract negotiations with 
a town administrator who was less than a year into a three-year contract may have raised 
concerns with members of the public at the time, after review we are satisfied that the matters 
discussed during the executive session were appropriate.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.   
 
January 18, 2023, Complaint 
 
The January 18, 2023, complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a posted meeting regarding the appointment of an interim town 
administrator.  During a short meeting on December 16, 2022, the Board announced the 
resignation of the town administrator and the need to appoint an interim town administrator.  
Following very brief discussion, Board member Mary Calandrella moved to appoint Fire Chief 
Mike Bussell as interim town administrator; Board Chair David Nadeau seconded the motion; 
and the motion passed.  The complaint does not offer any direct evidence of deliberation 
regarding the appointment of Chief Bussell prior to the December 16 meeting but asserts that the 
lack of substantive discussion before voting suggests prior discussion.  The complaint also notes 
an inconsistency in that the minutes of the December 16 meeting reflect that Board member 
Calandrella made the motion to appoint Chief Bussell as town administrator with Chair Nadeau 
seconding the motion, whereas in a later meeting Chair Nadeau remarked that he had made the 
motion. 
 
We have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion 
among publ
ic body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is 
insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  
See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.  The Board denies that it discussed the 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
appointment of Chief Bussell as interim town administrator outside of a posted meetin g and 
explains that Chief Bussell had recently served as interim town administrator for several months 
prior to the appointment of the most recent town administrator, so the Board and others in 
attendance were familiar with Chief Bussell’s service and qualifications.  Absent specific 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s version of events.  See OML 2021-30; 
OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.  We also do not find that a minor misstatement at a later meeting 
regarding which Board member made a motion and which seconded the motion suggests prior 
improper deliberation.  Therefore, we do not find that the Board deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting regarding the appointment of Chief Bussell as interim town administrator. 
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
 David Nadeau, Chair, Ashby Select Board (via email: dnadeau@ashbyma.gov) 
 Ashby Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@ashbyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
