===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
December 13, 2021 
OML 2021 – 189 
VIA EMAIL 
Nancy J. Campany, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 202 
Braintree, MA 02184-8807 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Campany: 
This office received two complaints from Marguerite Lee on August 26 and September 2, 
2021, alleging that the Norfolk County Advisory Board Finance Committee (the “Committee”) 
and the Norfolk County Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee and the Commission
on July 1. The Committee and Commission responded by letters dated July 21.1 In her
complaints, Ms. Lee alleges that both the Committee and the Commission posted insufficiently
specific notices for a joint June 2 meeting.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee and the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s and the 
Commission’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. 
We also reviewed the two notices for the joint June 2 meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.2 Rather, we review what the public 
body actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to 
make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id.  
 Here, the Committee and Commission each posted notice for a joint June 2 meeting, 
though the two notices did not indicate that the Committee and Commission planned to meet 
jointly. Each of the two meeting notices contained the topic “Letter from NCAB Milton Rep 
Joseph Reardon.” The Committee and Commission concede, and we agree, that this topic did not 
clearly advise the public about what the Committee and the Commission intended to discuss, 
which was an employee hiring freeze. We therefore find that the Committee and the Commission 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 The complaints also allege that the meeting notices should have specified that the June 2 
meeting would be a joint meeting between the Committee and the Commission. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body indicate on a notice whether a meeting will be a 
joint meeting with another public body. See OML 2021-153. Therefore, we find no violation 
with respect to this allegation. 
 For the reasons stated above, the Committee and the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by posted insufficiently specific meeting notices for a joint June 2 meeting. We 
order the Committee’s and Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Committee and the Commission that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Because the hiring freeze was lifted on June 30, we decline to order any further 
remedial action.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee or the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Marguerite Lee (via e-mail:  
 Norfolk County Commissioners (via e-mail:  
 Norfolk County Advisory Board Finance Committee c/o Norfolk County Advisory Board 
 Chair Joseph Reardon (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 