===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 25, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 86 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas J. Harrington, Esq. 
Harrington Heep, LLP 
tom@harringtonheep.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Harrington: 
 
This office received a complaint from Madeleine Blake on January 19, 2024, alleging 
that the Carlisle Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was filed with the Select Board on December 14, 2023, and you responded on 
behalf of the Select Board by letter dated January 9, 2024. The complaint alleges that the Select 
Board created a subcommittee subject to the Open Meeting Law called the “Audit Committee” 
(the “Committee”). 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the Board’s November 
14 meeting.
1 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
November 14, 2023. Included on the notice was the following topic:  
 
7. Committee Discussion  
• Audit Committee  
• Cemetery Task Force  
 
1 A video recording of the Board’s November 14 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y8DGOPyyNdk. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
• Traffic Safety Committee  
• Town Building Committee 
 
The Board held its November 14 meeting as scheduled and under the “Committee 
Discussion” topic, Board member David Model proposed that an audit committee be established. 
Mr. Model explained his reasons for proposing an audit committee and the role he envisioned the 
committee playing in the town audit process. Specifically, an audit committee would provide 
oversight of the audit process and be able to work through any issues with the auditor during the 
process, prior to the final auditor’s report being presented for the Board’s approval.   
 
The Board then discussed at some length the purpose and work of an audit committee, as 
well as its membership and whether it would be subject to the Open Meeting Law. Early in the 
discussion, the Board’s Chair, Kate Reid, confirmed with Mr. Model that the committee should 
have three members. They also discussed that it would be best if the audit committee had one 
Board member, one Finance Committee member, and one other resident. During discussion of 
whether the audit committee would be subject to the Open Meeting Law, it was proposed that 
one option would be to have the Town Administrator create the committee and that it would be 
his committee. During this discussion, the Town Administrator described how he envisioned the 
committee working and then sought confirmation from the Board that this is what it wanted and 
suggested that the Board memorialize this in writing. Finally, after additional discussion of the 
audit process, a Board member, trying to solidify where the Board had landed with respect to 
creation of an audit committee, stated that it appeared the Board was in agreement that it would 
have someone from the Finance Committee and someone from the Board perform the role of an 
audit committee. Board members responded essentially stating that the Board would not create 
the committee, but rather the Town Administrator would. The member then asked for 
clarification as to whether the Board was directing the Town Administrator to create an audit 
committee and there was general agreement that this is what the Board was doing. Thereafter, 
the Board turned to discussion of a traffic safety committee.   
 
According to the Board’s response, aware of the present complaint, the Town 
Administrator “invited” one Board member and two Finance Committee members to meet with 
the auditor on December 19. The Town Administrator “advised everyone present that the 
meeting was informational only, and that the three board members present were not able to make 
any decisions or take any action other than to highlight any concerns they may have, 
individually, with the auditor and their proposed process.”   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the complaint does not allege that the Committee 
actually violated the Open Meeting Law; indeed, based on the information provided by the 
Board in response to the complaint, it appears that the Committee had not yet met at the time the 
complaint was filed. Rather, the complaint asserts that the Board created the Committee, the 
Committee is subject to the Open Meeting Law, and that “[i]t is reasonable to assume that a 
month after the Select Board established this committee, it has begun to meet.” Although we 
could decline to review this complaint because it does not allege any actual violations of the 
Open Meeting Law, we take this opportunity to provide guidance to the Committee, the Board, 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
and the Complainant on the issue of whether the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that public 
bodies, among other things, post notice for all meetings; hold meetings open to the public, unless 
a lawful executive session has been convened; and create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, both open and executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-22. The Open Meeting Law 
applies only to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a 
multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee . . . however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, there are three factors we consider: 1) the entity must be “within” government and not 
excluded from the definition of “public body”; 2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to act 
collectively; and 3) the entity must serve a “public purpose.” See OML 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
3 
 
 The Board does not dispute that the Committee is within government or that it serves a 
public purpose. Rather, the Board asserts that it took no action to formally create the Committee, 
that the Town Administrator created the Committee, and that the Committee was not empowered 
to act collectively. In support of this assertion, the Board states that it ended its November 14 
discussion “with the informal understanding that the Town Administrator may ask individuals to 
work with the auditor to provide information on an as needed basis.” The Board further states 
that the Town Administrator “invited” a member of the Board and two members of the Finance 
Committee to meet with the auditor but advised them that “the meeting was informational only, 
and that [they] were not able to make any decisions or take any action other than to highlight any 
concerns they may have, individually, with the auditor and their proposed process.” Finally, the 
Board states that “[e]ach of these individuals is free to express their own opinions or concerns to 
the Town Administrator or to their respective boards for discussion at a public meeting.”  
 
We do not agree with the Board’s characterization of its November 14 discussion, nor do 
we f
ind that the Town Administrator created the Committee of his own volition to advise him on 
a matter solely within his authority such that the Committee would fall within the judicially 
created exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “public body” established in 
Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). During the November 14 
 
2 The Complainant filed another complaint with our office on January 19 that similarly alleged no specific violations 
of the Open Meeting Law, but rather alleged that the Select Board and Planning Board had created six separate 
“working groups” that were subject to the Open Meeting Law. We declined to review that complaint because it did 
not allege any actual violations of the Open Meeting Law and, due to the number of bodies the complaint concerned, 
the complaint essentially asked the Division to perform a broad audit, which the Division will not do. Additionally, 
the complaint regarding creation of the six working groups was filed more than 30 days after the Complainant 
became aware of the existence of the working groups. The complaint at issue in the present determination is limited 
to one body and was filed within 30 days of the creation of the Committee; therefore, we have chosen to review this 
complaint and provide specific guidance regarding whether the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting, the Board discussed at length the creation of an audit committee, including the number 
and make
up of its membership. Furthermore, the video recording of the November 14 meeting 
does not support the Board’s assertion that the Board ended its discussion “with the informal 
understanding that the Town Administrator may ask individuals to work with the auditor.” 
Rather, at the end of its discussion, the Board appeared to agree that it was directing the Town 
Administrator to convene an audit committee; the Town Administrator then did so, consistent 
with the direction provided by the Board. See OML 2017-36 (“[T]he fact that [the 
superintendent] chose the [t]ask [f]orce members is not dispositive.”); OML 2018-21; OML 
2021-95; OML 2023-55 (finding that a working group was subject to the Open Meeting Law 
“where it was created with significant input from the school committee and for the purpose of 
making recommendations to the school committee”).  
 
 Similarly, we find the argument that the Committee was not empowered to act 
coll
ectively unavailing. Whether the Committee chose not to take any votes or issue formal 
guidance or reports is not, in and of itself, determinative. Here, it is clear that the Board 
contemplated that the Committee would be authorized to oversee the audit process, collectively 
provide input to the auditor, and resolve any issues that arose during the process. See OML 
2021-95 (finding a committee was empowered to act collectively where its purpose “was to 
compile and analyze information and work collaboratively to provide recommendations to both 
the Town Manager and the Select Board”). Based on the totality of the information before us, we 
find that the Committee is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. The Committee must comply with the Open Meeting Law immediately and 
in the future. Additionally, the Committee must create accurate minutes for any meetings it has 
held, including its December 19 meeting.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the 
Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Kate Reid, Chair, Carlisle Select Board (via email: KReid@carlislema.gov)  
Peggy Wang, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@carlislema.gov) 
Madeleine Blake (via email: ) 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 