===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. m ass .go v/ago 
November 19, 2015 
OML 2015-172 
Jill Goldsmith 
Chatham Town Manager 
549 Main Street 
Chatham, MA 02633 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Goldsmith: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on August 22,1 alleging that the 
Chatham Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 6, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated August 19.2 In his complaint. Mi-. Beaty 
alleges that the notice for the Board's August 5 meeting lacked sufficient detail about the nature 
of an executive session topic discussed at that meeting and failed to list "open session" as a 
separate topic on the notice. Additionally, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board's executive session 
discussion was improper. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to list "open session" as a topic on its meeting notice. We find that the Board did not violate the 
Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice and executive session minutes from the Board's August 5 
meeting.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 5, the Board held a joint meeting with the 
Chatham Airport Commission (the Commission) solely for the purpose of convening in 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For puiposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The Board did not create a separate set of open session minutes. We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law 
requires that minutes be created for both open and executive session minutes, even when the open session discussion 
concerns only the procedural steps for entering executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22. While the minutes may be 
a combined document, they should accurately distinguish between open and executive session so that they may be 
segregated if a request is made and the executive session minutes are withheld from disclosure. See OML 2013-
155. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
executive session to discuss the next steps with respect to a complaint filed with the Federal 
Aviation Commission (FAA) by a former skydiving contractor against the Chatham Municipal 
Airport (the Airport). The meeting notice, posted on August 3, listed the sole topic as "I. MGL 
Ch. 30A, §21 #3 To discuss strategy with respect to potential litigation and the Chair declares an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body, with 
no return to Open Session (FAA)." During the meeting, Town counsel advised the Board and 
the Commission on the status of the matter, including a discussion of the initiation or defense of 
litigation to resolve the complaint and the various legal options available to the Town. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Executive session topics must be described, both in the 
meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District 
Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of 
the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because 
that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business 
in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper."); G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include "open session" as a separate topic on the August 5 meeting notice. We agree with the 
complainant on this point, as the executive session was the only topic on the agenda. Because 
the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body convene in open session before entering 
executive session, any public body entering executive session should reasonably anticipate that it 
will convene in open session to follow the procedural steps for convening an executive session. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(l)-(4). When the only business to be discussed during an open session 
is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing "open session" on the 
meeting notice is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public 
body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; 
OML 2012-68.4 For this reason, the Board's meeting notice was not sufficient to comply with 
the Open Meeting Law. In response to this complaint, the Board pledged to include this 
information in future notices. 
The complainant further alleges that the Board should not have used an abbreviation to 
identify the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session. We have previously said that 
use of abbreviations that are not commonly understood may be confusing to the public. See 
OML 2015-116; OML 2014-116. Here, however, "FAA" is commonly used to refer to the 
"Federal Aviation Administration" and is generally understood by the public. We therefore find 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
that the executive session topic was sufficiently detailed.5 G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). Nevertheless, the Board has pledged to refrain from using such abbreviations 
in the future. 
Finally, the complainant alleges that the August 5 executive session discussion was 
improper. The Board, along with the Airport Commission, met to discuss the resolution of a 
long-pending complaint filed with the FAA against the Airport. The meeting notice sufficiently 
informed the public that potential litigation with the FAA would be discussed and that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the Town's litigating position, as is required by G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b)(3) (Purpose 3). The discussion concerned imminently threatened litigation, which 
is permissible under Purpose 3. See Ferryman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2015-121; OML 2015-84. Accordingly, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list "open session" as a topic on its meeting notice. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Chatham Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 While we find that the use of the abbreviation "FAA" did not violate the law, we note that the placement of that 
abbreviation in the topic description left some ambiguity about its relevance. We suggest that the topic could have 
been more clearly written as, "I. MGL Ch. 30A, §21 #3 To discuss strategy with respect to potential litigation 
concerning FAA, and the Chair declares an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body, with no return to Open Session." 
3 