===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 103 
 
 
Joshua R. Coleman, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
By email only: jcoleman@mlmlawfirm.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coleman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Berner on March 18, 2024, alleging that the 
Braintree School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 16, 2024; 
and Committee Chair Lisa Fiske Heger responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, 
by letter dated March 6, 2024.  The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on January 8, 2024, are inaccurate.   
 
Following our review, we find that the minutes include a few words which did not 
accurately reflect comments made during the meeting, but otherwise are accurate.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and 
minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 8, 2024, as well as a video recording of that 
meeting.
1   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on January 8, 2024, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OCx3-qBkJeI.  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2019-163; OML 2012-106.  Although a transcript is not required and minutes do not need 
to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a summary of the 
discussions that took place during the meeting.  See OML 2023-56 (minutes were insufficient 
where they failed to capture public comment); OML 2021-137 (minutes were insufficient where 
they captured questions asked during a public hearing but only specified that the questions were 
responded to, without summarizing the responses); OML 2013-16 (noting that minutes were 
insufficient where they did not summarize presentations made to the public body or remarks 
made by city councilors and members of the public).  
 
During the January 8, 2024, meeting, the Committee reorganized and then received 
public comment.  The complainant spoke during the meeting for over two minutes.  The minutes 
of the meeting summarize his comments as follows “Mr. Kevin Berner introduced himself as a 
community member with two children in BPS.  He provided a brief background on an incident 
involving his child off school grounds.  Mr. Berner presented information regarding how the 
matter was handled by administrators within the School Department, the Superintendent, and the 
School Committee.  He stated that administrators did not follow policy, state law, or the process 
taken through DESE’s PRS system to resolve the matter.  He expressed his disappointment in the 
School Committee, in particular the Chairperson and Superintendent.  He asked the new 
members to change the course.”  
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee meeting held on January 8, 
2024, failed to include an accurate summary of the comments made by the complainant during 
the meeting.  Specifically, the complainant suggests that the minutes incorrectly refer to the 
incident involving his child as occurring “off school grounds” where he never mentioned a 
location during his comments to the Committee.  To be “accurate,” meeting minutes must 
accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting.  See OML 2020-62.  This 
office reviews meeting minutes to ensure that they accurately reflect the discussions that take 
place during meetings; our office does not review minutes to ensure that the statements made 
during meetings are factually true.  See OML 2015-133; OML 2014-23.  Because the minutes 
must accurately capture the discussions that actually took place, it is inappropriate to include 
information in meeting minutes that was not discussed at a meeting.  After reviewing the video 
recording of the Committee’s January 8, 2024, meeting, we find that the above summary 
recorded in the minutes does not accurately reflect the complainant’s statement during the public 
comment period.  Although the Committee might have known the location of the incident 
involving the complainant’s child because of previous correspondence with the complainant, the 
actual remarks made by the complainant during the January 8, 2024, meeting never indicated 
where the incident took place.  As such, we find that insertion of the phrase “off school grounds”  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
did not accurately capture the complainant’s comments.  We find that the minutes are otherwise 
adequate and sufficiently summarize the discussions that occurred during the meeting.  
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by creating inaccurate minutes of the January 8, 2024, meeting by including the phrase “off 
school grounds.”  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  In addition, we order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the 
minutes of its January 8, 2024, meeting to remove the reference that an incident occurred “off 
school grounds.”  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kevin Berner – By email only:  
Braintree School Committee c/o Chair Lisa Fiske Heger – By email only: 
lisa.fiskeheger@braintreeschools.org  
 Braintree Town Clerk James Casey – By email only: jmcasey@braintreema.gov 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
