===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 29, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 19 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael H. Gallagher 
Interim Town Manager 
Town of Northborough  
mgallagher@town.northborough.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Interim Town Manager Gallagher: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 12, 2023,
1 alleging 
that the Northborough Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 21, and, after an 
extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
September 11. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve minutes for a 
meeting held on July 6.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely approve the minutes of its July 6 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and 
Board meeting notices available on the Town’s website.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Law further requires 
that minutes of open sessions be created and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint raised an additional allegation, but in the request for further review the Complainant explained that 
he was only seeking further review of the allegation relating to timely approval of the July 6 meeting minutes.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 
2017-133.3 
 
 The Board met in open session on July 6. Thereafter, the Board met again on July 17, 
July 26, July 31, and August 14. During the Board’s August 14 meeting it approved the minutes 
of its July 6 meeting. The Board asserts that it approved the minutes of its July 6 meeting in a 
timely manner because its July 26 meeting was held solely for the purpose of convening in 
executive session and therefore did not count toward calculation of three meetings for purpose of 
timely approving meeting minutes. We have consistently explained that neither the Open 
Meeting Law nor the regulations make any distinction between “regular” meetings and other 
types of meetings for purposes of timely approval of minutes. See OML 2017-103 (public body 
should have created complete minutes for its “workshop” meetings because topics discussed 
were matters within the public body’s jurisdiction); OML 2019-115 (no exception for “single 
topic” meetings or meetings not “normally scheduled”); OML 2019-153. As such, because the 
Board did not approve the minutes for the July 6 meeting until August 14, its fourth meeting and 
more than 30 days after the July 6 meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that a future finding of a similar violation may be considered an intent to violate the law. 
Because the minutes at issue were approved prior to the complaint being filed with the Board, we 
order no further remedial action.  
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaint that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mitch Cohen, Chair, Northborough Select Board  
(via email: mcohen@town.northborough.ma.us)  
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Northborough Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@town.northborough.ma.us) 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 