===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 22, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 94 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Tomeca Murphy 
Executive Assistant 
Office of the Rutland Town Administrator & Select Board 
tmurphy@rutlandma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Tomeca Murphy: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jennifer Leger on March 16, 2026,
1 alleging that 
the Rutland Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 13, and Board Chair Norman 
Anderson responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 25. The complaint alleges 
that the Board discussed a topic during its February 10 meeting that was not listed on the 
meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notices, minutes, 
and recordings of meetings the Board held on January 27, February 10, and February 24.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 22, the Board posted notice of a meeting to 
be held on January 27 at 6:30 P.M. The notice included several topics, including “6. Town 
Planner – Update on Status of Town Planner Position” (bold in original). 
 
1 All dates are in 2026, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the January 27 meeting can be found at https://youtu.be/zq16BzZM4tY?si=J-f_vhpdN-zn7mTO; a 
recording of the February 10 meeting can be found at https://youtu.be/TZW22gRPIVc?si=5jG_IWlESX1oM6o0; a 
recording of the February 24 meeting can be found at https://archive.org/details/rctvma-LIVE_Planning_Board_-
_February_24_2026. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The January 27 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board received an 
update from Rutland Town Administrator Heather Butler about the vacant Town Planner 
position. Ms. Butler explained that she supports the need for a Town Planner but that the position 
should remain vacant until after the annual Town meeting in May as it may be subject to budget 
cuts if an override did not pass. The Board and Ms. Butler discussed their shared budget 
concerns and the imminent need for a Town Planner, with Chair Norman Anderson stating that 
“we just need a little bit of patience.” 
 
On February 4, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 10. The 
notice included five topics: approval of the January 27 meeting minutes, “Flood Plain Bylaw,” 
“Stone Wall Violation,” “Active Subdivision Reports,” and “Purchase of Office Furniture.” No 
reference to the Town Planner position was included in the notice. 
 
The February 10 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, Board member Tim 
Nahrwold, who did not attend the January 27 meeting, expressed his frustration with the decision 
not to hire a Town Planner for the current fiscal year. He recommended that the Board utilize the 
appropriated, but unused, Town Planner salary funds to hire an outside consultant who could 
assist the Board while the Town Planner position remained vacant and was prepared to make 
such a motion. Board Executive Assistant Tomeca Murphy advised the Board that it should not 
act on any matters that were not listed on the notice. The Board agreed to add the matter to the 
notice of its next meeting on February 24. 
 
 On February 19, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 24. The 
notice listed seven topics, two of which were listed as follows: “2. Town Planner Position – 
Continued Discussion of Vacant Position” and “3. Open Meeting Law Complaint – Review 
Complaint Filed Against the Planning Board” (bold in original). 
 
The February 24 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board again 
discussed the vacant Town Planner position. Mr. Nahrwold indicated that he would like to see 
the position increase from 32 to 40 hours per week while other Board members felt the position 
should remain vacant given the uncertainty of whether the town budget would pass at the Town 
Meeting in May. Ultimately the Board decided to “hold off” on hiring an interim Town Planner. 
The Board then reviewed and discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here. Chair 
Anderson asserted that no violation had occurred as he believed that the Board’s discussion of 
the Town Planner position during the January 27 meeting was “pretty thorough,” and as such 
“didn’t anticipate” further discussion of the matter during the February 10 meeting. The Board 
agreed to participate in future Open Meeting Law training and directed Executive Assistant 
Murphy to draft a response to the complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2025-25; 2015-35; 
OML 2013-39.3 
 
A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in advance of the meeting. 
See OML 2025-25.
4 When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether it was 
reasonably anticipated by the chair for discussion at the particular meeting at issue. See OML 
2024-6; OML 2023-101; OML 2022-203. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair 
of a public body guess what will occur at a meeting nor anticipate the course of deliberations. 
See OML 2025-11; OML 2024-180; OML 2021-39; OML 2018-134. Even where the chair 
considers that a topic is of interest to the public body and may be discussed at some time, it need 
not be included on the notice if the chair does not anticipate that it will be discussed at the 
meeting for which the notice is posted. See OML 2024-180; OML 2023-101; OML 2019-26. 
 
 Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
the Town Planner position during the February 10 meeting where the meeting notice did not 
include such a topic. The complainant suggests that because this matter was discussed at the 
January 27 meeting, the Chair knew of the matter in advance and could have anticipated its 
discussion such that it should have been listed on the notice. We find that discussion of the Town 
Planner position during the February 10 meeting was not anticipated by the Chair. Indeed, during 
the February 24 meeting, Chair Anderson specifically stated that he “didn’t anticipate” further 
discussion of the matter during the February 10 meeting as he believed that the Board already 
“had a pretty thorough discussion” on the matter. As such, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law when it discussed the vacant Town Planner position during the February 
10 meeting. See OML 2025-11 (finding no violation where the Vice Chair of a public body made 
unanticipated comments that strayed from the notice topics). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 While a public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the meeting notice, the Attorney 
General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of unanticipated 
topics that might be of significant interest to the public so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future 
meeting. See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-131; OML 2013-87. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Ian Harvey, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Jennifer Leger  
Anita K. Carlson, Rutland Town Clerk (via email: acarlson@rutlandma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
