===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 26, 2018
OML 2018-141
Karis North, Esq.
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney North:
This office received a complaint from Christopher Donovan, dated August 13, alleging 
that the Norwood Airport Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on May 14, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated June 5. In his complaint, Mr. Donovan alleges 
that a quorum of the Commission deliberated outside of a noticed meeting, and that the 
Commission maintains an exclusionary sign-in policy for its meetings.2
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed an e-mail 
from the Commission’s legal counsel dated June 6.3 Finally, we spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on October 3, and we spoke with the Commission’s legal counsel by telephone on 
October 16.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Separately, on April 24, the complainant e-mailed to the Commission a document described as an “Open Meeting 
Law complaint,” asserting various failures related to executive session meeting minutes. This document did not 
include the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law complaint form. See 940 CMR 29.05(1) (“A public body need 
not address a complaint that is not filed using the Attorney General's complaint form.”). Because this complaint was 
not properly filed with the Commission, we decline to review its allegations now. Nevertheless, we note that the 
complainant subsequently sought relief with the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records Division relating 
to the Commission’s alleged failure to release executive session meeting minutes. We take this opportunity to 
remind the parties that allegations concerning violations of the Open Meeting Law should be directed to our office 
rather than to the Supervisor of Public Records.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-members public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Town of Norwood and the Commission are involved in 
ongoing litigation concerning the operation of the Norwood Memorial Airport. As part of this 
litigation, several Commission members have been deposed. The complainant has not provided 
us with precise dates of these depositions, but the depositions at issue appear to have been 
conducted in 2016 and 2017. During these depositions, the complaint alleges, certain 
Commission members made references to unnoticed meetings that took place concerning the 
litigation.
Separately, since 2017, the Commission has maintained a policy requesting that attendees 
at Commission meetings sign in using a specified sheet of paper. The policy states, “If someone 
chooses not to complete the sign-in sheet, then the Chairman (or Airport Manager) will make 
notes of those who attended but declined to complete the sign-in sheet.”
DISCUSSION
I. The Commission Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Noticed Meeting.
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate “much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
“deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority 
of the members of the public body, “unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, 
executive order or other authorizing provision.” Id
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Commission deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. The complaint states that this allegation is based on information that was disclosed 
during several depositions that have taken place over the past few years. Generally, the 
complainant stated to our office that Commission members met “four or five times” over the past 
several years, but the complaint does not provide any dates on which these meetings are alleged 
to have taken place, nor does it state which members partook in these alleged meetings.4 In its 
response, the Commission denies that a quorum deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s version of the facts. See OML
4 We note that the complainant is in possession of transcripts of the depositions at issue. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that complaints be filed with a public body within 30 days of the date of an alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1). If the alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the 
complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could 
reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). It is not apparent that any complaint relating to statements 
made during the depositions at issue was timely filed with the Commission.
2

===PAGE 3===
2017-169. Because the complainant did not identify dates of alleged violations and does not 
clearly allege which members—let alone a quorum—deliberated outside of a noticed meeting, 
we find that the Commission did not violate the law with respect to this allegation. See OML 
2017-168.
II. The Commission’s Sign-In Policy Does Not Violate the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well 
as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015- 
38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.
Here, the complaint alleges that the Commission’s sign-in policy violates the Open 
Meeting Law because it creates a chilling effect on citizens who wish to attend Commission 
meetings. We disagree. By its own terms, the sign-in policy did not prevent members of the 
public from attending meetings. The policy clearly anticipates that signing in is voluntary, as it 
provides for the chair to make note of attendees who decline to sign in. Because the sign-in 
sheet poses no practical barriers to members of the public wishing to attend a meeting, we find 
that the policy at issue did not violate the Open Meeting Law.5 See OML 2018-138 (Where a 
public body requests individuals to wait outside during an open meeting, and they do so 
voluntarily, those individuals are not improperly excluded from an open meeting.)
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Christopher Donovan
Norwood Airport Commission
5 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Commission adopted the sign-in policy without proper disclosure 
to the public, we note that the Commission voted to approve the sign-in sheet policy during an open session held on 
June 15, 2017.
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
