===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 4 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Elisabeth C. Goodman, Esq.  
Cain Hibbard & Myers PC. 
EGoodman@cainhibbard.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goodman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christian Tobin, Fire Chief of the Dalton Fire 
District, on September 23, 2024,
1 alleging that the Dalton Fire District Board of Water 
Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 13, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by email on August 24. The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s 
August 8 meeting was insufficiently specific.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and minutes of the Board’s 
August 8 meeting.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also includes an allegation regarding the destruction of audio recordings of Board meetings. The 
Complainant raised a similar allegation in another Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board on August 1. 
In our determination resolving the August 1 complaint, OML 2025-3, we explain that the Open Meeting Law does 
not require a public body to audio or video record its meetings, nor does the Open Meeting Law address the 
retention of such recordings. Rather, the retention of recordings of meetings is governed by the Municipal Records 
Retention Schedule. Municipal Records Retention Schedule, § 01.080.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
August 8. The notice included the following topic:  
 
1. General Business 
 
a. To discuss complaints against Chief Tobin. 
 
On August 8, the Board convened its meeting as scheduled. Fire Chief Christian Tobin 
was present at the meeting, as were at least six members of the public.
3 During the meeting, 
Attorney Elisabeth Goodman explained that she had interviewed several employees who had 
complained about Chief Tobin’s conduct, including some who complained of being harassed, 
intimidated, and yelled at. In addition to these complaints, Attorney Goodman explained that 
several members of the fire department had signed a letter “raising serious concerns about [Chief 
Tobin’s] conduct.” Thereafter, Board members discussed concerns they had about Chief Tobin’s 
job performance. At the end of this discussion, Board Chair James Driscoll made a motion to 
place Chief Tobin on administrative leave.
4  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, notice be posted for 
“every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include the date, time, and place of the meeting, 
as well as a list of topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, 
reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance, will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.5 Public bodies must list topics for discussion with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A notice need not include every detail about an anticipated 
discussion, but the Law requires that notice topics include “sufficient specificity” so that the 
public can decide whether to attend the meeting and observe the discussions regarding the 
specific topics anticipated for discussion. See OML 2023-108; OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7. 
When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we 
do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we 
review what was discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific. See 
OML 2015-101.  
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to both Fire Chief Christian Tobin and Attorney Elisabeth Goodman in the third 
person. 
4 The minutes indicate that two motions were made during the August 8 meeting—first to place Chief Tobin on 
administrative leave and second to adjourn the meeting. However, the minutes do not record any votes or otherwise 
indicate whether these motions were acted upon. We remined the Board that its meeting minutes must include, 
among other things, “the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We strongly recommend that the Board amend the minutes of its August 8 meeting to record 
the result of any votes taken during the meeting, or to otherwise record any decisions made or actions taken during 
the meeting.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice topic “To discuss complaints against Chief Tobin” 
lacked “sufficient detail to inform the public about the specific topics or issues that would be 
addressed at the meeting.” The complaint further alleges that failure to include additional detail 
about the specific complaints discussed during the meeting denied the public and Chief Tobin 
“the opportunity to be adequately informed and prepared.”  
 
After review of the meeting notice and minutes, we find that the notice topic “To discuss 
complaints against Chief Tobin” was sufficient to inform the public that the Board would discuss 
complaints against Chief Tobin. Compare OML 2022-150 (finding the notice topic “Discussion 
and possible vote regarding complaint against members of the Abington Conservation 
Commission” sufficient where it informed the public that the board would discuss a complaint 
against members of the commission), with OML 2017-187 (finding the notice topic “Resident 
Complaints” insufficient to inform the public that the board would discuss a particular complaint 
made by a particular resident). Although we appreciate that including additional detail in the 
meeting notice may have assisted Chief Tobin in preparing for the meeting, the Open Meeting 
Law’s requirements concern informing the public of the topics anticipated for discussion at a 
meeting and do not require the level of detail suggested by the complaint.
6 We find that the 
notice for the Board’s August 8 meeting contained sufficient specificity to comply with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 We offer no opinion as to whether Chief Tobin’s employment contract or any other law or provision outside of our 
purview entitled him to additional information regarding the complaints prior to the August 8 meeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: James Driscoll, Chair, Dalton Fire District Board of Water Commissioners  
(via email: James.Driscoll@daltonfiredistrict.org)  
Melanie Roucoulet, Treasurer/Clerk  
(via email: Melanie.Roucoulet@daltonfiredistrict.org) 
Heather Hunt, Town Clerk (via email: hhunt@dalton-ma.gov) 
Christian Tobin (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
