===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-22( 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 13, 2015 
OML 2015-171 
Robert B. Hanson, Town Administrator 
Town of Ashby 
895 Main Street 
Ashby, MA 01431 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Mr. Hanson: 
This office received a complaint from G. Lillian Whitney, dated August 24, alleging that 
the Ashby Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 14, and the Board 
responded by letter dated August 21. In her complaint, Ms. Whitney alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting a meeting notice with an inaccurate start time; 
and (ii) failing to provide sufficient information about an anticipated executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to indicate the name of the nonunion personnel to be discussed during an executive session. 
However, the meeting notice at issue included an accurate start time. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also spoke with Town Administrator Robert B. Hanson 
by phone on October 13.3 Finally, we reviewed the notices for Board meetings held on July 29 
and August 12, and we reviewed, in camera, the minutes of an executive session held on July 29. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on July 29. The notice for this 
meeting listed an anticipated executive session "to Conduct Contract Negotiations with Non-
union Personnel." No further information was given. During the July 29 meeting, the Board 
voted to enter executive session, "to Conduct Contract Negotiations with Non-Union Personnel." 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board did not advertise a vacant position and that it unnecessarily reinstated a 
police sergeant. These allegations, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, We 
therefore decline to review them. See OML 2014-98. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
Again, no further information was given. While the minutes of the July 29 executive session 
have not yet been released, we note that the Board engaged in contract negotiations with a Town 
employee. 
The Board held another meeting on August 12. The notice for this meeting was posted 
by the Town Clerk on August 6. The notice stated that the meeting would start at 9:00 A.M., and 
the meeting began at that time. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law provides that notice of every meeting must be 
posted "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays," and that every notice shall include "the date, time and place of such meeting, and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies must list the topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). 
The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter executive session and conduct 
deliberations outside of public view for ten specific purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
appropriate purpose for executive session is, "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). When a public 
body enters into a Purpose 2 executive session, the body generally must identify the specific 
nonunion employee or employees with whom it is negotiating. See OML 2014-90; OML 2014-
50; OML 2011-56. This information must be included unless doing so would compromise the 
public body's negotiating position. See OML 2015-37. While we generally defer to public 
bodies' assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for 
an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim 
if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the July 29 meeting notice provides insufficient detail 
about the anticipated executive session. Neither the notice nor the verbal statement made prior to 
entering executive session identified the nonunion personnel to be discussed. The Board has not 
identified a specific harm that would have occurred if the personnel had been identified. We 
therefore conclude that the Board's negotiating position would not have been harmed by the 
disclosure of this information, and we find that its omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2015-132. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board changed the time of the August 12 meeting, 
from 12:00 P.M. to 9:00 A.M., with less than 48 hours' notice. Our investigation revealed no 
facts to support this allegation. Because the notice posted on August 6 listed a 9:00 A.M. start 
time, and, indeed, the meeting began at that time, we find that the Board complied with this 
aspect of its notice posting obligations under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide sufficient information on a meeting notice regarding an anticipated executive 
session topic. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. Because the Board failed to follow proper procedure in convening its July 29 
executive session, the Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for 
continuing to withhold the minutes of that executive session. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f) (minutes 
of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held 
in compliance with the Open Meeting Law). However, attorney-client privilege or one or more 
exemptions under the Public Records Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or any 
portion thereof, from disclosure. Id 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: G. Lillian Whitney 
Ashby Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 