===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 112 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq.  
Rockland Land Use Counsel 
Galvin & Galvin, PC 
rwgalvin@galvin-legal.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mary Parsons on December 27, 2024, alleging that 
the Rockland Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 21, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 4. The complaint alleges that 
during the Board’s November 19 meeting, Chair Robert Rosa threatened to “bounce people off 
of the meeting if they do not give their full name to view the meeting,” and that the Chair “did 
not poll the Board members to properly adjourn the Board meeting.” 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when Chair 
Rosa required members of the public to display their full first and last name in order to access the 
Board’s November 19 meeting. We do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and video recording of the 
meeting held on November 19.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On November 6, the Board posted notice for a meeting 
to take place remotely on November 19. The notice included a Zoom link for the public to access 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEDlhv9DIPg.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the meeting; no other meeting access information was included on the notice. After the Zoom 
meeting room was opened for attendees to join, but before the meeting was convened, Chair 
Rosa announced that attendees must display their full name or “if you don’t change it, I’m going 
to have to bounce you.” Chair Rosa repeated the announcement four minutes before the meeting 
was convened. Chair Rosa stated that the “rules of the meeting is that your name has to be on 
screen. It cannot be a fake name or someone else’s name; it has to be your name.” He then 
identified attendees on the Zoom who he stated needed to change their display name and stated 
that “within the first few minutes of the meeting” if the names were not changed he would 
“bounce them.” It is understood that by “bounce,” Chair Rosa meant to remove attendees from 
the Zoom meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the Chair required attendees to 
provide their full name in order to attend the Board’s November 19 meeting. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and 
accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”); OML 2023-10. Except in 
circumstances where a public body is enforcing a reasonable, consistently-applied security 
policy, it is not appropriate for a public body to require members of the public to identify 
themselves in order to attend a meeting. See OML 2025-73; OML 2024-164 (security policy 
requiring photo identification for all visitors entering government offices could be enforced as to 
persons entering offices to attend public meeting; OML 2015-92 (same). Moreover, security 
policies may not be used as pretext for unlawfully excluding certain members of the public from 
an open meeting, and we look at security restrictions with a critical eye and generally discourage 
any policy that excludes interested members of the public. See OML 2024-164; OML 2015-92.    
 
Here, Chair Rosa informed attendees that if they did not display their full name they 
would be removed from the meeting. By repeatedly informing members of the public that they 
would be removed from the Zoom meeting—which was the only method for accessing the 
November 19 meeting—if they did not display their full first and last name, Chair Rosa placed 
an impermissible condition on attendance at the meeting and violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by requiring members 
of the
 public to display their full name in order to attend the meeting, we note that requiring 
members of the public to identify themselves in order to participate in public comment would not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation; rather, the Law gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide 
whether to permit public comment during a meeting, and if public comment will be permitted, to 
set restrictions on public comment. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g) (“No person shall address a meeting 
of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, 
be silent.”); see also OML 2023-41; OML 2020-9; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-
78. Therefore, establishing parameters for public comment, including requiring interested 
speakers to identify themselves or even sign up in advance, would not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2018-116. 
===PAGE 3===
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the meeting concluded
without a vote to adjourn.
The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the
meeting concluded suddenly without a vote to adjourn. The Board explained that a technical
issue occurred where the Zoom platform suddenly and inexplicably terminated the Zoom
meeting at 11:45 P.M.; the Board was unable to reconnect or restart the meeting. The Open
Meeting Law does not require a vote to adjourn the meeting of a public body. See OMI 2024-
176; OML 2024-9. Although a vote provides a practical way to collectively end a meeting, it is
not a requirement of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; see also OML 2019-7.
Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the meeting abruptly ended
without any vote.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board Violated the Open Meeting Law
when the Chair required attendees to display their full name to attend the meeting. We find that
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law the other ways alleged. We order immediate
and future compliance with the law's requirements and we caution that similar future violations
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board of with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carie benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern
CC:
Liza Landy, Town Clerk (via email: llandy@rockland-ma.gov)
Robert Rosa, Chair (via email:
Mary Parsons (via email:
3
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 