===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 16, 2016 
OML 2016-111 
E. Renee Le Fevre 
General Counsel 
Boston Redevelopment Authority 
One City Hall Square 
Boston, MA 02201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Le Fevre: 
This office received a complaint from Collique Williams and Tara Venkatraman on 
November 10, 2015, alleging that the Boston Redevelopment Authority Board (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges 
that, during its August 13, 2015 meeting, the Board did not adequately accommodate 
members of the public, some of whom were not permitted into the meeting room. 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board specifically excluded a group in opposition 
to a project on the agenda, who were mostly people of color, from the meeting. Finally, the 
complaint alleges that the Board did not permit public comment on a particular topic and did 
not allow members of the public to submit written petitions in opposition. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about September 11, 2015, and you responded, on behalf 
of the Board, by letter dated October 2, 2015. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Additionally, we have found no substantiation for the allegation that the Board specifically 
excluded members of the public because of their race. 
In reaching this decision, we reviewed the original complaint; the response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of 
the Board's August 13, 2015 meeting, as well as video recordings of portions of that meeting. 
Finally, we spoke by telephone with the parties several times in February and March 2016. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 13, 2015, the Board held a meeting in its 
usual location, the Kane Simonian Room in City Hall. One topic for discussion on the notice, 
posted on August 11, 2015, was a proposed project for the construction of a mixed-use 
retail/residential development at 3200 Washington Street in Jamaica Plain. This was a topic 
for Board discussion only; the Board was not holding a public hearing. The complainants 
were part of a group of residents who were mostly people of color (the "Group") who 
opposed approval for this development proposal and came to the meeting to voice their 
concerns. A month earlier, about 200 people had gone to City Hall to demonstrate their 
opposition to the project. Additionally, the Group had sent petitions, letters and emails to the 
Board, opposing the project. Two days prior to the meeting, on August 11, 2015, numerous 
members of the Group called Board staff to notify them that they planned on attending the 
meeting. In preparation for an anticipated larger-than-usual audience, the Board asked City 
Hall to provide two security officers for their meeting, a measure that it takes when a larger-
than-usual crowd is expected at a particular meeting. The Board did not attempt to re-locate 
its meeting, however, noting that it had three public hearings scheduled on other projects that 
required separate notice procedures, including the publication of notices in various 
newspapers at least 10 days before the public hearing. Additionally, the Board's usual 
meeting room has historically been sufficient to accommodate the public. 
The meeting began at 5:30 PM. Some of the members of the Group arrived at the start 
of the meeting and were allowed into the meeting room. A majority of the Group— 
approximately 30 people—anived within the next 30 minutes, at which time the door to the 
meeting location was closed and security personnel stood in front of the door. When the 
majority of the Group arrived, security personnel permitted two or three people from the 
Group into the meeting room, and then announced that the room was at capacity and that no 
one else would be permitted entrance until others left the room. A number of other people 
who were not members of the Group were also standing in the hallway and were denied 
access. Per usual, the Board meeting streamed a live broadcast on a closed-circuit television 
in the hallway just outside the room. The Group contends that some people did not see the 
television and others could not hear the sound. Security personnel contend that they pointed 
out the television monitor to the Group; a contention that the complainants deny. 
As the Board began its discussion of the 3200 Washington Street project, a majority of 
the Group remained outside the meeting room because security personnel told them that the 
room was filled to capacity. Some of the people in the hallway began chanting.1 Inside the 
room, approximately 70 people sat in chairs and approximately 20 people stood along the 
wall. At one point during this discussion, four people left the meeting room. Security 
personnel then informed the Group that five to seven new people could enter the room. The 
Group contends that the room had capacity to allow more than five people at that time and 
that security personnel deliberately blocked their entrance. No member of the Group accepted 
the offer to enter the room. Security personnel then permitted five other people who were not 
1 At one point, security personnel denied one member of the Group's request to enter the meeting room in order 
to submit written petitions to the Board. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
members of the Group into the room. All but one of these people had business before the 
Board later in the meeting.2 Approximately 30 people from the Group remained in the 
hallway during the Board's discussion of the 3200 Washington Street project. 
The Board allowed public comment during the public hearings for other projects. The 
Board did not hold a public hearing for the 3200 Washington Street project, however, and 
therefore did not allow public comment during its discussion of this project, even after one 
member of the public asked to be heard. Instead, Board Chair Timothy Burke acknowledged 
the numerous petitions that the Board had received concerning the project. Following a 
discussion between the Board and the project's representatives, the Board passed several 
measures pursuant to the Boston Zoning Code. The members of the Group left the meeting at 
the conclusion of this discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.3 
I. The Board Took Reasonable Steps to Accommodate the Anticipated Crowd. 
Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual crowds. 
See OML 2016-54; OML 2012-66. When a public body learns in advance that a meeting is 
expected to draw a particularly large crowd, that body should make reasonable efforts to 
accommodate all people who wish to witness the discussion. OML 2015-92. Here, in the two 
days leading up to the meeting, various members of the Group notified the Board, via its staff, 
that a large number of people planned to attend the meeting, although the Group did not 
provide the Board with a precise number of people. 
In an effort to manage a larger-than-usual crowd, the Board took the additional 
measure of asking City Hall to provide a security detail at its meeting to control the entrance 
to the meeting room. To accommodate those members of the public who were in attendance 
but outside the meeting room, the Board provided a television which streamed live video and 
sound feed of the meeting. 
While the Board anticipated a large crowd at this particular meeting, the Board's usual 
meeting location had historically accommodated the public. Moreover, nothing indicated to 
the Board that its standard television monitor in the hallway would not be sufficient for a 
2 We note that most or all of these individuals were white. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
possible overflow crowd to be able to observe and hear the Board's discussion, if necessary. 
We find that the Board took reasonable steps to accommodate an anticipated crowd under the 
circumstances and in accordance with our general guidance to public bodies. See OML 2012-
66. Accordingly, we find no violation of the law. However, given the concerns raised by the 
complainants that the television in the hallway was not conspicuous or audible to all members 
of the public in attendance, we recommend in the future that the Board ensure that the public 
can clearly see and hear the television monitor, or alternatively, that the Board move the 
meeting location to accommodate any anticipated larger-than-usual crowd. Id 
As for the complainants' allegation of racial discrimination, we reviewed the facts and 
consulted with our Civil Rights Division. As part of our investigation, we spoke with the 
complainants, as well as Board counsel, who interviewed members of the Board's staff and 
City security personnel. Following our review, we are unable to substantiate this allegation. 
Several factors led us to this conclusion. First, the Board allowed members of the Group who 
arrived at the start of the meeting at 5:30 P.M. into the meeting room. Second, at one point 
during the meeting, security invited five to seven members of the Group who were in the 
hallway into the meeting room. It was not until after those members declined to enter that 
security personnel invited five other people in, most of whom were white and had other 
business before the Board that evening. We appreciate that the complainants felt unfairly 
excluded when other people were let into the meeting; however, we find no evidence that the 
Board specifically excluded anyone from its meeting based on race. Accordingly, the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
11. The Board Did Not Violate the Open MeetinR Law by Limiting Public 
Participation During its Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "no person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a 
public body to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. See OML 
2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. Here, the complainants allege that it was improper 
for Chairman Burke to limit public comment during its discussion of the 3200 Washington 
Street project. It is within the Chair's discretion to limit public participation during a meeting, 
and thus he did not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so here. However, we encourage 
public bodies to allow public participation during meetings whenever possible. See OML 
2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. Additionally, we do not find that the Board specifically excluded members of the public 
because of their race. We commend the complainants for taking the important step of calling 
ahead to inform the Board that they would be attending the meeting with a large group. That 
the complainants and others were unable to access the meeting space is a deeply unfortunate 
result, and one we hope will be avoided in the future. Although we find no violation of the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
law, we commend the complainants for bringing the complaint forward in a detailed and well-
reasoned manner. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Collique Williams 
Tara Venkatraman 
Boston Redevelopment Authority 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
Sincerely, 
danne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
5 