===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 21, 2015 
OML 2015-192 
Gordon Clark, Chair 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Clark: 
This office received a complaint from Sue Lisio, dated November 18, alleging that the 
Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 20, and the Board 
responded by letter dated October 29. In her complaint, Ms. Lisio alleges that the Board 
discussed a topic during a meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Board meeting held on October 13. Finally, we reviewed a letter sent to our office by Ms. Lisio, 
dated December 6. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board scheduled a meeting to be held on October 13. 
Because October 13 was a Tuesday, the notice was posted the previous Friday. The notice for 
this meeting contained, among other topics, "Board of Selectmen announcements, updates, and 
reports." Over the weekend, the Chair attempted to enter the Board offices, but because they 
were locked he could not do so.2 The Board held a meeting on October 13 as planned. During 
the meeting, in the time allotted for "Board of Selectmen announcements, updates, and reports," 
the Chair raised the topic of whether all Board members should have keys to the Board offices. 
The Board voted to direct the Town Administrator to provide copies of the key to all Board 
FACTS 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
members. The issue of who may have keys to the Board offices had previously been a subject of 
discussion during a September 29 Board meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the 
meeting notice did not state that the Board would discuss the issue of whether all Board members 
should have keys. In its response, the Board states that the Chair did not anticipate discussing 
this topic at the time the meeting notice was posted because the need for the key only became 
apparent during the ensuing weekend between the notice being posted and the October 13 
meeting. In her December 6 letter, Ms. Lisio argues that the topic of the keys was anticipated 
because it had been discussed at the September 29 meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the Chair list all topics he or she anticipates 
discussing at the time the meeting notice is created. G.L. c. 30A, §20(b). The fact that the issue 
of the keys had been discussed at an earlier meeting does not establish that the Chair anticipated 
discussing it, at the time the notice was created, during the October 13 meeting. Indeed, the 
Board's response provided us with an explanation of how the topic came to be discussed during 
the meeting at issue. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board's account of 
the facts. See OML 2014-144. It is not an Open Meeting Law violation for a public body to 
discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice, provided the Chair did not reasonably anticipate 
the discussion 48 hours prior to the meeting. See Attornev General's Open Meeting Law Guide. 
pg. 8, available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting; OML 2013-14; OML 2012-40. Here, 
because we find that the Chair did not anticipate discussing the issue of the keys at least 48 hours 
prior to the meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing it during the meeting at issue. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Sue Lisio 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 