===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 171 
 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110  
 
VIA EMAIL:  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Judith Ahern on July 27, 2021, alleging that the 
Wellfleet Select Board (the “Select Board”) and the Wellfleet Shellfish Advisory Board (“the 
Shellfish Advisory Board”) (collectively, “the Boards”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Boards on or around June 18, and 
you responded on behalf of the Boards by letter dated July 16.1 In her complaint, Ms. Ahern 
alleges that the Select Board deliberated during the Shellfish Advisory Board’s June 4 meeting, 
without posting notice of a meeting of the Select Board.  In particular, Ms. Ahern alleges that 
three out of the five Select Board members—a quorum—attended and spoke at the Shellfish 
Advisory Board’s June 4 meeting, deliberating at length during the Shellfish Advisory Board’s 
discussion and vote regarding whether to recommend to the Select Board a moratorium on 
shellfish grant licenses and extensions.  The Board does not dispute that three out of five 
members of the Select Board—Chair Michael DeVasto, Helen Miranda Wilson, and Ryan 
Curley—attended and spoke during the June 4 meeting, but denies that deliberation occurred. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that neither Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Boards, the Boards’ 
response, and the complaint filed with our office for review; the notice and minutes of the June 4 
meeting; and a video of the June 4 meeting.2 
 
1All dates refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video of the June 4 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6S0VGgN0a00. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).  The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  However, this 
definition includes several exceptions, including that the “attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at a meeting of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the 
open meeting law” shall not constitute a meeting, “so long as the visiting members communicate 
only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and 
do not deliberate.”  Id.  “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.   
A quorum of a public body may attend the meeting of another public body without 
posting notice so long as the visiting public body members listen and participate as members of 
the audience and do not deliberate.  See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-6.  When determining 
whether a quorum of a public body has deliberated while attending the meeting of another public 
body, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting body members were seated 
with the general public and whether they participated by open participation, and not in a special 
capacity as public body members.  See OML 2021-108; OML 2016-117; OML 2012-6.  We also 
consider whether the public body members in attendance appeared to direct their remarks 
primarily toward their fellow public body members in attendance, or whether the remarks were 
directed primarily at the public and the public body whose meeting was being attended.  See 
OML 2020-93; OML 2017-111. 
As a preliminary matter, we reject the Boards’ assertion that a quorum of the Select 
Board did not attend the Shellfish Advisory Board’s June 4 meeting because Select Board Chair 
Michael DeVasto recuses himself from all Select Board matters pertaining to shellfish matters 
due to a conflict of interest.  In making such an argument, the Board relies on Graham v. 
McGrail, 370 Mass. 133 (1976), which addressed whether an individual who is disqualified from 
participation due to a financial conflict of interest may count toward a quorum for purposes of 
determining whether the body has the votes, and therefore the power, to take official action.  
That case did not address the Open Meeting Law or the definition of “deliberation,” but rather 
considered the impact of the criminal conflict of interest statute on the validity of action taken, 
and we find the discussion inapposite here.  The Open Meeting Law never requires recusal or 
disqualification, but rather states that when a quorum of members of the public body engages in 
deliberation, it must do so only during a properly noticed meeting.  See OML 2016-99.  In other 
words, the Open Meeting Law does not address when recusal is required or the effect of recusals, 
but rather requires that a public body comply with the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of 
public body members is present and participates in a discussion on business within the body’s 
jurisdiction.   
Next, we consider whether the presence and participation of three Select Board members 
during the Shellfish Advisory Board’s June 4 meeting constituted deliberation, in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  First, the Open Meeting Law is clear that the mere presence of a quorum of 
a public body at a meeting or event is not improper, as long as there is no deliberation.  See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  Therefore, we consider whether the active participation of the Select Board 
members constituted deliberation.  We find that it did not.  Among the facts that support this 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
conclusion are that although the meeting was held remotely, an optional location was set up for 
members of the public to convene and watch and participate in the meeting remotely; none of the 
Select Board members gathered at this location but rather each accessed the meeting separately.  
In addition, the Shellfish Advisory Board Chair allowed extensive public comment during the 
meeting, lasting over two hours, with many members of the public called on to speak multiple 
times; the Select Board members who spoke did so in the same manner as the many other 
members of the public who were permitted to offer comment.  They waited to be called on; 
spoke in their personal capacities to express their personal views on the issue under 
consideration; and appeared to receive no special treatment nor were granted any particular 
deference.  Select Board Chair DeVasto expressly stated that he was attending the meeting in his 
personal capacity as a member of the shellfishing community, and not as a member of the Select 
Board; his comments clearly reflected his personal views as someone with a direct interest in the 
moratorium under consideration.  We note that at one point Select Board member Wilson and 
Select Board Chair DeVasto each spoke critically of portions of the other’s prior remarks; 
however, even those comments were directed to the Shellfish Advisory Board for the purposes of 
conveying the merits of their own personal views, and were not directed to each other.   
The complaint also is concerned with comments by Select Board members near the end 
of the meeting, after the Shellfish Advisory Board had voted and a question was raised regarding 
whether an alternate member’s vote should have been counted in the vote tally.  Although the 
Select Board members, among others, chimed in briefly regarding the treatment of an alternate 
member’s vote, here, too, we find their comments were offered in their personal capacities.  For 
example, Select Board member Wilson stated that she had served on the Shellfish Advisory 
Board for nine years, and she described how votes had been treated during her time on that 
Board.  Select Board member Curley read an excerpt from the Town Charter regarding the 
treatment of an alternate member.  In context, we find that these comments were directed to the 
Shellfish Advisory Board Chair and did not constitute deliberation by the Select Board.  Because 
we find that the three members of the Select Board who attended the Shellfish Advisory Board’s 
June 4 meeting did not deliberate during that meeting, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law by the Select Board. 
Finally, we find that the Shellfish Advisory Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
Although the complaint alleges that the Shellfish Advisory Board allowed the Select Board to 
deliberate during its meeting, such an allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation by 
the Shellfish Advisory Board, which properly posted notice for its own meeting. 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that neither the Select Board nor the Shellfish 
Advisory Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Boards.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Judith Ahern (via e-mail: ) 
 Wellfleet Select Board (via e-mail:  
 Wellfleet Shellfish Advisory Board (via e-mail: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
