===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 21, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 140 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received three complaints
1 from Casey Fleming alleging that the Oxford 
Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
first complaint was filed with the Board on or about October 21, 2021,2 and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated November 11. The second complaint was filed with the Board 
on or about January 3, 2022, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 
19, 2022. The third complaint was filed with the Board on or about February 5, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 24, 2022. 
 
The first complaint alleges that 1) the video recording of the Board’s September 21 
meeting was deleted; 2) the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting regarding the 
Town Manager’s annual evaluation and regarding the warrant for the October 6 Special Town 
Meeting; and 3) the Chair
3 “habitually misuses the open meeting law to maintain secrecy rather 
th[a]n its purpose of eliminating secrecy.”  
 
The second and third complaints were filed to provide further information with respect to 
the allegations raised in the first complaint; specifically, the allegations relating to deletion of a 
video recording of the Board’s September 21 meeting; deliberation regarding the October 6 
Special Town Meeting warrant; and the chair’s “habitual[] misuse[][of] the open meeting law.” 
 
1 Our office also received an earlier complaint from the Complainant dated September 16, 2021, which is the subject 
of a separate determination. 
2 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
3 At the time of the events relevant to the complaint the Chair of the Board was Dennis Lamarche.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Because the second and third complaints were filed to provide additional information with 
respect to the allegations in the first complaint, we refer to the three complaints collectively as 
“the complaint.” 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed the complaint. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, the 
requests for further review, additional communications and materials provided by both the 
Complainant and the Board, and the minutes for the Board’s September 21 meeting. 
Additionally, we communicated with Town Counsel via email several times.
4 
 
I. We Decli ne to Review the Allegation that the Recording of the September 21 
Meeting Was Deleted.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board’s September 21 meeting was recorded, but that the 
recording was later destroyed and therefore not provided to the Complainant when requested as 
part of a public records request. In response to an order from the Supervisor of Records within 
the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office, the Board explained that, although there was an 
attempt to record the September 21 meeting, due to technical problems the recording failed.  
 
The Open Meeting Law states that the minutes of any open session, the notes, recordings 
or other materials used in the preparation of such minutes and all documents and exhibits used at 
the session, shall be public records in their entirety. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). However, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that public bodies video or audio record their meetings, nor does it 
govern retention of video or audio recordings of meetings or a public body’s obligation to 
respond to requests for such recordings. Complaints involving public records requests or 
municipal records retention may be resolved by contacting the Supervisor of Records. Indeed, 
the existence and availability of a video recording of the September 21 meeting has been the 
subject of an appeal filed by the Complainant with the Supervisor of Records.  
 
Because an allegation that a video recording of the September 21 meeting was deleted, 
even if
 true, does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review this 
allegation. See OML Declination 5-4-21 (New Marlborough Cable Advisory Committee); see 
also OML 2020-75 (finding that a public body’s practice of destroying audio recordings of 
meetings once the minutes are approved did not violate the Open Meeting Law).5 
 
II. We Find No Violation with Respect to the Allegations that the Board Deliberated 
Outside of a Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when convened in executive session, 
“all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A “meeting” is 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s j
urisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. “Deliberation,” in turn, is defined broadly as any “oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. A “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. Finally, a public body may not use a non-
member to facilitate communication among a quorum of the public body on matters within its 
jurisdiction. See OML 2016-48.  
 
The Town Manager’s Evaluation  
 
First, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting regarding the Town Manager’s annual evaluation. The Board explains that the Chair 
received written evaluations of the Town Manager from each member of the Board individually 
and created a summary based on those individual evaluations. The Board further explains that 
neither the individual evaluations nor the summary was distributed to Board members until the 
Board’s September 21 meeting during which the Chair distributed his summary. We understand 
the Complainant’s primary concern to be that the Chair allegedly provided the evaluations or the 
summary to the Town Manager prior to the Board’s September 21 meeting.  
 
As explained above, the Open Meeting Law prohibits a public body from deliberating 
outsi
de of a properly noticed meeting. Deliberation is defined as any “oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis 
added). Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law applies only to public body members, it does not 
apply to individual officials. See OML 2021-105, n. 2. Here, the allegation is that the Board 
members’ evaluations were provided to a non-member, the Town Manager, prior to the 
September 21 meeting. Even if true, this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. Finally, although the Board may not use a non-member to facilitate communication among 
a quorum of the Board on a matter within its jurisdiction, there is no evidence suggesting that 
that is what occurred here. For these reasons, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting regarding the Town 
Manager’s evaluation.  
 
The Ci
tizen Petitions and Special Town Meeting Warrant 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting regarding two citizen petitions and the warrant for the October 6 Special Town Meeting. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that two citizen petitions containing eight proposed articles 
for the Special Town Meeting were submitted to the Board and the Town Clerk but were not 
discussed during the September 21 meeting at which the Board approved a warrant that did not 
include the proposed articles. The Complainant has explained that the proposed articles 
presented in the citizen petitions related to censuring the Town Manager, removing the Town 
Manager from office, and amending the Town’s bylaws to address transparency at meetings.  
 
In support of his allegation that the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting, the Complainant cites two main facts. First, the Town Manager, through private 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
counsel, made a public records request on September 16, for communications between, among 
others, Board member Meaghan Troiano and Board member Cheryll LeBlanc regarding “Town 
of Oxford matters,” which the request defined as including town meeting articles, citizen 
petitions, and the Town Manager. Second, on October 7 Ms. LeBlanc emailed the Chair asking 
that he include certain items on the notice for an upcoming meeting. The email reads, in relevant 
part, as follows: 
 
1) Motions for TM Warrant that did not make it to BOS for 10/6/2021 Meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION Purposes Only. I’d like to request Mark Reich [Town Counsel] 
attend the meeting so BOS Members can pose questions regarding the process of 
adding an item onto a warrant and if he can provide commentary as to what was 
wrong with the items that were presented but were not on the Warrant. This would 
be relative to the motions that were Express Mailed to me and were turned into 
Town Hall. 
 
 The Complainant asserts that the public records request is “is clear evidence of a corrupt 
intent [on the part of the Town Manager] to prevent the discussion of the citizen petitions in an 
open meeting through the intimidation of Board members who otherwise would not be expected 
to agree to same.” The Complainant asserts that the October 7 email is evidence “that 
communication took place outside of a meeting which conveyed to Selectm[a]n LeBlanc the 
belief that the petition warrant articles were invalid.” Finally, the Complainant asserts, without 
supporting information, that the Town Manager 1) communicated with a quorum of the Board 
outside of a meeting regarding the citizen petitions; 2) specifically communicated with the Chair 
and with Board member Michael Daniels regarding the citizen petitions; and 3) along with her 
counsel, “acted as a third party conduit for deliberation outside of an open meeting.” 
 
The Board has repeatedly denied that
  a quorum deliberated outside of a noticed meeting 
regarding the citizen petitions. Specifically, the Board asserts that the determination that the 
articles proposed in the citizen petitions were ineligible for inclusion on the Special Town 
Meeting warrant was made by the Town Manager, in consultation with Town Counsel. 
Additionally, the Board has represented to our office, through Town Counsel, that a quorum of 
the Board did not communicate in any manner outside of a properly noticed meeting regarding 
placement of the petitioned articles on the Special Town Meeting warrant. Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2017-93; 
OML 2016-141; See also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) 
(“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating 
public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”). Therefore, we do not find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with respect to the allegation that the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting.  
 
III. We Find No Violation with Respect to the Allegation that the Chair “Habitually 
Misuses the Open Meeting Law.” 
 
The complaint alleges that the Chair “habitually misuses the open meeting law to 
maintain secrecy . . . .” More specifically, the complaint alleges that the Chair 1) prohibited Ms. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Troiano from speaking during the September 21 meeting, including by asking her to leave the 
meeting and calling the police to have her removed when she did not leave; and 2) “routinely” 
fails to include topics on meeting notices that fellow Board members have requested be included. 
 
 First, with respect to the allegation that the Chair prohibited Ms. Troiano from speaking, 
asked her to leave the meeting, and then called the police to have her removed, we find no 
violation. Here, during the notice topic “Selectmen’s Community Announcement” Ms. Troiano 
began reading aloud a prepared statement regarding her thoughts on struggles facing the Board, 
including the fact that it had only four members at that time due to a vacancy, and her concerns 
about government transparency and overreach. As Ms. Troiano read her statement, the Chair 
asked her to stop speaking, stating that she was out of order and making inappropriate 
statements. Ms. Troiano continued to speak, and the Chair continued to state that she was out of 
order. The Chair then asked Ms. Troiano to leave the meeting a few times. Thereafter, the Chair 
stated he would contact the police to have Ms. Troiano removed; he then called the police. The 
police arrived, but ultimately Ms. Troiano was not removed from the meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law states, in part, that  
 
No person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, 
and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent. No person shall disrupt 
the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. If, after clear warning from the chair, 
a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may order the person to 
withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair may 
authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.  
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The t
 erm “person” in this section of the law applies to both members of the 
public and members of the public body. See OML 2013-135; OML 2020-134. Therefore, we find 
that the Chair did not violate the Open Meeting Law when he asked Ms. Troiano to cease 
speaking and even when he called the police to have her removed from the meeting after asking 
her to leave and warning her that he would call the police. 
 
Alt
hough the Chair acted within his discretion under the law, we strongly discourage the 
removal of properly seated public body members from meetings of public bodies. If, as occurred 
here, tensions escalate to a point where they interfere with the conduct of a meeting, a brief 
recess may be appropriate. Removal should be used only as a last resort. 
 
 Second, with respect to the allegation that the Chair “routinely” failed to include topics 
on meeting notices that fellow Board members requested be included, we again find no violation. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice for every meeting include, among other things, 
“a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). The Law does not require the chair to add topics to a notice that are requested by 
fellow members of the public body. Therefore, even if true, an allegation that the Chair has failed 
to include items on meeting notices requested by Board members does not constitute a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Dee Green, Administrative Assistant to the Oxford Board of Selectmen (via email: 
dgreen@oxfordma.us) 
Casey Fleming (via e-mail: )   
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
