===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 31, 2016 
OML 2016-147 
Kathleen M. O'Donnell, Esq. 
P.O. Box 234 
Milton, MA 02186 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney O'Donnell: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Striar, dated July 11, alleging that the 
Plymouth Community Preservation Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 
27, and the Committee responded by letter dated July 14. In his complaint, Mr. Striar alleges 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law on April 21 by: (i) posting an insufficiently 
detailed meeting notice, (ii) failing to follow proper procedure before convening in executive 
session, and (iii) entering executive session without a proper statutory purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice and failing to follow proper procedure before 
convening in executive session. However, we find that the Committee held the executive session 
at issue for a valid statutory puipose. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes—both open session and executive session—of a 
Committee meeting held on April 21. Finally, we spoke with the Committee's legal counsel by 
telephone on October 21.2 
We find the facts as follows. At issue is a Committee meeting held on April 21. The 
Committee posted notice of this meeting, but the notice does not indicate the time and date of 
posting. Among the other topics listed on the agenda was an anticipated discussion "to discuss 
an interest in real estate." No further description was given. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Committee held its April 21 meeting as planned. The minutes of the meeting show 
that the Committee members conducted a roll call vote before entering executive session. 
However, the minutes do not state whether the chair made a statement describing the purpose of 
the executive session, nor whether the chair stated if the meeting would resume in open session 
following the executive session. According to the complaint, the chair stated that the purpose of 
the executive session was to discuss real property. The Committee has publicly released the 
minutes of this executive session. They state, in their entirety, as follows: 
The Committee discussed the following projects: 
A.D. Makepeace Redhrook Area (two projects), Chapter 61 notice 
Church of the Pilgrimage 
Based on conversation with the Committee's counsel, we understand that during this 
executive session the Committee discussed the value of two pieces of property that the Town of 
Plymouth was considering purchasing. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee's April 21 Meeting Notice Did Not Indicate the Date and Time of 
Posting. However, the Description of the Executive Session was Sufficient. 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-15.3 The date and 
time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to 
"consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). When noticing an executive session under Purpose 6, a 
public body must provide some description of the property it intends to discuss, if such 
disclosure would not compromise the body's negotiating position. See OML 2016-128. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee's April 21 meeting notice lacked 
sufficient detail in two respects—it did not indicate the date and time at which it was posted, and 
it did not sufficiently describe the purpose of the anticipated executive session. Indeed, the 
notice did not indicate the date and time of posting. A public body is required to record both the 
date and time of posting on all meeting notices. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). This requirement serves 
an important function by allowing members of the public to observe whether the body has 
complied with the Open Meeting Law by posting the notice at least 48 hours prior to the 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in this 
respect. 
The notice stated that the Committee anticipated convening in executive session "to 
discuss an interest in real estate." The Committee reasonably believed that identifying the 
properties under discussion would increase the market value of the properties and would 
therefore compromise the Town's negotiating position. Accordingly, the Committee was 
entitled to omit this information from the meeting notice, see OML 2015-165, and we find no 
violation with respect to this allegation. However, we recommend that in the future, the 
Committee cite the specific statutory authority for its executive session, i.e., G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(6). 
II. The Committee Did Not Follow Proper Procedure Before Convening in Executive 
Session on April 21. However, the Chair Provided a Sufficient Description of the 
Executive Session. 
Prior to entering executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(b)(3). The chair must also publicly 
announce whether the open session will resume at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to follow proper procedure before 
convening in executive session, as the chair did not announce the purpose for the executive 
session with specificity, did not state that holding the discussion in open session would 
compromise the Committee's negotiating position, and did not state whether the meeting would 
continue in open session following the executive session discussion. The minutes do not include 
statements by the chair that holding the discussion in open session would compromise the 
Committee's negotiating position and whether the meeting would continue in open session 
following the executive session discussion. We find that the chair failed to make either of these 
required statements. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(6), (b)(4). This violated the Open Meeting Law. The 
chair was entitled to omit from the statement made prior to entering executive session any 
information that would compromise the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2015-110. 
Accordingly, we find that the chair's statement made prior to entering executive session that the 
Committee would discuss real estate matters was sufficiently detailed. However, the chair did 
not make the required statement that holding the discussion in public would compromise the 
Committee's negotiating position. G.L. e. 30A, § 21(a)(6). We also note with concern that the 
chair's statement was not recorded in the meeting minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (minutes 
must reflect the decisions and actions taken at all meetings). 
III. The Committee had a Valid Statutory Purpose for Convening in Executive 
Session on April 21. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee lacked a valid purpose for convening in 
executive session on April 21. We credit the statement from the Committee's legal counsel that 
the April 21 executive session conversation concerned the value of real estate being considered 
for purchase by the Town. As such, this discussion fit squarely within Purpose 6. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(6); OML 2014-136. We find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee's April 26 executive 
session minutes do not contain sufficient detail. A public body must create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes 
must contain enough detail for a reasonable member of the public who did not attend the meeting 
could read them and understand what occurred. See OML 2013-16; OML 2012-29. These 
minutes list only the general topics that were discussed. They do not state what discussion took 
place on each topic, including whether there was any substantive conversation or actions taken. 
We strongly advise the Committee to amend these minutes with further detail. See OML 2013-
157. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Striar 
Plymouth Community Preservation Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 