===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
April 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 46 
 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq.  
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: briley@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Meghan Glowacki on October 22, 2024, alleging 
that the Nantucket Select Board (the “Board”) and Nantucket Affordable Housing Trust (the 
“Trust”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board and Trust on October 9, 2024, and you responded, on behalf of the Board 
and Trust, by separate letters dated October 17, 2024, and October 29, 2024, respectively.  The 
complaint alleges that the Board and Trust deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting to 
draft a press release about a housing development project.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board and Trust did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s and Trust’s responses to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Trust meeting 
held on October 1, 2024, as well as the notice, minutes and video recording of the Board meeting 
held on October 2, 2024.
1  Finally, we communicated with you on March 11, 2025.2 
 
 
 
 
1 A video recording of the Board meeting held on October 2, 2024, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/live/GDLpWC9I1t4. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The Trust is a seven-member public body; thus, four members 
constitute a quorum. 
 
In 2018, Surfside Development (“Surfside”) applied to the Nantucket Zoning Board of 
Appeals (the “Zoning Board”) for a comprehensive permit to construct 156 dwelling units - 60 
single family homes and 96 condominiums, 25% of which would be designated as affordable 
units - on a 13-acre site at South Shore Road.  After conducting numerous public hearings, the 
Zoning Board issued a decision in June 2019, granting a comprehensive permit for the 
construction of 60 dwelling units - 40 single family homes and 20 condominiums.  In April 2023, 
the Select Board and Surfside advised residents that the parties planned to work collaboratively 
to construct a housing development project, i.e. Surfside Crossing, on South Shore Road that 
would be reserved for year-round residents of Nantucket.   
 
The Trust held a duly posted meeting on October 1, 2024.  During the meeting, Housing 
Director Kristie Ferrantella advised the Trust that Surfside modified its proposed development 
project on South Shore Road from 156 dwelling units, comprised of 60 single family homes and 
96 condominiums, to 156 condominiums.  Ms. Ferrantella stated that the Zoning Board would 
like the Trust to submit any written comments or recommendations about the modified project by 
November 14, 2024.  The Trust discussed its hope that the developers of Surfside Crossing 
remain committed to 75% of the units serving year-round residents of Nantucket and discussed 
the possibility of placing year-round occupancy restrictions on such units.   
 
The Board held a duly posted meeting on October 2, 2024.  During the meeting, the 
Board received public comment for approximately 30 minutes and heard from several 
individuals about Surfside Crossing and the Board’s lack of transparency with respect to the 
housing project.  Specifically, the complainant spoke during the public comment period, 
reviewed a timeline of events involving the housing development project, and suggested 
alternate uses for the site. 
 
On October 4, 2024, Ms. Ferrantella and Town Manager Libby Gibson issued a press 
release assuring residents that the “Town of Nantucket and the Affordable Housing Trust remain 
committed to supporting a project that will achieve the goal of having 75% of the units in 
Surfside Crossing restricted for year-round use.”  The press release explained the following: that 
in July, Surfside submitted an “options contract” for the Town to review and for the Select Board 
to consider at an upcoming meeting; that throughout the month of August, the Housing Director 
worked in collaboration with Town Administration and Town Counsel to analyze the contract 
and provide a staff recommendation; and that after failing to reach an agreement, Surfside 
withdrew the “options contract” and all parties concluded that using existing programs, such as 
the Closing Cost Assistance Program, the Year-Round Deed Restriction Pilot Program, or other 
future housing initiatives, would be the best approach to allow potential buyers to secure deed 
restrictions. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board and Trust must have deliberated outside of a 
proper
ly posted meeting to draft the press release.  Both the Board and Trust contend that 
Housing Director Ferrantella and Town Manager Gibson drafted the press release.  Individual 
public officials are not public bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2021-3.3  Although the Board admits that Chair Brooke Mohr participated in the drafting 
of the press release, any communications between Chair Mohr and Housing Director Ferrantella 
and/or Town Manager Gibson would not constitute improper deliberation.  See OML 2023-208.  
Town legal counsel Brian Riley asserted that no other member of the Board or Trust participated 
in the drafting of the press release and further confirmed that the press release was not shared 
with any member of the Board, other than Chair Mohr, nor was the press release shared with any 
member of the Trust prior to its release on October 4, 2024.  We find no evidence to the contrary 
and therefore credit the Board’s and Trust’s accounts of events.  See OML 2016-141 (absent 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s version of the facts).  As such, where a 
quorum of Board or Trust members did not participate in the drafting of the press release and the 
press release was not distributed to a quorum of the Board or Trust prior to its release, we find 
that there was no improper deliberation.  See OML 2024-140. 
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and Trust did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board or Trust.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meghan Glowacki – By email only:  
Nantucket Select Board – By email only: townadministration@nantucket-ma.gov  
Nantucket Affordable Housing Trust c/o Kristie Ferrantella, Housing Director – By email 
only: kferrantella@nantucket-ma.gov 
Nantucket Town Clerk – By email only: townclerk@nantucket-ma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
