===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-191 
Megan Sommer, Chair 
Scituate Commission on Disabilities 
600 Chief Justice Cushing Highway 
Scituate, MA 02066 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Sommer: 
This office received a complaint from John McLaughlin on October 6, alleging that the 
Scituate Commission on Disabilities (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on August 9, and 
the Commission responded by letter dated August 15. The complaint alleges that the 
Commission held a vote that was not listed on the July 12 meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes from, the Commission's June 14, July 12, 
August 9, and September 13 meetings. Finally, we spoke with the complainant on December 7; 
and reviewed video of the Commission's July 12, August 9, and September 13 meetings.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is a member of the Commission. During a 
June 14 meeting, the Commission tabled a discussion regarding the election of officers. The 
Commission indicated it would discuss such elections at the next meeting but may wait for new 
members to be appointed to the Commission before taking any action. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The video recording of the July 12 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sAgD6G70JRw; the 
video recording of the August 9 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uwR2RpCxj5o; and the 
video recording of the September 13 meeting is available at https://www.youtiibe.com/watch?v=KUTr7fcHU5o. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 12 at 7:30 P.M. The 
notice listed the topic, "Commission Election Discussion" under "Old Business." 
The July 12 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Commission 
discussed whether it could elect officers prior to the appointment of all candidates to the 
Commission. Member Athena Brodsky then made a motion to nominate Megan Sommer as 
Chair. The complainant and member Elaine Schembari asserted that the motion was out of order 
because the agenda only identified a discussion as the topic. The Commission discussed possible 
reorganization. Thereafter, the motion to appoint Ms. Sommer as Chair was seconded and the 
Commission voted by a majority vote to appoint her as Chair. The Commission then voted by a 
majority vote to appoint Michelle Murphy as Vice-Chair. 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 9 at 7:30 P.M. The 
notice listed the topic, "Commission Election Discussion" under "Old Business." 
The August 9 meeting was held as planned. At the beginning of the meeting, the 
complainant hand served an Open Meeting Law complaint upon the Commission, alleging that 
the election vote that took place at the July 12 meeting was improper.3 The Commission then 
reviewed and discussed the complaint; and unanimously voted to negate the elections that the 
Commission approved at the July 12 meeting and to "add to next month's agenda 'Election of 
Officers' along with a description or roles and responsibilities of the offices." The complainant 
abstained from voting. 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 13 at 7:30 P.M. 
The notice listed, among other topics, "Current Immediate Agenda Items." One specific topic 
listed under Current Immediate Agenda Items was "Election/Reorganization/Confirmation of 
Officers for 2017-2018." 
The September 13 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Commission 
discussed the various officer positions and the responsibilities of each position. The Commission 
then voted to appoint Ms. Sommer as Chair, Ms. Murphy as Vice-Chair, Jeff Dougan as 
Secretary, and Ms. Brodsky as Treasurer. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
3 Ms. Schembari filed a related Open Meeting Law complaint with the Commission during the August 9 meeting. 
However, that complaint is not before our office as the complainant was satisfied with the remedial action taken by 
the Commission. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 
The complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law because it 
voted to elect officers on July 12 but the meeting notice indicated that the Commission planned 
to merely discuss elections. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to anticipate 
the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic 
with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 
2014-38. We have previously found that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take 
action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the 
notice topic does not indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. Here, 
we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law where the vote flowed 
naturally from the Commission's consideration of the posted agenda item, such that the notice 
was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that occurred. See OML 2016-150; OML 
2014-132; OML 2013-145. 
We commend the Commission for taking prompt remedial action in response to the 
complaint. Where, as occurred here, a public body takes corrective action in response to a 
complaint, we strongly encourage complainants to consider whether filing a complaint with our 
office is necessary. See OML 2016-159. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: John McLaughlin 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 