===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 242 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Erin Gibbons 
Chair, Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org 
  
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Gibbons: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on October 16, 2023, alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about August 17, 2023, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated September 7.
1  The complaint 
alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum deliberated business 
(to wit, review of executive session minutes for possible release) outside of a noticed meeting.  
Mr. Harris also claims that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to discuss 
during an open meeting its process to ensure periodic review of executive session minutes, and 
by failing to announce its decisions relative to release of such minutes following review. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response and the request for further review.  We also reviewed 
documents appended to the complaint and response, including communication between the 
parties predating the complaint and minutes of the Committee’s meetings.  We also reviewed the 
complaints filed by Mr. Harris with the Committee dated May 8 and July 3.2 
 
  
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The merits of the complaints of May 8 and July 3 are not addressed herein. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  On May 7, Mr. Harris sent an email to the Committee, 
requesting unredacted minutes of all executive sessions that had not been released in their 
entirety.  On the next day, May 8, he filed a complaint on the grounds that the Committee failed 
to timely approve minutes of ten executive sessions.3  The Committee entered executive session 
on May 24 and again on June 7 to discuss Mr. Harris’s May 8 Complaint.  During these 
executive sessions, the Committee appointed two members to assist the interim chair in her 
review of executive session minutes.  Due to the high volume of executive session minutes to be 
reviewed, the work was divided between 3 members of the Committee (including the interim 
chair), based on dates of the executive sessions.   
 
On July 3, Mr. Harris filed a complaint alleging that the Committee failed to properly 
respond to his request for meeting minutes and failed to conduct periodic reviews of withheld 
executive session minutes.  The Committee responded to the July 3 complaint on July 24.
4  In its 
response, the Committee estimated that its members spent in excess of forty hours over the 
preceding two months reviewing executive session minutes and establishing a procedure to 
ensure that executive session minutes are periodically reviewed. 
 
Mr. Harris maintains that the Committee’s July 24 response reveals previously unknown 
violations of the Open Meeting Law distinct from and in addition to the violations alleged in his 
May 8 and July 3 complaints.  In the instant complaint, filed on August 17, Mr. Harris alleges 
that: 
 
• the review of executive session minutes occurred outside of a noticed meeting;  
• no meeting notice advised the public of the Committee’s plan to review executive 
session minutes;  
• the Committee has not announced in open session the outcome of its reviews of 
executive session minutes; and 
• the Committee has not discussed at open meeting the process to ensure periodic 
review. 
 
The complainant maintains that the Committee’s method of reviewing executive session 
minutes violates the Open Meeting Law because a quorum of the Committee met in private 
deliberation.
 5 
  
 
3 Upon review of the May 8 complaint, we found the Committee to be in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2023-170. 
4 The July 3 complaint is currently under review by this office. 
5 In his supplement dated October 31, Mr. Harris alleged that the Committee formed a three -member subcommittee 
when it assigned the task of reviewing executive session minutes to three Committee members.  According to the 
supplement, a quorum of that subcommittee deliberated regarding the release of executive session minutes, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  As this allegation was not raised in the complaint of August 17, we do not 
consider it here.  See, e.g., OML 2015-56 (declining to review allegations beyond scope of complaint filed with 
public body); OML 2013-99 (declining to review allegations not first raised with public body). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978); see also OML 2023-56.6   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body or its chair or designee, at reasonable 
intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of 
those minutes is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  At the meeting following each periodic 
review, the public body must announce which executive session minutes will be released and 
which will continue to be withheld, and such announcement must be included in the minutes.  Id.   
See also OML 2022-155.  A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for 
possible release is ongoing.  If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines 
that the purpose for the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be 
withheld from the public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired.  See OML 2022-
155; OML 2021-129.   
 
Additionally, upon request, a public body must respond to a request for executive session 
minutes within 10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  If the public body or a designee has 
determined, prior to the request, that certain executive session minutes may be released, it should 
respond to the requester directly, notifying him or her of the availability of those minutes.  See 
OML 2023-53; OML 2022-155.  And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not 
conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, 
the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its 
next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  OML 2022-
155. 
 
In his complaint of August 17, Mr. Harris alleges that the procedure followed by the 
Committee to address his request for executive session minutes violated the Open Meeting Law.7  
Specifically, he maintains that review of executive session minutes outside of a noticed meeting 
violated the Open Meeting Law.  He further alleges that the Committee has not announced its 
determination relative to release of executive session minutes.   
 
 The Open Meeting Law does not require that review of executive session minutes for 
release be conducted in a noticed meeting.  Review of executive session minutes by individual(s) 
other than a quorum of a public body has been noted in several of our prior determinations.  For 
example, in another case involving these same parties, a determination of whether to release 
executive session minutes required legal advice and an ongoing dialog with town counsel.  See 
OML 2016-153.  See also OML 2020-81 (city solicitor and city clerk designated to review 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
7 The allegations of procedural impropriety set forth in Mr. Harris’s August 17 complaint can be distinguished from 
the allegations of his July 3 complaint that the Committee failed to honor his request for meeting minutes and failed 
to conduct periodic reviews of withheld executive session minutes.  It was the Committee’s response to his July 3 
complaint that precipitated the instant complaint. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
executive session minutes); OML 2015-166 (public body’s administrative assistant consulted 
with counsel); OML 2013-99 (chair of Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed minutes).  Indeed, the 
statute itself authorizes a public body’s designee to review executive session minutes.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1).  Here, individual Committee members were assigned to specific sets of 
executive session minutes to review same for release.  Following initial review by individual 
members of the Committee, the meeting minutes were discussed by the Committee in executive 
session.  We do not find this procedure to violate of the Open Meeting Law. 
The complainant argues that the review process, involving three Committee members, 
necessarily would result in deliberation by a quorum.  However, Mr. Harris’s speculation, 
without more, that the three reviewing Committee members deliberated outside of a meeting 
cannot serve as the basis of a finding of a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  In its response to 
the complaint, the Committee explicitly denies that a quorum deliberated on the review of 
executive session minutes and explains that individual members separately reviewed different 
sets of minutes.  
Finally, the complainant alleges that the Committee has not announced in open session 
the outcome of its reviews of executive session minutes or a procedure to ensure periodic review 
of executive session minutes.  The notice for, and the minutes of, the Committee’s June 21 
meeting reference review of executive session minutes, to be conducted in executive session.  
Likewise, the notice and minutes of the July 19 meeting include review of executive session 
minutes as a subject of executive session.  Minutes of the July 19 and August 23 meeting reflect 
announcements in open session of the Committee’s determination regarding recently reviewed 
executive session minutes.  We have not undertaken an independent analysis of which executive 
session minutes have been reviewed, which release decisions have been announced in open 
session and which, if any, might remain outstanding.  Open Meeting Law complaints must allege 
violations with a degree of specificity; our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2021-129; OML 2016-57; OML 2012-106.  
Moreover, although public bodies are required to periodically review executive session minutes 
to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted, there is nothing within the 
Open Meeting Law that requires that a public body outline its review procedure during a 
meeting; the Law only requires that a public body announce the outcome of the review.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged in the complaint dated August 17.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland School Committee  (via email: school committee@waylandps.org)  
George Harris (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
 
