===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 19, 2013 
OML 2013 - 17 
Michael Fitzgerald 
Chair 
Brewster Finance Committee 
Brewster Town Hall 
2198 Main St. 
Brewster, MA 02631 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Fitzgerald: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Michael Gradone, dated 
February 2, 2012, alleging that the Brewster Finance Committee's Budget Subcommittee (the 
"Subcommittee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
specifically alleges that members of the Subcommittee circulated drafts of a report "by email 
among the three subcommittee members: on Oct. 19 and 22, and Nov. 14." The complaint was 
originally filed with the Finance Committee on or about January 9, 2012. The Finance 
Committee responded to the complaint by letter dated January 24, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during our investigation. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
exchanging drafts of a report over email. In reaching this determination we reviewed the January 
9, 2012 complaint; the January 24, 2012 response by the Finance Committee; and the February 2, 
2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed emails and attachments sent between 
three members of the Subcommittee between October 19, 2011 and December 14, 2011. Finally, 
we reviewed the minutes of the Subcommittee's September 9, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
The nine-member Brewster Finance Committee established a Budget Subcommittee in 
the Fall of 2011, consisting of three members: Herb Montgomery (chair), Greg Levasseur, and 
Dennis Hanson. The Subcommittee met one time, on September 9, 2011. During the meeting, 
the Subcommittee established its mission to "draft a document that will enhance the Budgetary 
===PAGE 2===
deliberation process of the Finance Committee." Following a discussion about ways to improve 
the budget process, Mr. Levasseur stated, "[g]ive me a couple of weeks to work on a draft 
document for you to look at and see if it is what we wish to say." 
On October 19, 2011, Mr. Levasseur sent an email with a draft of the Subcommittee 
report to the other two Subcommittee members. In the email, Mr. Levasseur asked the 
Subcommittee members to give "a quick look see and let me know if the direction is where you 
want to go. See you tonite [sic]." On October 22, 2011, Mr. Montgomery sent an email to the 
other two Subcommittee members with an attached draft of the report. Mr. Montgomery stated 
in his email that "here's my effort at this for your review, any changes or additions from me are 
in bold and underlined just to differentiate from Greg's draft. I'll be out of town from the 23`d  to 
the 30th  but I'm monitoring e-mail and will be available by cell phone so we can sort of discuss 
this if you choose." The attached report included a number of edits to the October 19, 2011 
draft, including adding four additional goals for the budget process. 
On November 12, 2011, Mr. Levasseur sent an email to the Subcommittee members with 
an updated draft of the report. In that email, Mr. Levasseur wrote "[if] this suits the 2 of you 
PLEASE forward to [Finance Committee Chair Michael Fitzgerald] for his ok to disburse to the 
team." Much of the editing consisted of changing the format of the memo, replacing bullet 
points with a narrative discussion. 
On November 14, 2011, Mr. Montgomery emailed the report to Finance Committee 
Chair Michael Fitzgerald, who then forwarded the report to the Finance Committee members, 
writing, "[p]lease find attached the draft report from the FINCOM subcommittee. Discussion is 
on our agenda for Wed." 
On November 17, 2011, Finance Committee Chair Fitzgerald sent an email to Town 
Administrator Charles Sumner, and copied the members of the Finance Committee. Chair 
Fitzgerald wrote that: 
During our discussion Mike Gradone raised a question regarding following open meeting 
law. The issue at hand was that I directed members to e-mail their suggested changes 
(individual to individual) to the chair of the subcommittee for a revised report to be 
discussed at our next meeting. Mike stated if we used e-mail that was in violation of the 
open meeting law. I stated I disagreed as it was my understanding that if there was no 
discussion "back and forth" and that the report was to be reviewed at our next meeting we 
were OK. He disagreed. Based on the fact that with all the sensitivity and emotion 
surrounding the topic to avoid any potential conflicts I decided not to use e-mail. 
Comments were taken and the subcommittee will draft a revision. In order to avoid these 
potential conflicts, I am requesting [a] legal opinion on the use of emails as a 
Communication tool related to the open meeting law. It needs to be understood that our 
objective is to efficiently move the process along as well as have an open discussion and 
allow public input. 
Later on November 17, 2011, Mr. Levasseur sent an email to the Subcommittee members 
with an attached draft of the report, suggesting minor changes. Mr. Levasseur wrote, "let's 
number the pages of the report and put a date on it. The only change Mike wanted was at the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
bottom of the first page last sentence where it says... 'include a look back at the previous year's 
data...' to change to a 3 year look back to identify trends. John Dickson would like to do a 2 
year future projection so this would create a 5 year window on the budget." 
On November 18, 2011, Attorney E. James Veara wrote Town Administrator Sumner a 
letter explaining the Open Meeting's Law's requirements with respect to email deliberations. 
Attorney Veara wrote that "[r]ecently, you relayed the Finance Committee's questions about its 
use of electronically-transmitted messages to facilitate its proceedings. The law has changed in 
this area, and I need to urge caution. Many such e-mails are not properly used." Attorney Veara 
further advised that "it is evident that the distribution of materials that will be discussed at a 
meeting is not troublesome. Similarly, an exchange of suggested revision by fewer members 
than a quorum does not violate the Act. Nevertheless, suggested revisions would represent an 
`expressed' opinion of a member,' and such a communication among a quorum of either the 
committee or a subcommittee would violate the Open Meeting Law." On November 22, 2011, 
Finance Committee Chair Fitzgerald emailed a copy of the letter to the members of the Finance 
Committee members, for discussion at the Committee's November 30, 2011 meeting. 
On November 22, 2011, Mr. Montgomery sent an email to the Finance Committee 
members with an attached draft of the report, writing, "[a]ached is the rewritten and edited 3rd  
and I hope final draft for the budget process report for review and discussion at the November 
30th  FINCOM Meeting. Please save your comments for the Nov. 30 meeting and do not reply 
to this email as it could be construed as a violation of the Open Meeting law if this report is  
discussed electronically between members."  (emphasis in original). 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently. 
To that end, the law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. All deliberations must occur 
during a meeting. Id. 
The Subcommittee's mission was to draft a report on the Town's budget process to 
present to the Finance Committee. The three Subcommittee members met on September 9, 
2011, and then continued their discussion over email during the next two months, sharing draft 
documents and discussing proposed edits. This series of email exchanges constituted 
impermissible deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2011-14 1. A public body member may 
send an email to a quorum of the public body with an attached draft report for discussion at an 
upcoming meeting, provided that no opinion of the sender is expressed. Id. Here, the 
Subcommittee members did not have another meeting following the September 9, 2011 meeting. 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
They exchanged drafts and edits over email, and after they refined the document, they sent it to 
the Finance Committee. This process should have occurred during meetings. 
The Finance Committee argues in its January 24, 2012 letter that "changes to the draft 
report were grammatical in nature and not substantive. We have determined, based on the 
aforementioned facts that these e-mails do not constitute deliberation as no individual or group 
opinions were communicated." We disagree with this assessment. The first draft of the report 
reflects the Subcommittee's discussion from its September 9, 2011 meeting, and did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. But the exchange of drafts over the subsequent two months addressed 
more than mere grammatical edits, such as adding four additional goals for the budget process 
between drafts. Also troubling is Mr. Montgomery's October 22, 2011 email where he writes 
that he "will be available by cell phone so we can sort of discuss this if you choose." This type 
of communication between a quorum of the members of a public body is not permitted. Because 
the Subcommittee had only three members, any telephone conversations between two members 
would have constituted a quorum and would have been improper if conducted outside of a 
meeting. 
The complainant raised his concerns about the Subcommittee's improper email 
deliberations during the Finance Committee's November 16, 2011 meeting. We commend the 
Finance Committee Chair for suggesting to the Finance Committee members following that 
meeting that they discontinue discussions over email while they sought a legal opinion. On 
November 18, 2011, Attorney E. James Veara wrote Town Administrator Sumner a letter 
explaining the Open Meeting's Law's requirements with respect to email deliberations. On 
November 22, 2011, Finance Committee Chair Fitzgerald emailed a copy of the letter to the 
members of the Finance Committee, for discussion at the Committee's November 30, 2011 
meeting. That same day, Mr. Montgomery emailed a final draft of the report to the Finance 
Committee members, noting that the report was "for review and discussion at the November 30th  
FINCOM Meeting. Please save your comments for the Nov. 30 meeting and do not reply to  
this email as it could be construed as a violation of the Open Meeting law if this report is  
discussed electronically between members."  (emphasis in original). 
We believe the Subcommittee and the Finance Committee took appropriate steps to halt 
the activity contributing to the violation once the complainant brought the issue of impermissible 
email deliberations to their attention. However, the Finance Committee did not cure the 
violation because it did not take the additional step of publicly releasing the improper emails sent 
by the Subcommittee members. 
We note that determining which tasks are merely administrative and appropriate for email 
can be challenging, and that email communication between a quorum of public body members —
however innocent — creates at least the appearance of a potential Open Meeting Law violation. 
Therefore, our best advice continues to be that public bodies not communicate over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing documents created 
by non-members to be discussed at meetings, which are administrative tasks specifically 
sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating over 
email. We do not believe this was an intentional violation, and believe that all of the members of 
the Finance Committee are now aware of their obligations under the law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the law, and order the Finance 
Committee to publicly release all emails from members of the Subcommittee that were sent 
between and among a quorum of the Subcommittee on matters within its jurisdiction, unless the 
attorney/client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. This should occur 
within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely),  
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michael Gradone 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 