===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 15, 2011 
OML 2011 - 11 
Lawrence Ashley 
Chairman 
Freetown Soil Conservation Board 
3 North Main St. 
Assonet, MA 02702 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Ashley, 
This office received a complaint filed by Donna Leary dated January 26, 2011 alleging 
that the Freetown Soil Conservation Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that Board listed "Renewal of Fall Soil 
Permits" as a topic for its October 12, 2010 meeting, and that the topic "is not descriptive enough 
to reasonably show who will be coming in and for what. It also does not give the location of the 
project." The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 12, 2010. We 
also received the Board's response to the original complaint on or about December 4, 2010. 
We find that the Board's notice for its October 12, 2010 meeting did not meet the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination we reviewed the October 
12, 2010 and January 26, 2011 complaints, the Board's December 4, 2010 response, and the 
notice and the minutes for the October 12, 2010 meeting. 
From the information provided by the complaint and the Board's response, we 
understand that the following occurred: the Board scheduled a meeting for October 12, 2010 to 
consider, among other items, applications for renewal of soil permits. In the Board's December 
4, 2010 response to the complaint, the Board states, "[t]he Chair reasonably anticipated that [the 
Board] would act on several of the pending applications for renewal of existing Soil Permits, and 
therefore included an item on the agenda indicating that the Board would be discussing that 
topic." The meeting notice included a topic listed as "Renewal of Fall Soil Permits." It was 
===PAGE 2===
posted on October 6, 2010. The minutes of the meeting reflect that the Board considered and 
approved 5 permits: 
#496, #497, #499, #498 and #500 
5 acres on the south side of the Assonet River, 53 Dr Braley Road, 5 acres on Braley 
Road, 4 acres on Chace Road, AA Will Quarry. 
The minutes do not reflect any discussion of the permits. 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. C. 30, §§ 20(b) states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body, must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. 
Here the Board makes clear in its December 4, 2010 response that the chair of the Board 
reasonably anticipated the specific permits to be discussed at the October 12, 2010 meeting. 
However, the notice for the October 12, 2010 meeting included only a broadly stated item 
indicating that the renewal of fall soil permits would be a subject of discussion during the 
meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that the Board list those topics anticipated by the 
chair with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.' A notice which states "Renewal of Fall Soil Permits" does not provide sufficient 
specificity. To the extent that the Board is aware which specific permits it will consider during 
I  See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting:  
Q: How specific must the listing of topics be in the meeting notice? 
A: The listing of topics must contain enough specificity to give the public an understanding of each topic that will be 
discussed. It is not sufficient to list broad topic categories, such as "Old Business." For example, when the Chair of 
a Board of Selectmen reasonably anticipates a discussion about on-going traffic improvement projects in town at the 
next Board meeting, it would be appropriate for the Chair to list that topic in the notice as: "Discussion of Traffic 
Improvement Projects at the intersection of Main and Pleasant Streets; and at the intersection of Elm and Oak 
Streets." In some instances, there may be overlap in the posting requirements of the Open Meeting Law and other 
statutes. In most cases, the information required by the controlling statute will satisfy the Open Meeting Law. 
meeting notice requirements, however for specific questions please contact the Division of Open Government. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the meeting, it should take the additional step of listing in the meeting notice the details of those 
specific permits, including the name of the applicant and the location under consideration. This 
level of detail is intended to provide members of the public with sufficient information to 
understand what business is being transacted by the Board and, where members of the public 
have an interest, to attend the relevant deliberations. 
This determination is not intended to minimize the thoughtful concerns expressed by the 
Board in its response. Rather we are hopeful that this deteimination provides a roadmap to the 
Board for how to proceed going forward. Accordingly, we take this opportunity to address the 
Board's concerns as they were expressed in its response, in turn. 
First, the Board raises a concern that, "imposing a requirement that the meeting notice be 
the equivalent of a detailed agenda would impose unreasonable administrative burdens on public 
bodies." We do not believe that providing detail of the specific permits and the specific 
locations under consideration by the Board will result in an unreasonable administrative burden 
to the Board. Listing the full details contained in the permit applications in the meeting notice is 
not necessary. For instance, an adequate topic for the October 12 meeting notice could have 
appeared as: 
Renewal of Fall Soil Permits 
#496 [Name of Applicant], 5 acres on the south side of the Assonet River 
#497 [Name of Applicant], 53 Dr Braley Road 
#499 [Name of Applicant], 5 acres on Braley Road 
#498, [Name of Applicant], 4 acres on Chace Road 
#500, [Name of Applicant], AA Will Quarry 
Second, the Board contends that "boards would be prevented from acting upon permit 
renewals inadvertently omitted from the posting, resulting in adverse impacts upon business 
owners." Permits that were inadvertently omitted from the notice may be the topic for a 
subsequent, adequately posted meeting. We understand that this may require the Board to hold a 
special meeting outside of its normally scheduled meetings, but the Board may choose to do so. 
Additionally, permits that were not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting 
and were not reflected on the notice may still be considered by the Board during the posted 
meeting.2  However, we recommend that whenever possible the Board postpone action on items 
which were not listed in the meeting notice in order to provide adequate notice to the public, 
2  See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting:  
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
unless circumstances require immediate action. 
In the future, the Board is required to comply with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. This includes taking the steps necessary to provide sufficient detail in meeting notices 
such that members of the public are able to understand specifically which issues and locations 
will be discussed by the Board. The requirement that meeting notices list topics with sufficient 
specificity is new, and here the Board complied with the requirement in part. Based on our 
review of the facts, we do not believe the Board acted with any intent to circumvent the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. However, we caution the Board that evidence of a 
similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. See  940 CMR 29.02. 
Finally, we acknowledge the actions that the Board has taken in response to this 
complaint, including its commitment to list in future notices where, and at what times, the full 
permit applications will be available for review by the public. Therefore, we resolve this 
complaint by providing additional guidance to the Board. We decline to take the additional step 
requested by the complainant, which is to rescind action taken by the Board of Selectmen on this 
matter. We consider this matter closed. 
If you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the 
number below. 
/ 
ofiathan Sclarsic / 3 
y Assistant Attorney General 
1Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
cc: Donna Leary 
4 