===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
March 4, 2022 
OML 2022 – 41 
VIA EMAIL 
Michael J. Long, Esq. 
Long & DiPietro, LLP 
175 Derby Street, Unit 17 
Hingham, MA 02043 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Long: 
This office received a complaint from Sara Steele on September 14, 2021, alleging that 
the Tewksbury School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 29, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated September 28.2  The complaint alleges 
that the complainant was denied access to a Committee meeting held on July 21, and as a result 
was not able to speak publicly during the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, the notice and minutes of the Committee’s July 21 meeting, as well as 
a letter from the Tewksbury Public Schools Superintendent to Ms. Steele dated July 14. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  On July 14, the Tewksbury Public Schools Superintendent 
sent a letter to Ms. Steele alerting her that he would be investigating an incident in which Ms. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Regulations 
require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Steele may have “enter[ed] the Dewing School classrooms, observ[ed] students, question[ed] 
staff, possibly tak[en] photographs, and inspect[ed] facilities without authorization.”  The letter 
further stated, “During the investigation period, I am requesting that you kindly refrain from 
entering any Tewksbury Public School building beyond the lobby area without my knowledge 
and express consent.” 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 21 at 6:00 PM at the 
Tewksbury Memorial High School in the Large Group Instruction Room.  The Committee 
convened its meeting as scheduled.  At no time prior to the meeting did Ms. Steele request to 
attend the meeting or seek clarification regarding whether she was permitted to attend, nor did 
she attempt to enter the High School on July 21 to attend the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.3  A public 
body must be able to take reasonable steps to ensure the safety and good order of public 
meetings.  See OML 2015-92.  By “good order” we mean protection against violent, threatening 
or abusive behavior, and not merely behavior that may disrupt a meeting.  Disruptive behavior 
should be addressed by removing the person from the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). 
The complaint alleges that Ms. Steele was denied access to the Committee’s July 21 
meeting and was denied the opportunity to speak publicly at that meeting.  We note that there is 
no dispute that the July 21 meeting was an open meeting accessible to the general public, but we 
review to determine whether the meeting was also accessible to Ms. Steele.  Our review does not 
reveal that Ms. Steele attempted to attend the July 21 meeting and was denied access, nor that 
she sought clarification regarding whether the Superintendent’s letter prohibited her from 
attending the meeting.  To the contrary, the Committee responds that the Committee Chair, and 
not the Superintendent, presides over Committee meetings and would be the person with 
authority to deny access to a meeting.  The Committee also emphasizes that the Superintendent’s 
letter “request[ed]” that Ms. Steele “kindly refrain” from entering school buildings but was not a 
strict prohibition and was not intended to prohibit attendance at any public meeting, and had Ms. 
Steele sought clarification, the Superintendent could have confirmed that point. 
On these facts, we find no evidence that Ms. Steele sought to attend the July 21 meeting 
or requested permission to attend and was denied access.  We cannot, therefore, conclude that 
she was actually excluded from the Committee’s July 21 meeting.  Compare OML 2018-77 
(finding that a public body violated the Open Meeting Law by excluding the complainant from 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
its meetings after he expressed interest in attending but was told he was not allowed, and where 
there were no specific incidents of physical aggression, violence or threats of harm) with OML 
2019-14 (finding that a public body did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the city 
administrator had issued a “no trespass” order to a particular individual prohibiting his presence 
at City Hall, but the individual never actually attempted or requested to attend a meeting and was 
denied access); see also OML 2018-138 (finding no violation of the Open Meeting Law when 
interview candidates were asked but not directed to wait outside the meeting room during 
portions of an open meeting).   
Finally, we address the complainant’s related concern that she was unable to speak 
publicly during the Committee’s July 21 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o 
person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The law does not require that a 
public body allow public participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to 
decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting.  See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-
23; OML 2012-78.  Therefore, the Committee was not required by the Open Meeting Law to 
accept public comment at all, and if public comment was accepted and Ms. Steele had been in 
attendance, it would have been within the discretion of the Chair whether to permit the 
complainant to speak during the meeting.  We offer no opinion as to whether Committee policy 
guaranteed members of the public the right to offer public comment on matters on the agenda, as 
Ms. Steele asserts.  We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public 
participation as time and circumstances permit.  See OML 2015-12; OML 2014- 129; OML 
2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
  
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sara Steele (via email: ) 
 Tewksbury School Committee, c/o Keith M. Sullivan, Committee Chair    
  (via email:  )  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 