===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 23, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 97 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Madison Harris-Parks, Esq. 
mhparks@mhtl.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Harris-Parks: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mark Zuberek on April 13, 2026,
1 alleging that the 
Danvers Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 23, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated April 10. The complaint alleges that the Board posted an 
insufficiently specific notice of a meeting it held on March 10. Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that the meeting notice lacked sufficient specificity to advise of the issues to be discussed 
with respect to items #4 and #5 on the meeting notice. The complaint further alleges the Board 
held votes on items #3 and #5 without specifying on the meeting notice that the Board would 
take action on the matters. Finally, the complaint alleges that the scope of public comment 
allowed by the Board was inconsistent with the meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic, the use of outside consultants, that was not listed on the meeting notice with 
sufficient specificity. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed a fee waiver under agenda topic #4 on the meeting notice, and that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law when it omitted from the meeting notice the expected 
conclusion/action to be taken on each item. We decline to review the allegation concerning 
public comment. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, the request for further review, as well as the posted notice, minutes, and 
recording
2 of the March 10 Board meeting. 
 
1 All dates are in 2026, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A Recording of the Board’s March 10 meeting can be found here. 
(https://www.youtube.com/live/Y_mCKAakMEU?si=VJ9DNhNagdsxBPe4) 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On March 5, the Board posted a notice of a meeting of 
the Board to be held on March 10. The notice included the following five topics: 
 
1. Housing Production Plan (HPP) – Discussion about the Housing Production Plan 
(HPP) 
2. Open Space and Recreation Plan (OSRP) – Discussion about the Open Space and 
Recreation Plan (OSRP) 
3. PUBLIC HEARING: 98 Newbury St – Request for Site Plan Review submitted by 
Temar Properties, LLC for property at 98 Newbury Street (Map 40, Lot 10), pursuant to 
Section 4 “Site Plan review” and a Waiver from Section 10.3.G “Width of Access Drives” 
of the Zoning Bylaw. Said property is in the Highway Corridor Zone zoning district. The 
applicant is proposing to expand the existing mobile home park with the addition of 
twenty-four (24) new mobile homes with associated site modifications. 
4. PUBLIC HEARING: 83 Elm Street and 5 Essex Street – Request for Site Plan Review 
submitted by MJP Properties, Inc. and Johnson Construction management, LLC for 
properties at 83 Elm Street (Map 51, Lot 250) and 5 Essex Street (Map 51, Lot 249), 
pursuant to Section 4 “Site Plan Review” of the Zoning Bylaw. Said properties are in the 
Danvers Town Center – Core (DTC-C) Zoning District. The applicant is proposing a 
redevelopment of the properties with a mixed-use building consisting of first floor 
commercial space and thirteen (13) residential units on the upper floors and associated 
site modifications. APPLICANT REQUESTS A WITHDRAWAL OF THE 
APPLICATION WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
5. G.L. c. 44, §53G – Employment of Outside Consultants – Discussion about 53G 
Outside Consultants 
 
The meeting took place as scheduled. During the meeting, the Board took votes regarding 
topics #3, #4, and #5. Additionally, the Board permitted public comment on topics #1, #2, and #3 
but did not permit public comment on topics #4 and #5. During the Board’s consideration of 
topic #4, Attorney Nancy McCann, representing the applicant, requested withdrawal of the 
application, as indicated on the meeting notice, due to an unresolved title issue. However, after 
making this request, Attorney McCann made an additional request to preemptively waive a filing 
fee that would be assessed when the applicants resubmit their application. The waiver request 
was not expressly listed on the meeting notice. After some discussion about the fee and waiver 
request, the Board voted to table the discussion of a fee waiver until submission of the new 
application. The Board then proceeded to topic #5, during which Principal Planner Joshua Morris 
requested Board approval, on behalf of Town planning staff, to utilize and rely on outside 
consultants in order to compensate for staff shortages in the Town Engineering Division. The 
Board then discussed Planning staff’s authority to rely on outside consultants, under G.L. c. 44, 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
§ 53G,3 the types of projects to which such authority would apply, the timeline of this measure, 
and the allocation of costs of outside consultants to applicants. After further discussion with Mr. 
Morris, the Board voted to grant Town planning staff the authority to use outside consultants for 
engineering services. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice topic #4 was sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting. Id. The listing of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider 
a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic 
and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2023-114; 2022-
239.4 Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from its consideration of the posted 
agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the discussion that occurred. See 
OML 2023-114; OML 2022-239; OML 2018-14. 
 
Here, the complaint alleges that item #4 on the meeting notice lacked sufficient 
specificity to advise the public of the issues to be discussed, specifically the discussion of a fee 
waiver. Indeed, the meeting notice for the March 10 meeting does not reference any such fee 
waiver under item #4. However, a public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in 
order to comply with the Open Meeting Law, as the law does not require a meeting notice to list 
all tangential issues related to a particular topic. See OML 2024-109; 2023-114. We are satisfied 
that the listed agenda topic #4 was sufficient to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Based upon the information provided to our office, it 
appears the discussion of a fee waiver was first raised by the applicant during the meeting. None 
of the information provided to our office suggests the Chair of the Board knew of, or reasonably 
anticipated discussion of the fee waiver within 48 hours of the March 10 meeting. Moreover, the 
discussion about the fee waiver naturally flowed from the Board’s consideration of item #4. We 
therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it discussed the 
possible fee waivers under item #4. See OML 2023-114. 
 
 
 
 
3 General Laws Chapter 44, Section 53G provides rules governing the management of fees imposed by 
municipalities for the employment of outside consultants. Section 53G provides that a municipality may deposit 
such fees in a special account that “shall be kept separate and apart from other monies.” Section 53G further allows 
for a limited appeals process regarding the selection of outside consultants. G.L. c. 44, § 53G. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed topic #5, which was listed 
in the notice with insufficient specificity. 
 
As noted above, topics for discussion by a public body must be listed on the meeting 
notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it 
is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review the notice standing alone. See OML 2025-78; 
OML 2015-21. Rather, we review what was discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice 
was sufficiently specific. See OML 2015-101. 
 
The March 10 discussion on topic #5 focused on the use of outside consultants to 
supplement the staff shortages of the Town’s Engineering Division, the authority of Town 
planning staff to rely on these outside consultants under § 53G, and the allocation of costs of 
these outside consultants. We find that the notice of the March 10 meeting was insufficiently 
specific as to topic #5. See OML 2019-77 (finding notice topic “Review FY20 Department 
budgets” insufficient where specific department budgets anticipated for discussion); OML 2019-
89 (finding that the notice topics “Host Agreement,” ““Land Development,” and “Non-
Opposition letter” “did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the Board would be 
discussing a marijuana establishment - a topic that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public 
interest”). Topic #5 simply reads “G.L. c. 44, §53G – Employment of Outside Consultants – 
Discussion about 53G Outside Consultants” (bold in original). Our office has previously 
explained that meeting notices should include the required details on the notice itself, without 
requiring users to navigate separate pages or documents. See OML 2025-88; OML 2024-9; OML 
2020-21. Although a notice topic as listed may be meaningful to members of a public body, it 
may still be unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the ongoing matters before the 
public body, and thus insufficient. See OML 2020-137; see also OML 2026-15 (discouraging 
public bodies from including abbreviations or acronyms on meeting notices that are not 
commonly understood); OML 2016-5 (same); OML 2013-55 (same). Topic #5 as listed provides 
no information to the public regarding what specifically about “outside consultants” the Board 
anticipated discussing, and did discuss, on March 10, as it is merely a reference to the broad 
category of outside consultants. Therefore, topic #5 on the meeting notice lacks sufficient 
specificity as required by law, and we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2013-15 (finding notice topics “Votes of the Board of Regional Commissioners” and 
“Ratify the action taken by the County Administrator […] regarding Personnel Actions” 
insufficiently specific); OML 2011-11 (finding notice topic “Renewal of Fall Soil Permits” 
insufficiently specific); see also OML 2013-15, n.2 (“It is not sufficient to list broad topic 
categories, such as ‘Old Business’”). 
 
III. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it omitted from the notice the 
expected conclusion or action to be taken on each topic. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it held votes 
on topics #3 and #5, despite the meeting notice only specifying that a “discussion” would take 
place. Here, the complaint does not allege that the topics themselves were described with 
insufficient specificity on the meeting notice; rather the complaint alleges that the notice was 
insufficient where it specified that a “discussion” would take place, yet a vote was taken. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Although it is good practice for a notice to specify that a vote will be taken when a vote is 
anticipated in advance, the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice separately 
indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2022-239; OML 2015-66. It is reasonably 
foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion of a topic 
listed on a meeting notice, even when such meeting notice indicates only a “discussion.” See 
OML 2022-239; OML 2021-153; OML 2019-36; OML 2017-48; OML 2015-66. Thus, the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it held votes on topics #3 and #5 without 
specifying on the meeting notice that votes may be taken. 
 
 
IV. We decline to review allegations concerning public comment. 
The complaint alleges that the degree of public comment allowed on different topics was 
inconsistent with the meeting notice. Specifically, the complaint alleges that although the 
meeting notice indicated a “Public Hearing” for topic #4, little to no public comment was 
permitted. Conversely, the complaint alleges that although agenda topics #1 and #2 indicated 
only a “Discussion” would take place, public comment was permitted. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public comment, but 
rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment 
during a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2020-77; OML 2017-189. If public comment will 
be permitted, the chair may determine the method for receiving public comment and may set 
limitations on participation. See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-189. Moreover, the Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic, nor does it prohibit a public body from 
removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic listed on a meeting notice or agenda. See 
OML Declination 02-19-2021 (Everett City Council); OML 2014-35 (finding that once a 
meeting begins, a public body controls its own agenda and is not required to adhere to indicated 
times on a notice for the discussion of individual agenda items). 
 
 The Division of Open Government’s authority concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law only. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Because this allegation, even if true, would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review it. OML Declination 03-
27-2026 (Boston City Council); OML Declination 05-25-2023 (Westminster Planning Board); 
OML Declination 02-19-2021 (Everett City Council). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list with sufficient specificity the topic concerning outside consultants. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Sincerely,
Matt you
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Assisted by lan Harvey, Legal Intern
CC:
Louis George, Chair, Danvers Planning Board
Mark Zuberek
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6