===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 2, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 3 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Paul Reardon 
Winthrop Board of Registrars of Voters  
 
 
 RE: O
pen Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Reardon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Aiello on October 16, 2025, alleging that 
the Winthrop Board of Registrars of Voters (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1   The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 16, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 3.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board improperly deliberated outside of a posted meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the 
notice and minutes of the Board’s September 3 meeting, and a memorandum of decision and 
judgment in the matter of Committee to Recall Max Tassinari v. Town Clerk Denis Quist, SJ-
2025-0378. 
 
The complaint arises from the Board’s consideration of a petition to recall Town 
Councillor Max Tassinari (the “Petition”) at its meeting on September 3.  The September 3 
meeting was attended by the Committee to Recall Max Tassinari (the “Committee”) and by the 
Winthrop Town Clerk.  The Clerk took the position that the Committee had not collected enough 
signatures for the recall to be placed on the ballot, on the grounds that less than 20% of 
registered voters signed the petition.  The Committee, on the other hand, argued that it was 
required to collect signatures from only 20% of the votes cast in the last election and that it had 
done so.  The Board briefly discussed the Petition and the calculation of voter signatures.  
Following the discussion, the Board voted to override the Clerk’s decision, thereby approving 
the recall question to be placed on the November 4 ballot. 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that, unless properly convened in executive session, is open to the 
public.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.2  The complainant alleges that the unanimous vote 
at the September 3 meeting, after little discussion, evidences “a high probability that these three 
members had discussed the matter in advance.”  The complainant notes that after hearing 
arguments by lawyers on both sides, members of the Board did not ask any questions.  A motion 
was made and according to the complainant, the three members exchanged some words that were 
inaudible to him.  The three members then voted unanimously to override the Clerk’s decision.  
The Board denies that it engaged in any deliberation outside of the meeting, and that any 
communication prior to the meeting was “for logistical purposes in planning the hearing.”  The 
Board of Registrars had received detailed documentation from each side prior to the September 3 
meeting. 
 
The complaint does not identify any particular statement that forms the basis of the 
complainant’s belief that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting, nor 
does it present any other facts supporting this allegation.  The Board denies any violation of the 
Open Meeting Law and specifically asserts that members had no substantive discussion about the 
recall petition outside the meeting, and that the only communications that occurred outside of a 
meeting concerned logistical planning for the hearing.  Absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; 
OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is 
every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public 
officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”).
3  Furthermore, we have explained 
on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted 
meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., 
OML 2024-108; OML 2024-91; OML 2024-14; OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-
59.  Finally, we have explained that agreement without substantive discussion among public 
body members or the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support the 
inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 2024-154; 
OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.  As there is no evidence that members of the 
Board deliberated outside of a meeting, we find no violation. 
 
  
 
2 The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Jill Petersen, Principal Clerk (via email: jpetersen@winthropma.gov) 
Joseph Aiello (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
