===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 44 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Evan C. Bjorklund 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Cambridge  
ebjorklund@Cambridgema.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bjorklund: 
 
This office received a complaint from Young Kim on March 20, 2025,1 alleging that the 
Board of the Cambridge Affordable Housing Trust (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
January 28, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 14. Based on the 
complaint and the request for further review of the complaint, we understand the Complainant’s 
concern to be that the Board’s meeting notices, including that of its January 23 meeting, are not 
conspicuously displayed on the City’s website and therefore are not posted in compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law.2  
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also mentions a request made under the Public Records Law for records that were used during an 
executive session held by the Board and the Board’s response to this request. It is not entirely clear what is being 
alleged with respect to the Complainant’s public records request nor whether any such allegations fall under the 
Open Meeting Law. For these reasons, we do not formally address the Complainant’s request for executive session 
records. However, in an effort to provide guidance, we note the following. The Open Meeting Law allows a public 
body to withhold the minutes of an executive session as well as the documents and exhibits used during the 
executive session for so long as the executive session purpose remains ongoing, but no longer.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Although the Open Meeting Law provides a mechanism for requesting meeting minutes, 
including minutes of executive sessions, G.L. c. 30A, § 22, it does not provide a mechanism for requesting other 
records, including documents used at a meeting. Such requests instead fall under the Public Records Law. The 
Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office enforces the Public Records Law in the 
first instance. However, under its Open Meeting Law enforcement authority, the Division of Open Government may 
review whether an executive session purpose remains ongoing such that minutes and other records may continue to 
be withheld pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice of its January 23 meeting in a conspicuous manner. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further 
review, and the City of Cambridge’s official notice posting location, which is the City’s website 
www.cambridgema.gov.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The City of Cambridge’s official notice posting 
location is the municipal website, www.cambridgema.gov. Toward the top of the landing page of 
the City’s website, several buttons are prominently displayed, one of which is labeled “Open 
Meeting Portal.” The Open Meeting Portal button links to a page that serves as a central location 
for meeting notices for the City Council and its committees, as well as a small number of other 
public bodies. Text on the page instructs the user that if they wish to view meeting information 
for other City bodies, they may do so by selecting another body from the drop-down menu on the 
lefthand side of the page. On the lefthand side of the page there is a drop-down menu that lists 
101 city bodies. However, selecting a body from the list does not necessarily result in seeing 
meeting notices for that body, as the text on the page suggests. This is true for the Board. If one 
selects the Board from the drop-down menu the page does not show any meeting notices, but 
instead provides a blurb about the Housing Trust and a link to the Housing Trust’s webpage, 
www.cambridgema.gov/CDD/housing/housingtrust (the “CDD Housing Trust Page”), which is a 
subpage of the City’s Community Development Department’s webpage. The CDD Housing 
Trust Page contains general information about the Trust, and, toward the bottom of the page, a 
chart of the Board’s meetings by date. This chart includes a link labeled “agenda” which when 
clicked opens a PDF of the meeting notice. 
 
Another way to navigate to the Board’s notices is by scrolling to the bottom of the 
landing page where there is a link to the City’s calendar page. The calendar page is a running list 
of a wide variety of events occurring in the City on a particular day, sometimes including as 
many as 40 events that range from public body meetings to Zumba classes to ping pong 
workshops. Included in the list of events for January 23 is an entry for a 4:00 p.m. meeting of the 
Board. This entry does not include a notice but instead includes a link to another page which 
contains some information about the meeting such as the date, time, and place of the meeting, 
but no meeting notice that contains all the information required by G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Instead, 
this secondary page states that “[t]he meeting agenda and meeting materials will be posted on the 
Affordable Housing Trust webpage,” and includes a link to the CDD Housing Trust Page, where, 
as discussed above, one must scroll to the bottom and click on an additional link before 
accessing the meeting notice.3  
 
 
 
 
3 The Board asserts in its response that information about the Board’s meeting was linked to on the Open Meeting 
Portal page under the “Boards+” tab. The Boards+ tab links to a separate page on which there is a blurb about the 
Trust and Board, as well as other City bodies, but no meeting notices. On this page there is a link labeled “View 
Meeting Minutes,” which leads to the CDD Housing Trust Page. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, a public body must post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding weekends and 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines the phrase “post notice” as “to 
display conspicuously the written announcement of a meeting either in hard copy or electronic 
format.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To comply with the Open Meeting Law, a notice must contain the 
date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a list of the topics the chair and any other 
individual authorized to create the notice reasonably anticipate will be discussed at the meeting. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.4  
 
We find that the Board’s meeting notices, including that of its January 23 meeting, are 
not conspicuously displayed on the City’s website. The impression given by the Open Meeting 
Portal button on www.cambridgema.gov and the Open Meeting Portal page is that one will be 
able to locate meeting notices for all public bodies on the Open Meeting Portal page. However, 
this is not the case. Instead, only some public bodies’ meeting notices are available on this 
central page. This means that someone must either know exactly where on the City’s website to 
find the Board’s notices—a subpage of the City’s Community Development Department’s 
webpage—or must navigate a lengthy calendar page and from there must navigate at least two 
additional pages and a link to a PDF in order to finally access the Board’s meeting notices. This 
does not comply with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meeting notices be 
conspicuously displayed. We acknowledge that the Board may not in fact post its own meeting 
notices to the City’s website and that it may not have access to post notices to the City’s Open 
Meeting Portal page; nonetheless, it is ultimately the Board’s responsibility to ensure that it 
complies with all aspects of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly post notice of its January 23 meeting. 5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice for its January 23 meeting in a conspicuous manner. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with Open Meeting Law and caution that future findings of 
similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Because the Board 
has since posted the minutes and other materials from its January 23 meeting on the Trust’s 
webpage, we do not order further remedial action.  
 
Additionally, we advise the Law Department and the City Clerk that notices of meetings 
of all public bodies in the City must be conspicuously posted, and to the extent that other public 
bodies post notice in a manner similar to that of the Board, such posting methods also must be 
addressed to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Board is required to post meeting packets or other materials online, we 
note that there is no such requirement in the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-60 (“The Open Meeting Law does 
not require that a public body include supporting documents or a ‘meeting packet’ along with a meeting notice nor 
that it post or provide such documents to members of the public in advance of a meeting.”); 2022-19; OML 2021-
181; OML 2020-140, n. 2.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Board of the Cambridge Affordable Housing Trust c/o Chris Cotter,  
Director of Housing (via email: ccotter@cambridgema.gov)  
 Diane P. LeBlanc, City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cambridgema.gov) 
Young Kim (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
