===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 5, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 110 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian Riley, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received two complaints from Alex Bowman on December 24, 2020, and 
January 21, 2021, alleging that the Sandisfield Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board 
on November 10 and December 10, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letters dated 
December 9 and December 22, pursuant to an extension granted by our office.1 In his 
complaints, Mr. Bowman alleges that the Board 1) improperly entered executive session on 
October 1 without a proper executive session purpose,2 and 2) failed to periodically review its 
executive session minutes for release to the public. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting 
in executive session without a lawful purpose and failing to review its executive session minutes 
at reasonable intervals. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We also 
reviewed meeting notices and meeting minutes of the Board’s two October 1 executive sessions, 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 Mr. Bowman also alleges that the Board could have provided more detail about the anticipated topic for the 5:00 
p.m. executive session on October 1. However, since we find that the October 1 5:00 p.m. executive session lacked a 
proper statutory purpose, we do not determine whether the meeting notice was sufficiently detailed, as the 
discussion should not have taken place in executive session at all. Similarly, Mr. Bowman also alleges that the 
Board should have released the October 1 5:00 p.m. executive session minutes sooner than November 23. Since we 
find that the October 1 5:00 p.m. executive session lacked a proper statutory purpose, we do not determine when the 
purpose for that session expired, as it was not proper to begin with.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
which took place at 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Finally, we emailed with the Board’s counsel on 
several occasions from March through July 2021.  
Improper Topic for Executive Session  
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive, or closed, 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (a)(1); see also OML 2020-76.3 Under Purpose 1, the individual to be 
discussed has certain rights, including the right to individual notice, to be present at the executive 
session, to speak on his or her behalf, to have counsel present, and to record the executive 
session. Id. 
 The Board posted two notices for meetings to take place on October 1, one for a 5:00 
p.m. meeting and the other for a 6:00 p.m. meeting.4 Both notices stated that the Board would 
enter executive session, “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
or individual.” On November 23, the Board voted to approve minutes for both executive 
sessions, but released to the public only the minutes from the 5:00 p.m. executive session. We 
reviewed both sets of executive session minutes. Because the minutes of the 6:00 p.m. executive 
session have not been released to the public, we do not recount their contents in detail. However, 
we note that the discussion related to the physical condition of an individual, which is one of the 
permissible reasons to enter executive session under Purpose 1. We therefore find that the 6:00 
p.m. executive session was properly held under Purpose 1, and that the Board may continue to 
withhold the 6:00 p.m. executive session minutes from public disclosure at this time.  
 
 However, we find that the topics discussed during the 5:00 p.m. executive session did not 
fit within Purpose 1, or any other of the ten executive session purposes permitted by the Open 
Meeting Law. As detailed in the meeting minutes, the 5:00 p.m. executive session was held to 
discuss the Massachusetts mandatory retirement age of 65 for police and fire chiefs as well as 
separate legal liability for the town of having firefighters over the age of 65. The Board 
considered the legal liability to the Town if a firefighter over the age of 65 entered a fire, along 
with related questions about insurance coverage. At the end of the executive session, in order to 
allow several current police officers and firefighters to continue serving past the age of 65, the 
Board voted to authorize Town Counsel to create a town meeting warrant article to exempt the 
police and fire personnel from the mandatory retirement age on the condition of an annual 
physical exam, the cost of the physical exam to be paid by the employee, not the Town.  
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 Neither the meeting notices nor the website where the notices were posted specifies the date and time the notices 
were posted, as is required by the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Although the ages of certain employees were discussed during the executive session, the 
Board did not discuss the “reputation, character, physical condition or mental health” of any 
particular individual. Rather, the Board engaged in a general discussion of the Town’s policy 
regarding police officers and firefighters over the age of 65. We therefore find that this topic was 
not properly held under Purpose 1, or any other of the ten executive session purposes permitted 
by the Open Meeting Law. Since the 5:00 p.m. executive session was held without a proper 
statutory purpose, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Periodic Review of Executive Session Minutes 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988). 
 A public body or its chair or designee must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable intervals” is not defined by the Law, our office has found 
a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. At the meeting following each periodic review, the 
public body must announce which executive session minutes will be released and which will 
continue to be withheld at the next meeting following its review, and such announcement shall 
be included in the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-
56. A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing. If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the 
public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-133. 
 The Board’s counsel informed us that, except for a November 23 review of the October 1 
executive session meeting minutes, the Board did not review its outstanding executive session 
minutes on a regular basis; the Board was unable to identify the date of its last prior review. We 
therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to review all executive 
session meeting minutes at reasonable intervals. We take this opportunity to remind the Board of 
its ongoing obligation to review all outstanding executive session minutes at reasonable 
interviews going forward, to determine whether the lawful purpose for secrecy remains or 
whether the minutes may be disclosed to the public.  
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session without a lawful purpose and failing to review its executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We also order the Board, within 60 days of receipt of this determination, to review all 
outstanding executive session minutes in order to determine whether continued non-disclosure is 
warranted. As the Board has already released the October 1 5:00 p.m. executive session meeting 
minutes to the public, we order no further relief. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Alex Bowman (via e-mail:  
 Sandisfield Board of Selectmen c/o Town Manager (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
