===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 14, 2016 
OML 2016-35 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr. 
Emerson & Emerson 
33 Whitney Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Joaquin Soares, dated January 19, 2016, alleging 
that the Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 22, 2015, 
and the Committee responded by letter dated November 17, 2015, In his complaint, Mr. Soares 
alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficient meeting 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the 
Committee's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, of which the 
complainant is a member. The Committee held a meeting on June 9, 2015. During this meeting, 
the complainant read a prepared statement in which he objected to a previous Committee 
decision to exclude his opinion from an employee evaluation created by the Committee. The 
complainant made this statement during the portion of the June 9, 2015 meeting reserved for 
1 In the request for further review filed with our office, the complainant alleges that the Committee improperly 
published his personal notes. This allegation was not contained in the original complaint filed with the Committee. 
As such, we decline to review it. See G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); OML 2012-38. We note, however, that this allegation— 
even if true—would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
minutes. 
FACTS 
"Old Business." 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The minutes of the June 9, 2015 meeting were approved on October 13, 2015. The 
original version of these minutes listed "New SHS Building Project Update" in bold and, under 
that, simply stated, "Mr. Soares read a prepared statement." 
On October 22, 2015, the complainant filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint 
with the Committee. The Committee responded by letter dated November 17, 2015, stating that 
revisions had been made to the June 9, 2015 meeting minutes in light of the complaint. The 
Committee removed the "New SHS Building Project Update" heading to make it clear that the 
complainant's statement did not concern the building project. Furthermore, the Committee 
attached a copy of the complainant's prepared statement to the minutes and amended the minutes 
to state, "Mr. Soares read a prepared statement, which is attached as part of the minutes." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law provides that public bodies, "shall create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes 
must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark made or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; 
OML 2011-55. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the remedial action taken in response to the October 22, 
2015 complaint is insufficient, as the Committee made only "cosmetic changes" to the minutes. 
Indeed, the minutes were revised only slightly and simply direct the reader to an attached copy of 
the complainant's written statement. Simply attaching the statement does not meet the 
Committee's obligation to summarize the discussion in its minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). As 
such, it does not comply with the Open Meeting Law. Id The complainant alleges that we 
should determine that this violation is intentional, as we previously advised the Committee that 
its executive session minutes lacked sufficient detail. See OML 2011-55. That previous 
determination latter concerned executive session minutes that provided insufficient detail about 
discussions that took place. Here, the Committee provided the substance of the complainant's 
comments, albeit in a form other than what the law requires. Based on this good faith effort to 
make the information available, we find that this violation was not intentional. Nevertheless, we 
find that the Committee failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2014-105. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Furthermore, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
we order the Committee, within thirty days of receipt of this letter, to amend the minutes of the 
June 9, 2015 meeting to include a summary of the discussion that took place. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Joaquin Soares 
Stoughton School Committee 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 