===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 14, 2016 
OML 2016-154 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Jeffrey Singleton, dated August 18, alleging that 
the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25,1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 24, and, after an extension 
of time was granted, the Board responded by letter dated June 28. In his complaint, Mr. 
Singleton alleges that the Board conducted certain discussions in executive session that lacked a 
proper statutory justification. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of open session 
Board meetings held on April 11, and May 2, 16, and 31. We reviewed, in camera, the minutes 
of executive session meetings held on these same dates. Finally, we reviewed a supplementary 
response from the Board's legal counsel dated October 25.2 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns a Reorganization Plan considered 
by the Board that would have restructured the operations of the Town's Water Pollution Control 
Facility. During a Board meeting on January 4, the Water Pollution Control Facility 
Superintendent presented the Board with a proposed succession plan concerning operations of 
the facility after the Superintendent's retirement in December. The proposed plan suggested that 
the Superintendent position be eliminated and replaced by elevating two current staff members to 
assume the Superintendent's functions. Following this meeting, the Town's labor counsel 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
informed the Town Administrator that such a proposal had implications for collective bargaining 
agreements concerning the Control Facility's employees. 
The Reorganization Plan was next discussed during executive sessions held on April 11 
and May 2, 16, and 31. The notices for these meetings all stated that the Board would enter 
executive session "under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
[bargaining], IBPO, TOMEA, UE, votes to be taken."3 The minutes of these executive sessions 
have not been released to the public, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. We 
note, however, that the Board discussed how the proposed reorganization would affect the 
Town's bargaining position with respect to collective bargaining units. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter executive, or closed, session for 
certain purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. One such purpose is "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the discussion of the Reorganization Plan was not 
appropriate for discussion in executive session under Purpose 3. We disagree. Puipose 3 
broadly allows a public body to enter executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining any time doing so in open session may hurt the body's negotiating position. 
See OML 2013-84.4 Our review of the executive session minutes demonstrates that the Board's 
consideration of the Reorganization Plan was indivisible from its collective bargaining 
considerations. On these facts, we conclude that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing the Reorganization Plan during executive sessions convened pursuant to 
Purpose 3. See OML 2014-46. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Montague Select Board 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 We note that our office generally discourages the use of abbreviations in meeting notices. See OML 2014-138. 
4 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Jeffrey Singleton 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 