===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 128 
 
 
Sheffield Board of Selectmen 
c/o Rhonda LaBombard 
Sheffield Town Administrator 
Town Hall  
21 Depot Square 
Sheffield, MA 01257 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. LaBombard: 
 
This office received a complaint from Susan and Robert Butler on February 22, 2021, a 
second complaint on February 23, 2021, and a third complaint on March 15, 2021, alleging that 
the Sheffield Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 18, 2020; 
the second complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 20, 2021; the third 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 24, 2021; and Board Chair 
Rene Wood responded to all three complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letters dated December 
22, 2020, February 2, 2021, and March 1, 2021, respectively.  The first and third complaints 
allege that the minutes of Board meetings held on October 7, 2020, January 19, 2021, and 
February 1, 2021, are insufficiently detailed.  The second complaint alleges that the Board failed 
to review the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to accurately capture a statement made by the chair during the public comment period during the 
meeting held on February 1, 2021.  We find that the Board did not violate the law in the other 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  
In addition, we reviewed the notice and original and revised minutes of the Board meeting held 
on October 7, 2020, the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held on December 21, 2020, 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
January 19, 2021, and February 1, 2021, as well as audio recordings of the December 21, 2020, 
January 19, 2021, and February 1, 2021, meetings.1  We also spoke with you via telephone on 
August 19, 2021.2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held a retreat meeting in Tyringham, 
Massachusetts on October 7, 2020, that lasted approximately five and one-half hours.  The 
retreat meeting was an opportunity for Town Administrator Rhonda LaBombard to update the 
Board on various Town Departments and projects.   
  
The notice for the October 7, 2020, meeting listed 14 topics.  During each topic, Town 
Administrator LaBombard discussed numerous subjects, providing updates on various town 
public bodies, town departments, town policies, town equipment, building renovations, 
community host agreements, ongoing projects, and grants.  Each subject was identified in the 
minutes and included a short sentence reflecting the discussion or update.  Any motions or votes 
taken by the Board were also recorded in the minutes.   
 
The Board held a virtual meeting on December 21, 2020, during which the members 
discussed the first Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the Butlers at issue here.  Chair Rene 
Wood explained that the complaint had been forwarded to all members along with a draft letter 
and suggestions on revising certain portions of the October 7, 2020, minutes to include additional 
detail.  The minutes capture the discussion as follows: “Chairman Wood stated that the Board 
received an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Susan and Robert Butler regarding the Select 
Board minutes from their October 7, 2020, retreat meeting.  She stated that a draft letter to the 
Butlers along with suggested revisions to the October 7th minutes were sent to the Board and 
were also in the meeting packet for review.”  The Board then unanimously moved to accept the 
response letter and revise the October 7, 2020, minutes by including additional detail on several 
topics, including discussions relating to the departments that board members would oversee, 
Community Host Agreements, and the Board’s goals from previous retreats. 
 
The Board held a virtual meeting on January 19, 2021, during which the members 
discussed an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the Butlers.3  The minutes capture the 
discussion as follows: “Chairman Wood stated the Board received an Open Meeting Law 
complaint from Susan and Robert Butler regarding the November 24, 2020 Select Board meeting 
minutes. The Board reviewed a draft response letter to the Butlers.  Chairman Wood stated that 
Board [sic] revised the meeting minutes.”  The Board then unanimously moved to accept the 
response letter.  The minutes also list the documents used during the meeting and include “Open 
Meeting Law Complaint-Butler,” as well as the draft letter responding to the complaint.  
 
 
1 Audio recordings of the Board meetings held on December 21, 2020, January 19, 2021, and February 1, 2021, are 
available at https://ctsbtv.org/government-channel-1303/. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The complaint discussed during the January 19, 2021, meeting was filed by the Butlers on January 7, 2021, and 
related to the sufficiency of the minutes of the Board meeting held on November 24, 2020.  That complaint is not 
before this office for review.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
At the end of the January 19 meeting, the Board accepted public comment at which time 
Ms. Butler asked the Board if it had reviewed the entire eight-page complaint or just the two-
page complaint form.  Chair Wood responded that the Board had only reviewed the two-page 
complaint form.  The minutes reflect this discussion as follows: “Susan Butler inquired about her 
Open Meeting Law Complaint dated January 7, 2021.  Chairman Wood responded that she had 
read the complaint and that all Board members had received a copy.”  Although most of the 
meeting was recorded, technical difficulties occurred and the public comment portion of the 
meeting was not recorded.   
 
The Board held a virtual meeting on February 1, 2021, during which the members 
discussed the second Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the Butlers at issue here.  Chair 
Wood stated that the Board had no obligation to read the entire complaint, just enough to 
understand the allegations, and suggested that the complaint had no merit.  The minutes capture 
the discussion as follows: “Chairman Wood stated the Board received an Open Meeting Law 
complaint from Susan and Robert Butler regarding the Board’s December 21, 2020 meeting.  
She stated that the Board received a copy of the complaint along with a draft response letter to 
the Butlers in their meeting packet.  Chairman Wood stated that she had a conversation with the 
Attorney General’s Open Meeting Division and was informed that the Board does not have to 
read the entire complaint at a meeting.”  The Board then unanimously moved to accept the 
response letter.  The minutes also list the documents used during the meeting and include “Open 
Meeting Law Complaint-Butler,” as well as the draft letter responding to the complaint. 
 
At the end of the February 1 meeting, the Board accepted public comment at which time 
Ms. Butler asked the Board if it had reviewed the two-page Open Meeting Law Complaint form 
and all the attached pages or only the two-page form.  Chair Wood responded that she contacted 
the Attorney General’s Office and was advised that the Board was not required to review the 
entire complaint but enough to understand the allegations.  Ms. Butler then inquired when Chair 
Wood contacted the Attorney General’s Office.  Ms. Wood responded that she contacted the 
Office on January 22, 2021, but could not remember who she spoke with.  The minutes reflect 
this discussion as follows: “Susan Butler inquired about her Open Meeting Law Complaint dated 
January 20, 2021.  Chairman Wood responded that she had read the complaint and that all Board 
members had received a copy.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.4  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
I. The Board’s Minutes of the October 7, 2020, and January 19, 2021, 
Meetings are Sufficiently Detailed.  However, the Minutes of the Board’s 
February 1, 2021, Meeting Inaccurately Record the Chair’s Statements 
During the Public Comment Period.  
 
The first complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board meeting held on October 7, 
2020, failed to include an accurate summary of 15 topics that the Board discussed during the 
meeting.  According to Town Administrator LaBombard, the Board generally does not discuss 
most of the matters that she raises during retreat meetings but may occasionally provide 
comment, as was the case during the October 7, 2020, meeting.  During its December 21, 2020, 
meeting, the Board revised the minutes of the October 7, 2020, meeting to include additional 
detail with respect to several topics it discussed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting 
minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified 
topic; the law requires that the minutes summarize the discussions that were held.  See OML 
2019-167; OML 2018-8.  While the minutes do not include a lengthy recitation of the 
discussions that occurred on each matter, we find that the revised minutes adequately capture the 
substance of the discussions that occurred so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have an understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2020-
113. 
 
The complaint notes two instances where the minutes indicate that a “discussion ensued” 
without including further detail about those discussions.  The first instance includes a discussion 
about an Administrative Assistant position for various town public bodies and the second 
involves discussions about renovations to Town Hall.  With respect to both of these discussions, 
the minutes summarize Town Administrator LaBombard’s updates to the Board on both topics, 
including the Board’s motion and vote with respect to the Administrative Assistant position and 
that renovations to Town Hall involved interior work and replacement of the basement steps.  
Therefore, although the minutes do include language that a “discussion ensued,” we find that the 
Board also included enough additional detail to adequately capture the substance of the 
discussions that occurred.    
 
The third complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board meetings held on January 19, 
2021, and February 1, 2021, are inaccurate with respect to the list of documents used during the 
meeting.  All documents and exhibits used during a meeting of a public body must be listed in 
the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a 
document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is 
physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public 
body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  During each meeting, Chair Wood explained that the Board had 
received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Susan and Robert Butler and that a draft 
response was before the Board for review.  The minutes of each meeting list the document used 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
during the meeting as “Open Meeting Law Complaint-Butler.”  By listing the document as 
“Open Meeting Law complaint,” the complainants allege that the minutes are inaccurate because 
the Board only reviewed the two-page Open Meeting Law complaint form and not the entire 
Open Meeting Law complaints, which included 8 and 14 attached handwritten pages, 
respectively.  Even though the Board acknowledged that it did not read all the pages associated 
with the Open Meeting Law complaints, we find that the minutes sufficiently identify the 
discussions that occurred with respect to the complaints as well as the documents that the Board 
used during the meetings.  The Open Meeting Law does not require meeting minutes to specify 
the particular pages of a multi-page document that were discussed at a meeting in order for the 
list of documents used during the meeting to be considered accurate.  
 
This third complaint also alleges that the minutes failed to include certain statements 
made by Ms. Butler during the public comment period during both the January 19, 2021, and 
February 1, 2021, meetings.  As there is no recording of the January 19, 2021, meeting, we are 
unable to independently ascertain what exactly was said during public comment.  Even if we 
were able to determine what took place during the public comment portion of the January 19, 
2021, meeting, a public body is not required to capture every comment made during public 
comment in order to substantially comply with the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2021-4; OML 2019-136.  We find that the minutes capture a concise summary 
of Ms. Butler’s comments even though they do not capture her exact statements.  See OML 
2017-104; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented).  Therefore, we find no violation regarding the sufficiency of 
the public comment portion of the minutes of the January 19, 2021, meeting.   
 
With respect to the February 1, 2021, meeting minutes, we find that the Board did not 
accurately capture Chair Wood’s response to Ms. Butler during the public comment period.  To 
be “accurate,” meeting minutes must accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a 
meeting.  See OML 2020-62.  Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions that 
actually took place, it is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not 
discussed at a meeting.  Here, the minutes state “that Chairman Wood responded that she had 
read the complaint and that all Board members had received a copy.”  After reviewing the audio 
recording of the Board’s February 1, 2021, meeting, we find that the above statement recorded in 
the minutes does not accurately reflect the chair’s response.  Rather, Chair Wood responded that 
the Board was not required to review the entire complaint but only enough to understand the 
allegations.  She did not state that all Board members had received a copy of the complaint.  As 
such, we find that this statement in the minutes does not accurately reflect the discussion that 
occurred.  However, we find that the minutes do include a sufficiently accurate summary with 
respect to Ms. Butler’s comments even though they do not capture her exact statements.  See 
OML 2020-70.   
 
We take this opportunity to advise the Board of the Attorney General’s recommendations 
as to best practices for drafting meeting minutes.  In particular, when summarizing discussions, 
we encourage public bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions whenever possible.  
Where significant debate on a matter occurs and it is clear that one or more members of the body 
and/or the public disagree with the decision ultimately taken by the public body, public bodies 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
should note the opposing viewpoints in the meeting minutes.  Although it is not necessary to 
record the comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where 
there are many speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual speaks at 
some length or is the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and his 
or her comments should be identified in the minutes.  See OML 2014-108; OML 2013-47; OML 
2012-29.   
 
Furthermore, although not specifically raised in the complaints, we note that the minutes 
of the Board meetings held on December 21, 2020, January 19, 2021, and February 1, 2021, 
failed to record the roll call vote of each member.  The Attorney General’s Regulations require 
that “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll 
call vote,” even if a vote is unanimous.  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2020-82; OML 2015-
145.  After reviewing the audio recordings of the December 21, 2020, January 19, 2021, and 
February 1, 2021, meetings, which were held remotely, we note that the Board conducted all 
votes by roll call during each meeting.  However, the minutes of these meetings failed to record a 
roll call vote; the minutes simply record the votes as unanimous.  This does not satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirement that the vote of each member be recorded by roll call and entered in 
the minutes.  Even unanimous votes need to be recorded by roll call in the minutes.  See OML 
2015-131; OML 2013-195.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
II. The Board Followed Proper Procedure in Responding to an Open Meeting 
Law Complaint. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public 
body review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L.  
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a 
public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public 
body,” and “the public body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). 
Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to 
delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.   
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to review the entire Open Meeting 
Law complaint, comprised of 26 pages, that was filed on or about December 18, 2020.  Here, the 
Board indicated that it essentially reviewed the allegations contained within the two-page 
complaint form and did not review the additional 24 pages that were attached to the form.  While 
the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body review a complaint during a meeting, the 
body’s decision to review only portions of the complaint is the body’s prerogative.  Furthermore, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require the Board to substantively discuss the merit of each 
complaint in detail, nor to read a complaint in full during a meeting.  Rather, the law permits a 
body to vote to approve a response prepared by an individual, such as the chair or legal counsel.  
See OML 2018-34; OML 2017-67.  We have reviewed both the Open Meeting Law complaint 
form and the attached 24 pages and find that, while the additional 24 pages explain the specific 
insufficiencies in the minutes, the two-page form provides enough detail for the Board to 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
understand the basis of the complaint’s allegations.  We find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to accurately record one of the chair’s statements in the minutes of its February 1, 2021, 
meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged.  We order the Board to revise the February 1, 2021, meeting minutes to accurately 
reflect the chair’s response provided during the public comment period and to certify to this 
office within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter that it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 
29.07(4).  We also order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Susan and Robert Butler  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
