===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 14, 2016 
OML 2016-75 
James Carvalho, Chair 
Swansea School Committee 
1 Gardners Neck Road 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Carvalho: 
This office received two related complaints from Patrick Higgins alleging that the 
Swansea School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The first complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 29, 2016, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated April 12, 2016. This complaint was then filed with our 
office on May 17, 2016. The second complaint was filed with the Committee on April 12, 2016, 
and the Committee responded by letter dated April 28, 2016. This complaint was then filed with 
our office on May 4, 2016. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to post notice at least 48 hours prior to a meeting; (ii) 
posting a meeting notice that misidentified the section of the statute relied on for an executive 
session; (iii) failing to follow procedure prior to convening in executive session; and (iv) 
deliberating by whisper during an open meeting. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee's 
responses, and the requests for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed a 
video recording on the Town of Swansea website of a Committee meeting held on March 28, 
2016. Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to follow proper procedure prior to convening in executive session. However, we find 
that this violation was harmless, as the Committee provided sufficient notice to members of the 
public about the topic to be discussed. We find no violation with respect to the other allegations. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. On Thursday, March 24, 2016, the Committee posted notice at 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Swansea Town Hall of a meeting to be held on March 28, 2016. Friday, March 25, 2016 was 
Good Friday, and the Town website stated that the Town Hall would be closed on that date for 
the "Good Friday holiday." 
The March 28, 2016 meeting notice listed, among other topics, an anticipated executive 
session described as follows: "For the purpose of conducting a strategy session in preparation for 
negotiations with non-union personnel and conducting contract negotiations with non-union 
personnel (new superintendent, John J. Robidoux) M.G.L. Chapter 30-A, Section 21(2)." 
The Committee convened its March 28, 2016 meeting as planned. During the meeting. 
Committee member Joseph Salpietro made the following statement; "I make a motion that we go 
into executive session... for the purpose of conducting a strategy session in preparation for 
negotiations with non-union personnel, new superintendent John J. Robidoux, under Mass. 
General Laws chapter 30A, section 21 dash 2." Mr. Salpietro was not the Committee chair at the 
time. The Committee members, including the chair, then voted unanimously to enter executive 
session. 
DISCUSSION 
1. Because Good Friday is not a Legal Holiday, the Committee Met its Obligation for 
Posting Notice of the March 28, 2016 Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and that every 
notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Here, because Swansea Town Hall was closed on Friday, March 25, 2016 in observance 
of Good Friday, the complaint contends that the Committee failed to post notice of the March 28, 
2016 meeting at least 48 hours in advance, "excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." 
G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b). However, the General Laws provide a definition of "legal holiday" that 
does not include Good Friday. See G.L. c. 4, § 7. Because Good Friday is not a legal holiday 
under the General Laws, we conclude that the Committee posted notice with sufficient time prior 
to the March 28, 2016 meeting. 
II. While a Committee Member Other Than the Chair Announced the Purpose for the 
March 28. 2016 Executive Session, the Committee Provided the Public with the 
Necessary Information Required by the Law. 
A public body must list anticipated discussion topics on a meeting notice with sufficient 
specificity such that a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2016-60.1 
While meetings of public bodies typically need to be held in public view, a public body may 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
enter into a closed executive session for any of ten executive session purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a). To convene in executive session, a public body must identify the specific executive 
session pmpose it intends to invoke to justify the executive session, and provide as much detail 
as possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion without 
compromising the confidentiality of the executive session. See OML 2014-43; OML 2012-76; 
OML 2011-9. Before entering executive session, the chair must also state the purpose for the 
executive session in the same level of detail. G.L. c. BOA, §21(b)(3). 
Here, the complaint points to the reference on the March 28, 2016 meeting notice to 
"Chapter 30-A, Section 21(2)." As the complaint correctly states, the proper section of the 
statute is G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). However, despite this minor error, we conclude that the 
Committee provided sufficient information for the public to understand what would be discussed 
in executive session. During the meeting, Mr. Salpietro read from the meeting notice when 
making the required statement to enter executive session. This also satisfied the Committee's 
obligation under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee failed to follow proper procedure to 
enter into executive session because a Committee member other than the chair stated the purpose 
for the executive session. The Open Meeting Law specifically provides that the chair shall state 
the purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2013-170. The law 
requires "a precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session... because that is 
the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper." 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wavland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009). We 
find that the Committee violated the law because the Chair failed to publicly state the purpose for 
the executive session. However, because the Committee provided the public with sufficient 
notice of the topic to be discussed, thus complying with the Open Meeting Law's spirit of 
transparency, we find the violation to have been harmless. In the future, the Chair should repeat 
aloud the purpose for the executive session if first moved by another member of the Committee. 
III. The Committee Members did not Deliberate by Whisper During the Meeting. 
Finally, the complainant alleges that Committee members James Carvalho, Eric Graham, 
and Scott Rowland whispered to each other during the March 28, 2016 meeting. Our review of 
the meeting video did not reveal any instances of whispering among Committee members. 
While certain comments were difficult to discern due to microphone placement, we discern no 
improper communication between or among a quorum of the Committee members. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18 (defining "Deliberation"). We find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
in one respect. However, because we find the violation to be harmless, we order no relief. We 
now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
3 
===PAGE 4===
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 