===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 28, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 33 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kate M. Kleimola, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor  
kkleimola@cambridgema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kleimola: 
 
This office received a complaint from Young Kim on July 17, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Cambridge Cycling Safety Ordinance Advisory Committee (the “Committee”)2 violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the City of 
Cambridge on or about June 14, and you responded on behalf of the City by letter dated July 6. 
We understand the complaint to allege that the Committee failed to post notice for a May 23 
meeting.
3  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore cannot have violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the City’s response, the request 
for further review, the Committee’s webpage on the City’s website, the Committee’s charter, and 
summaries of Committee meetings held on March 10, April 25, May 23, July 25, and September 
26. We also reviewed video recordings of Cambridge City Council meetings held on December 
20, 2021; January 10, 2022; and January 31, 2022.
4 We also reviewed the City Council’s Policy 
Order 2021 #276. Finally, we communicated with you via email.   
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Committee is sometimes called the Cycling Safety Ordinance Implementation Advisory Committee  or the 
Cycling Safety Ordinance Advisory Group. We understand these names to refer to the Committee. 
3 The complaint also refers to a “Mass Ave Partial Construction Working Group.” Because it is unclear whether the 
complaint was intended to raise allegations regarding this group, we limit our review to the allegation against the 
Committee, which was clearly raised.  
4 Video recordings of Cambridge City Council meetings may be found at 
https://cambridgema.granicus.com/ViewPublisher.php?view_id=1. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
2 
 
 
  
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 10, 2022, the City Council passed Policy 
Order 2021 #276, creating the Committee. The Committee was created in response to public 
upset at the City’s implementation of its Cycling Safety Ordinance and the impact that 
implementation had on local businesses and residents. In Policy Order 2021 #276, the City 
Council instructed that the Committee should contain individuals from the following boards, 
commissions, and groups:  
 
[T]he Pedestrian Committee,  the Council on Aging, the Transit Advisory 
Committee, the Vision Zero Advisory Committee, the Commission for Persons 
with Disabilities Advisory Board, the Bicycle Committee, the Small Business 
Advisory Committee, the Interfaith Community, and others who could all be asked 
to participate to ensure that all the major stakeholders have an equal voice in 
receiving and reviewing concerns and making recommendations to mitigate these 
concerns, and to strengthen the City’s implementation of the bi cycle safety 
infrastructure. 
 
The Committee was formed to advise the City on community engagement, outreach, and 
implementation of the City’s Cycling Safety Ordinance, and provide input into how the Cycling 
Safety Ordinance implementation is evaluated. The Committee held several meetings, including 
on March 10, April 25, May 23, July 25, and September 26. The Committee’s meetings were 
organized and run by facilitators from the Consensus Building Institute and City staff. During the 
meetings, Committee members received presentations from City staff regarding the City’s 
projects and progress under the Cycling Safety Ordinance. Individual members asked questions 
of the facilitators and City staff and expressed their own concerns and provided their own 
suggestions for consideration by the City. Between 6 and 14 members attended each meeting. 
The Committee did not take any formal votes or issue any formal advisory opinions. Other than 
reaching consensus on certain housekeeping matters, the Committee did not make decisions. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies, which the law defines as any “multiple-
membe
r board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee 
is “any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” Id. 
As an initial matter, we must determine whether the Committee is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
To determine whether a multiple-me
 mber entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 1) whether the entity is “within” government 
and not excluded from the definition of “public body;” 2) whether the entity is a “body” 
empowered to act collectively; and 3) whether the entity serves a “public purpose.” See OML 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
3 
 
 
2019-135; OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.
5 
Here, the Committee is clearly within government where the City Council caused the Committee 
to be created by Policy Order 2021 #276.6 Likewise, the Committee serves a public purpose 
where the Committee was formed to advise the City on community engagement, outreach, and 
implementation of the City’s Cycling Safety Ordinance, and provide input into how the Cycling 
Safety Ordinance implementation is evaluated. Therefore, the Committee satisfies the first and 
third prongs of the public body analysis.  
 
In the past, our office has declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to advisory groups 
that fail the second prong of the public body analysis. For example, we concluded that the 
Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team was not a public body for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even though it was “within government” and served a 
“public purpose,” because the group “has no quorum requirement – [staff] meet with and solicit 
feedback from whichever members show up to meetings.” OML 2011-42. Likewise, we 
concluded that the North Adams Airport Planning Advisory Committee was not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law because the committee took no votes and issued no collective 
advisory opinion to the private company responsible for updating the airport’s master plan or to 
the Airport Commission. We found that, instead, the committee’s meetings were opportunities 
for members of the planning committee to efficiently provide their individual feedback and 
expertise regarding the airport’s master plan. OML 2022-54. Finally, we concluded that the 
Department of Environmental Protection’s Title 5/Groundwater Stakeholder Group was not a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law because the group “had no quorum requirement, 
meetings would proceed regardless of the number of attendees, and the Stakeholder Group did 
not take any votes.” OML 2023-231.   
 
 Here, we find that the Committee shares certain qualities with the groups discussed 
above. For example, although the Committee had a somewhat set membership and in general 
between 11 and 14 members attended the Committee’s meetings, the Committee would meet 
regardless of how many members were in attendance. Indeed, the Committee held at least one 
meeting where less than half of the members attended. Additionally, the Committee did not take 
any formal votes or issue any formal advisory opinions. Instead, individual members asked 
questions of the facilitators and City staff and provided their individual thoughts and suggestions 
for consideration by the City. For these reasons, we find that the Committee fails the second 
prong of the public body analysis and is therefore not a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. As such, the Committee cannot have violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
    
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Where we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law for the reasons  
stated, we need not address whether, as the City asse rts, the Committee falls within the exception set forth in 
Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an  
individual public official, who is not himself subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a group to “assist him in 
carrying out his responsibility,” that group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.  
Although we do not address the City’s assertion directly, we remind the City that in 2016, in a case presenting 
similar facts to those presented here, we rejected the City’s argument that a task force fell within the Connelly 
exception where the City Council ordered the City Manager to appoint and confer with the task force. OML 2016-
102. 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
4 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee, the City, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Cambridge City Council (via email: CityCouncil@CambridgeMA.GOV)  
 Yi-An Huang, City Manager (via email: citymanager@cambridgema.gov) 
Young Kim (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
