===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 17, 2024  
  
OML 2024 –  69 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Cathy Melanson, Chair 
Fairhaven Planning Board 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven MA 02719 
 
planningboard@fairhaven-ma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Ms. Melanson:  
 
This office received complaints from Jeffrey Lucas and Wayne Hayward on March 4, 
2024 and March 15, 2024, respectively, alleging that the Fairhaven Planning Board (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Jeffrey Lucas originally filed 
his complaint with the Board on February 5; Wayne Hayward filed his complaint on February 2.1  
You responded to both complaints on behalf of the Board by letters dated February 28.2  The 
complaints allege that a topic listed on the notice of the Board's January 9 meeting was not  
sufficiently specific.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ requests for further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and minutes of the meeting held on January 9, and viewed a 
recording of the January 9 meeting.
3   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On or about January 4, the Board posted notice of the 
January 9 meeting, which included as a topic of discussion “Planning Board decisions.”  The 
meeting went forward as scheduled.  When the Board reached the “Planning Board decisions” 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
2 Hereinafter, you are referred to in the third person. 
3 Recordings of the Board’s meetings can be accessed at https://vimeo.com/showcase/11047311  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
item, the chair announced that it had come to her attention that a member of the Board had 
approached permit applicants and explained to them what was required to comply with 
conditions imposed by the Board.4  The chair admonished the unidentified Board member, and 
explained that such interaction was the enforcement officer’s job, not the Board’s.  After making 
what appeared to be a prepared statement on the subject, lasting approximately three minutes, the 
chair invited comments from other members of the Board.  She called on each Board member in 
turn.  Board member Patrick Carr distributed a document he received from a permit applicant, 
suggesting that it was Board member Jeffrey Lucas that was the subject of the chair’s statement.  
In the ensuing discussion, Board member Lucas was repeatedly questioned by other Board 
members about his exchange with the applicant.  The discussion lasted approximately 30 
minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must include 
“a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  
The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.5  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Generic, boilerplate or placeholder topics lack sufficient specificity to satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-150; OML 2022-234; OML 2022-179; OML 2013-164.  The 
chair is required to list with specificity those topics they reasonably anticipate will be discussed.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  See also OML 2012-34.  For example, “Zoning By-Law changes” is not 
sufficiently specific, if a planning board anticipates discussing specific sections of the zoning by-
law.  See OML 2022-154.  Similarly, “Public Hearing: Proposed Commercial District,” was not 
sufficiently specific to satisfy the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-96. 
 
Here, the topic “Planning Board decisions” did not describe with sufficient specificity the 
discussion that the chair anticipated regarding one member’s allegedly improper contact with 
permit applicants.  Upon viewing a recording of the meeting, we are persuaded that the chair 
planned to make a statement to voice her concerns about contact with applicants and to invite 
other members’ comments.  In describing the topic as “Planning Board decisions,” the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law.    
 
 
4 This topic commences at approximately 27 minutes into the meeting recording. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
Without explicitly acknowledging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, the Board has
agreed that the notice could have provided more detail. We appreciate the Board's commitment
to ensure that notices will describe topics with sufficient specificity going forward. Finally,
although not required to reach our determination, we respond to two remarks within the filings.
In response to the complaint filed by Board Member Jeffrey Lucas, the Board enlists the
complainant to "assist in keeping [the Board] focused and on task." However, here it was the
chair who anticipated the discussion and invited a discussion among Board members; she could
not have expected Mr. Lucas to effectively end the discussion that the chair initiated. As to the
other complaint, Wayne Howard suggests that it was not properly considered and discussed by
the Board. To the extent that Mr. Howard alleges an independent violation of the Open Meeting
Law, we note that an allegation that a complaint was not reviewed in conformance with the Open
Meeting Law must be raised in a separate, subsequent complaint. See OML Declination 5-23-20
(Uxbridge Board of Selectmen). This allows the public body an opportunity to investigate and
take appropriate remedial action in response to the additional allegations. See G.L. c. 30A, §
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Therefore, we decline to review the allegation that Mr. Lucas's
complaint was not reviewed in conformance with the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its January 9 meeting. We order immediate and
future compliance with the law's requirements and we caution that similar future violations may
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt fou
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Wayne Hayward (via email:
Jeffrey Lucas (via email:
Fairhaven Town Administrator (via email: alopesellison@fairhaven-ma.gov)
Fairhaven Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov)
3
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  