===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 15,2019 
OML 2019-46
Ivria Glass Fried, Esq.
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Fried:
This office received a complaint from Warren Brown on January 22, 2019, alleging 
that the Carlisle Board of Selectmen (the “Board’) and the Carlisle Affordable Housing Trust 
(the “Trust”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board and the Trust on or about December 20, 2018, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of both bodies, by letter dated January 11, 2019. In his 
complaint, Mr. Brown alleges that a draft version of the Trust’s October 30, 2018, meeting 
minutes failed to list two exhibits used during the meeting and that the Trust failed to timely 
approve those minutes.1 Additionally, Mr. Brown alleges that the Board’s November 13, 
2018, meeting minutes failed to list an exhibit used during the meeting.2
1 Mr. Brown also alleges that the Trust and the Board each failed to respond to his request for a copy of a 
recording of a meeting and/or the chair’s notes from that meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not govern a 
public body’s obligation to respond to requests for records other than meeting minutes. Rather, those requests 
fall under the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10. See OML 2014-45; OML Declination 7-7-14. Therefore, 
we decline to review these allegations. We encourage Mr. Brown to contact the Supervisor of Records within 
the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records Division, if he has not done so already.
2 In several emails to our office, Mr. Brown raises additional issues that were not raised in the complaint filed 
with the Board and the Trust, most of which pertain generally to the functioning of local government, affordable 
housing and municipal spending that are not governed by the Open Meeting Law. For those reasons, we decline 
to review them. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML Declination 9-18-17 (Hubbardston Board of Selectmen); see also 
OML Declination 7-2-18 (Edgartown Planning Board) (“The Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law”).
o

===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list a document in its November 13, 2018, meeting minutes. However, we find no 
violation with respect to the other allegations cited in the complaint. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board and Trust’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the Trust’s October 30, 2018, meeting minutes and the Board’s November 13, 2018, 
meeting minutes.
FACTS
The Trust approved its October 18, 2018, meeting minutes after the filing of this 
complaint, at its meeting on January 10, 2019, which was its second meeting after the October 
18 meeting. The Board initially approved its November 13, 2018, meeting minutes on 
December 11, 2018, which was its second subsequent meeting. Those minutes summarized a 
written statement that Board member Nathan Brown had distributed to the Board and read 
aloud during the meeting regarding the Carlisle Housing Authority and the Trust. The 
minutes did not list this written statement as a document used during the meeting. Upon the 
filing of this complaint, the Board revised the November 13 meeting minutes on January 8, 
2019, to list the written statement as a document used during the meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.3
The Open Meeting Law also requires all documents and exhibits used during a 
meeting of a public body to be listed in the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting 
Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, 
it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are 
discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
I. The Trust’s October 30, 2018 Meeting Minutes
The complainant alleges that the draft minutes of the Trust’s October 30, 2018, 
meeting failed to include two exhibits used by the Trust during the meeting and that the Trust 
failed to approve those minutes in a timely manner. In its response, the Trust points out that 
the minutes were in draft form at the time this complaint was filed, and were not approved 
until January 30, 2018, the second subsequent meeting thereafter. A public body may revise 
draft minutes at any point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail. 
Accordingly, because these minutes remained in draft form at the time of this complaint, we 
find that the Trust did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-13; OML 2014-7. 
The final, approved version of the minutes did list the exhibits used during the meeting, as 
required. Furthermore, by approving the minutes on the second subsequent meeting 
following the October 30 meeting, the Trust complied with the requirements for the timely 
approval of minutes. See 940 CMR 29.11(2). Therefore, the Trust did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.
II. The Board’s November 13, 2018 Meeting Minutes
The complainant alleges that the Board’s November 13, 2018, meeting minutes failed 
to list an exhibit, and instead pasted the text of the document into the minutes. Here, a Board 
member prepared a written list of “talking points” regarding the Housing Authority and the 
Affordable Housing Trust that he had read aloud and distributed to the other Board members 
during the meeting. At the time this complaint was filed, the approved minutes did not list it 
as a document or exhibit used by the Board; however, much of this document is transcribed in 
the meeting minutes. Because the document was physically present, verbally identified, and 
its contents were read aloud by the Board member, we conclude it constitutes a document 
“used” by the Board during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-42. Therefore, 
the Board’s failure to separately list it as a document used at the meeting is a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. We commend the Board for taking prompt corrective action upon receipt 
of Mr. Brown’s Open Meeting Law complaint by amending its minutes to list the document 
used during the meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to list a document in its November 13, 2018, meeting minutes, but that the Board 
had already taken corrective action by the time the Complaint was filed with our office. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Trust, 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have
3

===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Warren Brown
Carlisle Board of Selectmen 
Carlisle Affordable Housing Trust
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
