===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 7 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas Millias 
Chair, Halifax Board of Selectmen 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Millias: 
 
This office received a complaint from Amy Troup on August 25, 2020,1 alleging that the 
Halifax Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 23, and the Board responded by 
letter dated July 30. The complaint alleges that 1) the Complainant was not provided with 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint form lists as the subjects of the complaint two Board members, the Town Administrator, the staff 
Secretary of the Conservation Commission, and the Chair of the Conservation Commission. In subsequent 
communication with our office, the Complainant explained that she intended to list the entire Board as the subject of 
the complaint. To the extent the Complainant also intended to file the complaint against the Town Administrator and 
staff Secretary of the Conservation Commission, we note that the Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies 
and their members; therefore, we decline to review any allegations that the Town Administrator or staff Secretary of 
the Conservation Commission violated the Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Similarly, although the complaint form 
lists the Chair of the Conservation Commission, we understand the complaint to pertain to a discussion held by the 
Board during one of its meetings. Therefore, our review of this complaint is limited to whether the Board and its 
members violated the Open Meeting Law.   

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
individual notice of the Board’s June 23 meeting at which she was discussed, and 2) the Board 
included an insufficiently detailed topic on the notice for its June 23 meeting.3,4       
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by including an 
insufficiently detailed topic on the notice for its June 23 meeting. We find the Board did not 
violate the Law in the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice and 
minutes of the June 23 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. Public bodies are 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.5 The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to provide individual notice of any meeting, except when 
convening in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  
 
Included on the notice for the Board’s June 23 meeting was the topic “Request by 
Conservation Commission to barring [sic] her from any interactions with the Conservation 
Commission and Conservation Commission Administrative Assistant Theresa Renaud.” Because 
the Complainant was not the subject of an executive session discussion under Purpose 1, the 
Board was not obligated to provide the Complainant with individual notice of the June 23 
meeting. See OML 2020-116. 
 
Although the Board was not required to provide the Complainant with individual notice 
of the meeting, we find, and the Board acknowledges in its response, the notice of the June 23 
meeting was insufficiently detailed where it used the word “her” instead of listing the 
Complainant’s name. See OML 2013-71; OML 2014-102 (“Public bodies should include the 
names of relevant parties in meeting notices whenever possible.”); OML 2013-55; OML 2020-
164. The Board explains that the Complainant’s name was omitted from the June 23 meeting 
notice by mistake. Although there are circumstances in which it is not necessary to include the 
name of an individual to be discussed on the meeting notice, we find here that the exclusion of 
 
3 The complaint also states that “the fact that it is an article in the newspaper is defamatory in nature at best.” To the 
extent the Complainant alleges that the publishing of a newspaper article has violated the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review this allegation. An allegation that a newspaper article is defamatory does not allege a violation 
Open Meeting Law. The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance only with the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 25. See OML 2019-85; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners).  
4 The Complainant raised additional concerns in her request to our office for further review. To the extent any of 
these concerns might allege violations of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review them as they were not raised 
in an original complaint filed with the Board. See OML 2019-76; OML 2012-92.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the Complainant’s name rendered the June 23 meeting notice insufficiently detailed. See OML 
2020-21 (finding that where a public body amended its meeting notice to include the full list of 
nonunion personnel positions to be discussed in executive session, the notice was sufficiently 
detailed); OML 2019-37 (finding that, when meeting in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(2), a public body’s decision not to identify a grievant by name on a meeting notice out of 
respect for the individual’s privacy was appropriate).  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including an insufficiently detailed topic on the notice for its June 23 meeting. We find that the 
Board did not violate the Law in the other way alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
  
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Amy Troup (via email:   
Charlie Seelig, Halifax Town Administrator (via e-mail: ) 
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
