===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 100 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kathleen Connolly, Esq. 
Assistant Town Attorney  
Town of Barnstable 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Connolly: 
 
This office received a complaint from John Crow on September 13, 2020,1 alleging that 
the Barnstable Town Council’s (the “Council”) Committee to Review Zoning and Permitting 
Regulations (the “Committee”), and specifically Councilors Paula Schnepp, Jennifer Cullum, 
and Britt Beedenbender, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 The complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on July 2, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee by letters dated July 14 and 22.3 The complaint alleges that Councilors Schnepp, 
Cullum, and Beedenbender deliberated via text message and email outside of a noticed meeting, 
and that Councilors Cullum and Beedenbender discussed using FaceTime and text messaging to 
circumvent the Open Meeting Law with respect to a meeting held on April 28.4        
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 It is our understanding that Councilors Schnepp and Cullum no longer serve on the Committee, and that Ms. 
Beedenbender is no longer a Councilor.   
3 It appears from the two responses to the complaint that the Committee may not have met to review the complaint 
and formulate a response or delegate authority to respond before a response was sent to the Complainant. We remind 
the Committee of its obligation to comply with all requirements of the Open Meeting Law, including the 
requirement to meet to review a complaint before responding or delegating authority to respond. See 940 CMR 
29.05(5); OML 2020-164. 
4 We decline to review the additional allegations raised in the request for further review and subsequent 
communications with our office because they were not raised in a formal Open Meeting Law complaint filed with 
the Board. See OML 2020-3; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee).  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee, and specifically Councilors Schnepp, Cullum, and 
Beedenbender, violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Committee deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting via text message. We do not find a violation with respect to the 
meeting held on April 28. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s responses, the request for further review, additional communications 
from the Complainant, and additional information provided by the Committee in response to 
requests from our office. We also communicated with Counsel for the Committee5 by email.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee is a five-member body; therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum. In the fall of 2019 and spring of 2020, the Committee was 
considering policy issues and drafting a new ordinance related to short-term rental properties. 
Between December 2019 and May 2020,6 Councilor’s Schnepp, Cullum, and Beedenbender 
exchanged a number of text messages and a few emails regarding, among other things, short-
term rentals, the draft ordinance, and scheduling Committee meetings.  
 
On March 27 Councilor Cullum, via text message, forwarded to Councilors Schnepp and 
Beedenbender an announcement from the Provincetown Board of Health (the “PBH”) regarding 
short-term rentals in light of an executive order issued by the Governor on March 23 in response 
to the public health emergency created by Covid-19. A text exchange ensued. Councilor Schnepp 
responded first, thanking Councilor Cullum for sharing the PBH announcement and informing 
Councilors Cullum and Beedenbender that the Committee had been asked to reschedule its next 
meeting due to a conflict with an upcoming Town Council meeting. Councilor Cullum then 
asked Councilors Schnepp and Beedenbender if they thought the Committee should ask the 
Barnstable Board of Health (the “BBH”) to issue a similar statement to the one issued by the 
PBH. Councilor Schnepp responded that it was “[d]efinitely worth considering,” and Councilor 
Beedenbender replied, “Yes – and we should pass our ordinance and then move on to what we 
can do in regards to zoning to assist recovery.” The Councilors exchanged a few text messages 
regarding whether and how to ask the BBH to issue a statement. That exchange ended when 
Councilor Cullum sent a text message informing the other two Councilors that she had copied 
them on an email she had just sent to John Norman, chair of the BBH, making the request. 
Indeed, on March 27, Councilor Cullum sent an email to Mr. Norman, copying Councilors 
Schnepp and Beedenbender, asking Mr. Norman if he “could issue [a] memorandum supporting 
and reiterating the state ordered self-quarantine for out of state residents,” and explaining to Mr. 
Norman that the Committee was “hoping to pass some formal legislation with regard to Air BnB 
as soon as possible- but in the meantime I have had constituents ask if they should be renting to 
people from NYC or not.”  
 
On April 22, Councilor Cullum sent a text message to Councilors Schnepp and 
Beedenbender explaining that she wanted to schedule a meeting, to take place over Zoom, with 
the three Councilors, the Assistant Town Manager, and the Town Council President, who did not 
 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
6 Although some of the text messages we reviewed are undated, we understand the timeframe of the text messages 
and emails to be December 2019 through May 2020. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
serve on the Committee. In response, Councilor Schnepp pointed out that she, Councilor Cullum, 
and Councilor Beedenbender would constitute a quorum of the Committee. In response, 
Councilor Beedenbender suggested that she forgo attending the meeting and that only Councilors 
Cullum and Schnepp attend. Councilor Cullum replied stating “Britt [Councilor Beedenbender] 
let’s talk so I’m sure I express your concerns in the mtg.” The meeting was scheduled for April 
28. 
 
On April 27, Councilor Cullum sent a text message to Councilor Beedenbender in 
advance of the April 28 meeting asking Councilor Beedenbender “[w]hat do you want me to ask 
[in the meeting]? Maybe I’ll[] FaceTime you [a]t the same time?” Councilor Beedenbender 
responded “[FaceTime] sounds good – I can text with questions 1) what can we do that is 
enforceable given the new economic reality? 2) include language that we will revisit in one year 
after we have had a chance to collect data after we implement initial ordinance.” The meeting 
took place on April 28 via Zoom with Councilor Schnepp, Councilor Cullum, the Assistant 
Town Manager, and the Town Council President in attendance. Councilor Beedenbender did not 
attend this meeting via FaceTime or any other means. 
 
In an April 30 text exchange between the three Councilors, Councilor Cullum stated 
“Let’s say 1000 times tonight that no law is being passed. There is AMPLE room for more 
public comment at zba and tc . . . Before a vote is taken.” Councilor Beedenbender responded  
“Yes yes yes.” Additional text messages and emails reviewed by our office related to scheduling 
meetings, matters not within the Council’s jurisdiction, or appear to have been exchanged 
between only two Councilors.  
 
On June 30, in response to a public records request, the Complainant was provided with 
the text messages and emails described above. 
    
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law states, in relevant part, that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Except when 
convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a).  
 
A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
The Law excludes from the definition of “deliberation” “the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” Id. A “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. A one-
way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.7 A public 
body may not engage in serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-
contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject within the public body’s jurisdiction. 
See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 
(2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law 
and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
I. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law When a Quorum of the Committee 
Deliberated Via Text Message. 
The complaint alleges that Councilors Schnepp, Cullum, and Beedenbender deliberated 
via text message and email. The Committee responds, with respect to the March 27 text 
messages, that no deliberation occurred because 1) in forwarding the PBH’s statement, Councilor 
Cullum was simply sharing information with the other Councilors; 2) Councilor Schnepp’s reply 
related only to scheduling a meeting; 3) Councilor Beedenbender’s reply “Yes – and we should 
pass our ordinance and then move on to what we can do in regards to zoning to assist recovery” 
was not meant to encourage her fellow Councilors to vote a particular way, but rather to 
encourage that they take a vote and move on to other matters; and 4) the discussion of whether 
and how to ask the BBH to issue a statement was not a matter within the Committee’s 
jurisdiction because the Committee does not have authority over the BBH.  
 
We find that Councilors Schnepp, Cullum, and Beedenbender improperly deliberated via 
text message on March 27 and April 30. With respect to the Committee’s assertion that the 
March 27 text exchange did not constitute deliberation, we agree that the portions of the March 
27 text exchange related to asking the BBH to issue a statement and to rescheduling a meeting do 
not constitute deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. However, we find that Councilor 
Beedenbender’s statement “we should pass our ordinance and then move on” does constitute 
deliberation outside of a noticed meeting. 
 
With respect to the text messages regarding the PBH’s statement and whether the 
Committee should ask the BBH to issue a similar statement, the Committee asserts that this was 
not a matter within its jurisdiction and therefore did not constitute deliberation. We agree and 
find that the discussions related to asking the BBH to issue a statement regarding self-quarantine 
and out-of-state visitors was not a matter within the Committee’s jurisdiction. See OML 2021-90 
(finding that a regional school committee did not deliberate when a quorum communicated 
regarding the purpose and conduct of meetings held by other public bodies because the conduct 
of other public bodies’ meetings was not a matter within the school committee’s jurisdiction).  
Here, the Councilors simply discussed whether to ask another public body to issue a statement; 
the Committee had no authority to require the BBH to issue a statement nor were the Councilors 
discussing whether the Committee itself should issue a statement. Compare OML 2021-90, with 
OML 2021-35 (finding that a public body’s decision regarding whether it would issue a formal 
statement, and the content of such statement, expressing its stance on a particular matter was 
public business within the body’s jurisdiction). Likewise, we find that Councilor Schnepp’s 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
March 27 text message regarding rescheduling a meeting did not constitute deliberation because 
it falls within the exception to the definition of “deliberation” for communications related to 
scheduling. G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
Although we find the majority of the March 27 text exchange does not constitute 
deliberation outside of a meeting, we find that Councilor Beedenbender’s statement “we should 
pass our ordinance and then move on” does constitute deliberation outside of a meeting. The 
Committee asserts that this text does not constitute deliberation because Councilor Beedenbender 
did not intend to advocate that her fellow Councilors vote a particular way with respect to the 
ordinance, but rather that the Committee take a vote so that it could turn to other matters. 
Regardless of any intent to influence a vote, Councilor Beedenbender shared her opinion among 
a quorum of the Committee regarding the draft ordinance and how the Committee should 
proceed with respect to the ordinance, both matters squarely within the Committee’s jurisdiction. 
See OML 2013-186; OML 2016-31; OML 2021-41. Similarly, Councilor Cullum’s April 30 text 
“Let’s say 1000 times tonight that no law is being passed. There is AMPLE room for more 
public comment at zba and tc . . . Before a vote is taken,” and Councilor Beedenbender’s 
response “Yes yes yes” also constituted improper deliberation outside of a meeting as they 
communicated to a quorum of the Committee the Councilors’ thoughts and opinions about how 
to handle particular matters at an upcoming meeting. See OML 2015-139 (“The Open Meeting 
Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for procedural 
discussions among public body members about how its meetings should be run.”). For the 
reasons stated above, we find that Councilors Schnepp, Cullum, and Beedenbender improperly 
deliberated via text message on March 27 and April 30.  
 
II. The Committee Did Not Violate the Law When Less Than a Quorum Attended the 
April 28 Meeting and We Find No Evidence of Serial Communication.  
The complaint alleges that Councilors Cullum and Beedenbender discussed using 
FaceTime and text messaging to circumvent the Open Meeting Law by allowing a quorum of the 
Committee to attend a meeting for which notice had not been posted. The Committee responds 
that a quorum of the Committee did not attend the April 28 meeting, and specifically, that 
“Councilor Beedenbender did not participate [in the meeting] by Facetime or any other means.”  
 
In two text message exchanges, Councilors Cullum and Beedenbender clearly expressed 
an intent to circumvent the Open Meeting Law by deliberating among a quorum of the 
Committee either directly or in a serial fashion. On April 22, after Councilor Schnepp pointed 
out that the three Councilors would constitute a quorum and Councilor Beedenbender offered not 
to attend the April 28 meeting, Councilor Cullum responded saying “Britt [Councilor 
Beedenbender] let’s talk so I’m sure I express your concerns in the mtg,” and Councilor 
Beedenbender replied “That’s fine with me.” On April 27, the day before the April 28 meeting, 
Councilor Cullum wrote to Councilor Beedenbender “I have a 9 am zoom with paul paula and 
andy re: STR direction. What do you want me to ask? Maybe I’ll[] FaceTime you [a]t the same 
time?” and Councilor Beedenbender responded “FT sounds good – I can text you with questions 
1) what can we do that is enforceable given the new economic reality? 2) include language that 
we will revisit in one year after we have had a chance to collect data after we implement initial 
ordinance.” In our investigation, we asked the Committee, noting the two text message 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
exchanges described above, if Councilor Beedenbender’s questions and concerns regarding the 
subject matter of the April 28 meeting were shared in any way with those in attendance at the 
April 28 meeting. The Committee responded that Councilor Beedenbender did not communicate 
with Councilors Cullum or Schnepp regarding the subject matter of the April 28 meeting and that 
no notes were taken during the April 28 meeting.  
 
Although the April 22 and 27 text messages strongly suggest that Councilor Cullum 
intended to share Councilor Beedenbender’s questions and concerns regarding the subject matter 
of the April 28 meeting among a quorum of the Committee in a serial fashion, we lack specific 
evidence that Councilors Cullum and Beedenbender did, in fact, engage in serial communication, 
and the Committee denies that Councilor Cullum relayed Councilor Beedenbender’s questions or 
concerns during the April 28 meeting. We therefore do not find that the Councilors violated the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to the April 28 meeting. See OML 2013-27. Nevertheless, we 
note our concern regarding the apparent planning to communicate in a manner that would violate 
the Law, and we remind the Committee that a public body may not engage in a serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. 
Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the 
spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law); OML 
2020-160.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee, and specifically Councilors 
Schnepp, Cullum, and Beedenbender, violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the 
Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting via text message. We do not find a violation 
with respect to the meeting held on April 28. We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Because the text messages and email at issue 
in this matter have already been released to the public, we do not order any further remedial 
action. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
cc: Councilor Paul Neary, Chair, Barnstable Town Council’s Committee to Review Zoning 
and Permitting Regulations (via e-mail:  
 Councilor Paula Schnepp (via e-mail:  
 Councilor Jennifer Cullum (via e-mail:  
John Crow (via e-mail:   
  
 
 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
