===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
wwvv.mass.gov/ago  
June 24, 2012 
OML 2013 - 83 
Jordan C. Collyer, Chair 
Mattapoisett Board of Selectmen 
Office of the Selectmen 
16 Main Street, PO Box 435 
Mattapoisett, MA 02739 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Collyer: 
This office received a complaint on December 31, 2012, filed by Mr. Paul Lopes of The 
Wanderer, alleging that the Mattapoisett Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about November 27, 2012, and the Board responded to the complaint by letter dated May 13, 
2013.1  In his complaint, Mr. Lopes alleges that the Board improperly withheld executive session 
minutes concerning former Recreation Director Gretchen MacDonald. 
We reviewed the November 27, 2012 complaint, which was filed with our office on 
December 31, 2012, and the Board's May 13, 2013 response. We also reviewed the 
complainant's request for records, dated November 15, 2012, along with the Board's response, 
dated November 27, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
withholding executive session minutes from disclosure because no meeting was held regarding 
the issue identified in the request, thus the requested minutes do not exist. However, we find that 
the Board violated the Law by failing to respond within fourteen business days of receipt of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
November 15, 2012, the complainant submitted a request for "any and all minutes and records 
from the Town of Mattapoisett with regard to the disposition of former Recreation Director 
Gretchen MacDonald...As the action of the Board with regard to Ms. MacDonald has been 
We received the Board's response on May 17, 2013. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
completed we are also requesting all records from Executive Sessions that have been held with 
regard to this matter." On November 27, 2012, the Board responded in writing, withholding any 
responsive records under exemptions (a) and (c) of the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. 
Specifically as it related to any meeting minutes, the Board stated that the records of any 
executive sessions were withheld from disclosure under exemption (a), by statute, the Open 
Meeting Law, and may remain secret as long as publication would defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session. See G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(a). That same day, the complainant filed this 
complaint with the Board. The Board did not respond to the complaint within fourteen business 
days of its receipt, and the complainant sought further review of the matter by filing a copy of 
the original complaint with our office on December 31, 2012. On January 7, 2013, we sent a 
letter to the Board reminding it of its obligation to respond to the complaint, noting that if we did 
not receive a response by January 22, 2013, we would review the complaint based on the 
information that was before us. At no time did the Board request an extension of time to respond 
to the complaint. Since we did not receive any response from the Board by January 22, 2013, we 
commenced our review and sent a letter on January 30, 2013 requesting certain documents and 
information from the Board. 
Following repeated inquiries by our office regarding the status of its response to our 
request, the Board convened a meeting on May 13, 2013 to discuss its response to the complaint. 
In the response received by our office on May 17, 2013, the Board states that it incorrectly 
responded to the complainant's November 15, 2012 request by asserting exemption (a) of the 
Public Records Law to withhold executive session minutes and records. In fact, the Board 
asserts, there were no records responsive to the request because the Board never held a meeting, 
in either open or closed session, to discuss former Recreation Director Gretchen MacDonald. 
The Board has offered no explanation for why it initially responded as though there were 
responsive records, or why it took nearly six months from the filing of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint to discover the error. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes of an executive session "may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-
sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee,  402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
The Board's November 27, 2012 response to the complainant's records request asserted 
that certain executive session records were exempt from disclosure under the Public Records 
Law. Upon further review, however, the Board determined it did not have any responsive 
records because it never convened an executive session to discuss former Recreation Director 
Gretchen MacDonald. We have not been presented with any evidence to the contrary. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not providing 
2 
===PAGE 3===
records because there were no minutes responsive to the complainant's request. 
However, the Board did violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the 
complaint in a timely manner. The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days 
after receiving a complaint the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). At no point 
did the Board request an extension of time to respond to the complaint or provide a reason for its 
delay. By taking nearly six months to respond to the complaint, the Board clearly failed to 
comply with the Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint within fourteen business days. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We also order the Board to 
review the Open Meeting Law Guide, available at the Attorney General's Open Government 
website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting,  and certify in writing to this office, within thirty (30) 
days of the date of this letter, that its members have reviewed this determination and the Guide. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Paul Lopes, Editor, The Wanderer 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq., Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 