===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 22, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 51 
 
 
Barbara Craft-Reiss 
Chair, School Committee 
Central Berkshire Regional School District 
254 Hinsdale Road 
Dalton, MA 01226 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Craft-Reiss:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Diver on December 6, 2021, alleging that 
the Central Berkshire Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about October 28, and you2 responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 
15.  The complaint alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently specific notice for its 
October 28 meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Committee meetings held on 
September 23, October 28, and November 10.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee has several subcommittees, one of which is 
the Safety and Wellness Subcommittee.  During a September 1 meeting, the Safety and Wellness 
Subcommittee discussed Covid-19 Pool Testing for athletic and extra-curricular participants, 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
which would require athletes and members of school sponsored extra-curricular activities to 
consent to and participate in weekly Covid testing. 
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 23 at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice listed ten topics, including “Subcommittee Reports and Recommendations.”  This 
topic then listed the Committee’s various subcommittees and included specific item descriptions 
that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed by each subcommittee.  Specifically, 
the Safety and Wellness Subcommittee included a subheading for “Report.” 
 
The September 23 meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the first four noticed 
topics, the Committee then received reports from its subcommittees.  Committee member Nicole 
Tucker, who is also a member of the Safety and Wellness Subcommittee, discussed the need for 
routine Covid tests for those students participating in athletics and extra-curricular activities.  
The Committee then unanimously voted to “support routine Covid safety tests for athletics and 
extra-curricular participants, as recommended by the Safety and Wellness Subcommittee.”   
   
On or about October 17, the complainant notified Committee Chair Barbara Craft-Reiss 
that the topic listed on the September 23 notice with respect to the Safety and Wellness 
Subcommittee Report was insufficiently detailed.  Chair Craft-Reiss agreed that this topic could 
have included additional detail and advised that a more detailed topic would be placed on the 
notice for the Committee’s next meeting to be held on October 28.     
   
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 28 at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice listed ten topics, including “Subcommittee Reports and Recommendations.”  This 
topic again listed the subcommittees and included specific item descriptions that further advised 
the public of the topics to be discussed by each subcommittee.  Specifically, the Safety and 
Wellness Subcommittee included a subheading for “Report/Pool Testing Discussion and Vote.” 
 
The October 28 meeting was held as planned.  The Committee first received comments 
from members of the public and a report from the high school student representative.  The 
Committee then heard from the Safety and Wellness Subcommittee which provided updates on 
available vaccine clinics, Covid booster shots, vaccination status of students, a mask mandate, 
and the interaction of athletes on buses and with other schools.  Committee member Tucker then 
made a motion that “the Central Berkshire Regional School Committee support a district 
mandate to provide routine Covid safety tests for athletes and extra-curricular participants, as 
amended [sic] by the Safety & Wellness Subcommittee.”  The Committee discussed the need for 
pool testing among athletes and extra-curricular participants and the possibility of revisiting the 
need for such testing if vaccination rates increase.  The Committee then voted unanimously on 
the motion to support a district mandate for routine Covid tests for athletes and students 
participating in extra-curricular activities.  
 
On October 28, the complainant filed the Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here 
alleging that the notice posted by the Committee for its October 28 meeting was insufficiently 
specific with respect to the Safety and Wellness Subcommittee report.  
  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 10 at 6:00 P.M.  
The notice listed five topics, including “Communications.”  This topic then included specific 
item descriptions that further advised the public of the topic to be discussed.  Specifically, this 
topic included a subheading for “Report of the Chair/Discussion and Vote Regarding Mandating 
Pool Testing for the Remainder of the 2021-2022 School Year for Student Athletes and Those 
Students Involved in Extra-Curricular Activities.” 
 
The November 10 meeting was held as planned.  As during the previous two meetings, 
the Committee discussed the need for masks and pool testing among athletes and extra-curricular 
participants.  The Committee then unanimously voted that “the Central Berkshire Regional 
School Committee support a district mandate to provide routine Covid safety tests for athletes 
and extra-curricular participants, as recommended by the Safety & Wellness Subcommittee.”   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.3   
 
The complaint alleges that the topic listed for the Report of the Safety and Wellness 
Subcommittee, “Pool Testing Discussion and Vote,” on the October 28 meeting notice lacked 
sufficient specificity.  Although the topic correctly identified the general nature of the 
Committee’s anticipated discussion, the notice should have included additional details about the 
specific nature of the anticipated discussion (i.e. Covid pool testing for athletes and students 
involved in extra-curricular activities in particular).  Though the Open Meeting Law does not 
require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion, it requires public bodies 
to identify the anticipated discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a notice that reasonably advised the 
public of the of the anticipated issues to be discussed during the October 28 meeting.    
 
However, the Committee took prompt remedial action in response to the complaint by 
posting a sufficiently specific notice for its November 10 meeting and discussing and voting 
again to support a district mandate to provide routine Covid safety tests for athletes and extra-
curricular participants.  Although we acknowledge the role of the complainant in bringing this 
issue to the Committee’s attention to secure compliance with the law, in situations where, as 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
occurred here, a public body takes corrective action in response to a complaint, we encourage 
complainants to consider whether filing a complaint with our office is necessary.  See OML 
2020-34; OML 2017-191; OML 2016-159. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by providing insufficient specificity in its October 28 meeting notice with regard to the 
discussion of Covid testing for athletes and extra-curricular participants.  However, we find that 
the Committee adequately remedied the violation during its November 10 meeting.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joseph Diver – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
