===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 17, 2015 
OML 2015-133 
Wayne Oliveira, Chair 
Fairhaven Beautification Committee 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Oliveira: 
This office received two related complaints from Karen Vilandry, both dated August 14, 
alleging that the Fairhaven Beautification Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on June 9, and the second complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 
14. The Committee responded to both by letter dated August 13. In her complaints, Mr. 
Vilandry alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to respond to 
a request for open session minutes within the time frame required by law; and (ii) creating 
inaccurate meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to a request for meeting minutes within the time frame required by law. 
However, we find that the minutes created by the Committee are substantially accurate. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a Committee 
meeting held on February 19. Finally, we listened to an audio recording of the February 19 
Committee meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee held a meeting on February 19. During this 
meeting, the Committee discussed cobblestones and mulch that had been placed in a park. The 
complainant, who was a member of the Committee at the time, criticized the appearance of the 
work that had been done in the park. The minutes state that Committee member Gary Lavalette, 
"told the committee that Ms. Vilandry has sent him more than 12 emails regarding mulch 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
demanding that he remove it." The discussion then turned to complaints various Committee 
members had with the complainant.2 
On May 6, the complainant sent an e-mail to Committee Chair Wayne Oliveira 
requesting the minutes of the February 19 meeting.3 Also on May 6, the complainant requested a 
copy of the minutes from the Board of Selectmen's secretary. The Board of Selectmen's 
secretary sent a copy of the February 19 meeting minutes to the complainant on June 19. Chair 
Oliveira sent the complainant a copy of the minutes by e-mail on July 13. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law 
also requires that the "[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely 
manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, 
shall be made available upon request by any person within ten days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
Here, the complainant requested the February 19 meeting minutes on May 6. The Board 
of Selectmen's secretary provided the minutes to the complainant on June 19. The Committee 
provided the complainant with a copy on July 13. The Committee's response stated that the 
minutes were not provided to the complainant sooner because they were not approved until the 
Committee's June meeting.4 However, the law requires minutes of open sessions to be made 
available within 10 days whether or not the minutes have been approved. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) 
(emphasis added). By failing to make the draft minutes available within 10 days of the request, 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-99.5 
The complaint also alleges that the minutes of the February 19 meeting contain 
inaccuracies. Specifically, the complaint alleges that a statement referenced in the minutes as 
being made by one Committee member was made by another, and that Chair Oliveira made 
untrue statements during the meeting which are recorded in the minutes. When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is 
not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See 
OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Here, the recording of the February 19 meeting reveals that the 
2 Allegations concerning the propriety of this discussion were addressed in a previous determination, issued by our 
office on June 1. See OML 2015-74. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
4 The Committee's response states that no Committee meetings were held in March or April. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
statement attributed to Mr. Lavalette—that is, that the complainant had sent him twelve e-mails 
involving mulch—was made by Chair Oliveira, who, in turn, was relaying what Mr. Lavalette 
had told him. While the minutes do not accurately reflect who made the statement, they 
accurately identify the person who allegedly received the e-mails. We therefore find that the 
general scope of the conversation is accurately reflected in the minutes. The complaint further 
alleges that several additional statements made by Chair Oliveira, and captured in the minutes, 
are inaccurate. This office reviews meeting minutes to ensure that they accurately reflect the 
discussions that take place during meetings; our office does not review minutes to ensure that the 
statements made during meetings are factually true. See OML 2014-23. Here, the minutes of 
the Board's February 19 meeting accurately record the additional statements made by Chair 
Oliveira. We therefore find that the minutes are sufficiently accurate to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
As a final matter, we note that the Committee failed to respond to the complaint within 
the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of time has been requested, a public body 
must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the 
complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any 
remedial action taken. G.L. c. BOA, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). Here, the original 
complaint was filed with the Committee on July 14. The Committee did not request an 
extension, and responded by letter dated August 13. We remind the Committee of its obligations 
under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to make open session meeting minutes available within 10 days of a request. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Vilandry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
3 
===PAGE 4===
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.