===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 4, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 158 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Karis North, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Quincy, MA 02169  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney North: 
This office received a complaint from Paul Griesmer on June 1, 2020, alleging that the 
Natick Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 10, and the Board responded by 
letter dated April 29 following an extension of time from our office.1 In his complaint, Mr. 
Griesmer alleges that the Board 1) held improper executive sessions regarding a development 
agreement; 2) posted insufficiently detailed meeting notices for the same executive sessions; 3) 
met outside of a noticed meeting to approve the development agreement; and 4) the February 10, 
2020 meeting notice failed to list an anticipated topic.2, 3  
We appreciate the patience of the parties during our investigation. Following our review, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 1) improperly discussing portions of 
the development agreement during several executive sessions; 2) posting insufficiently detailed 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). We find Mr. Griesmer’ s allegations to be timely as the public only became aware of the 
development agreement on February 10, 2020, and the Board’s meeting notices did not specify the property the 
Board planned to discuss in executive session. The complaint was filed on March 10, 2020, 30 days after the alleged 
violation became reasonably discoverable.  
3 The complaint also alleges that 1) the Board lacked authorization to create the “redevelopment agency” which the 
Board proposed would lease office space in Stonegate’s development, and 2) the Board failed to include the 
development agreement in the meeting document packet for the Board’s February 20, 2020, meeting. Even if true, 
these allegations would not constitute violations of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. 
See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting notices for several executive sessions; and 3) failing to list anticipated topics in the 
notice for the Board’s February 10, 2020, meeting. We find no violation with respect to the other 
allegation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the complainant’s request for further review and additional documents 
sent to us by the complainant in October and November of 2020. We also reviewed in camera 
executive session minutes for meetings held on November 4, 2019, December 16, 2019, January 
21, 2020, February 3, 2020, and February 10, 2020 and the meeting notices for the same 
meetings.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board met in executive session on November 4, 2019, 
December 16, 2019, January 21, 2020, February 3, 2020, and February 10, 2020, to discuss a 
Chapter 40B Local Initiative Project (“LIP”) development agreement that would allow 
Stonegate, LLC (“Stonegate”) to proceed with developing the old St. Patrick’s School site.4 
Stonegate had purchased the property several years prior to these meetings. The development 
agreement required the Board to:  
1) Work with Stonegate on Stonegate’s Local Initiative Program Application to the 
Department of Housing and Community Development (“DHCD”), based on a 
concept plan included in the agreement; 
2) File Town Meeting warrant articles to seek Town Meeting approval for a site-
specific alcoholic beverage license and Town Meeting approval for a change to 
the Downtown Mixed Use zoning district, where the project is to be located. 
3) File the development agreement at the registry of deeds; and 
4) Provide public support for the project during all subsequent steps, including State 
legislative approval of the site-specific alcoholic beverage license. 
In exchange, the Town would receive from the Stonegate: 
1) A recorded perpetual affordable housing restriction for the benefit of the Town in 
excess of the minimum required by Chapter 40B; 
2) A lease of more than 500 sq. ft. of commercial office space in a 14,000 sq. ft. 
future building on the property for Town offices at no additional cost to the Town; 
and 
3) Limitations on the design, layout and types of buildings and units in the 
development of the property; including a requirement for public open space. 
The Board voted in executive session on February 10, 2020, to approve the agreement. The 
Board then announced the agreement in the open session which followed on February 10, 2020. 
 
4 The Board is the designated authority under Chapter 40B to negotiate and execute any LIP applications and 
agreements. See 760 CMR 56.02 (Definition of Chief Executive Officer is the “board of selectmen in a town, unless 
some other municipal office is designated to the chief executive officer under the provisions of a local charter.”). A 
LIP project is “a project for which the project eligibility application is submitted by the Chief Executive Officer of 
the municipality under 760 CMR 56.04(2), in accordance with the Department’s Local Initiative Program.” Since 
the application for a LIP project must be submitted by the Board, it is necessary that the Board and the proposed 
Developer negotiate a Development Agreement, prior to submitting the LIP application to the Department of 
Housing and Community Development for approval and eligibility. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
In addition to the development agreement with the Board, Stonegate must also receive approval 
from the Natick Planning Board, the Natick Zoning Board of Appeals and Town Meeting 
approval of the two warrant articles in order to proceed with the development plan.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing portions of the development 
agreement during several executive sessions without a proper purpose. 
 All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open ses sion, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session. See 
District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 
663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters 
other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was called).  
 One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). 
Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be 
purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its 
negotiations for the property. See District Attv. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 2016-50; OML 2019-10.5 We construe 
Purpose 6 narrowly to permit a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating 
position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the value of real 
estate, where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See Allen v. Board of 
Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2018-49. General 
discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating 
position to protect, do not fall within the executive session purpose. See OML 2016-93, OML 
2015-167.  
 Here, the development agreement covered many topics such as town meeting warrant 
articles, a liquor license, and zoning changes. We find that all of these topics were improper for 
executive session, with the possible exception of the discussion of the town’s lease of office 
space in the new development. See OML 2020-14 (public body’s discussion of Chapter 40B 
development was improper under Purpose 6); OML 2019-59 (public body’s discussion of 
conservation restriction was improper under Purpose 6). Here, the Board was not a party to a real 
estate transaction; the Board itself did not have a negotiating position relative to the purchase, 
exchange, lease, or value of the property, which Stonegate had acquired through a private 
transaction years earlier. Rather, the Board’s discussions during executive session concerned 
Stonegate’s use of the property and were akin to licensing and permitting discussions, which do 
not fall within the narrow scope of Purpose 6. See OML 2019-89. With regard to the lease for 
Town office space, the Board merely mentioned during the January 21 executive session that the 
agreement provided for leasing to the Town 500 square feet of commercial space at no cost. 
 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Although a lease can be a proper subject of discussion under Purpose 6, here, the Board did not 
engage in a discussion of negotiation strategy with respect to this item, but merely listed it as one 
among many elements of the development agreement. Therefore, we find that the Board’s 
November 4, 2019, December 16, 2019, January 21, 2020, February 3, 2020, and February 10, 
2020, discussions did not fall within a statutory purpose for executive session, and must be 
released in their entirety. The Board may not redact or withhold from the public any portion of 
the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld 
from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session 
was held in compliance with section 21”); OML 2019-12; OML 2014-42.  
2. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting insufficiently detailed meeting 
notices for several executive sessions.  
 As explained above, we find that the Board’s discussion of the development agreement 
with Stonegate during its November 4, 2019, December 16, 2019, January 21, 2020, February 3, 
2020, and February 10, 2020, meetings lacked a proper statutory purpose for meeting in 
executive session. However, even if the Board had sought to properly discuss the “purchase, 
exchange, lease or value” of the Stonegate property, the Board’s meeting notices would have 
been deficient for not specifying the property at issue. We explain the executive session meeting 
notice requirements in detail as the Board seems to be operating under a serious misapprehension 
of what the Law requires.   
 The Open Meeting Law requires th at all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only 
notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). A public body 
convening in executive session under Purpose 6 generally should identify, at a minimum, the 
specific real property to be discussed. See OML 2019-101; OML 2019-10; OML 2016-5; OML 
2014-136, OML 2014-36. Although we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether 
the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for the executive session, the public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 
2018-139. 
 Here, the Board did not identify on the notices for its November 4, 2019, December 16, 
2019, January 21, 2020, February 3, 2020, or February 10, 2020, meetings the specific property 
it intended to discuss during these executive sessions, nor did it otherwise describe the 
anticipated nature of the discussions. The Board argues that “providing the location of the 
property which was the subject of the negotiations could have compromised the Board’s 
negotiating position, because of the other entities which might have tried to get involved in the 
negotiation process.” Based on our investigation, we understand this to refer to members of the 
public or other public bodies within the Town that had previously opposed the Stonegate 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
development. The Open Meeting Law does not give a public body broad discretion to withhold 
the nature of executive session discussions or the identity of property to be discussed simply 
because a project is controversial. See OML 2020-68. The Board’s attempt to conceal the nature 
of a discussion that the Board knew to be of significant public interest and the subject of prior 
opposition demonstrates at minimum a deep misunderstanding of the proper application of 
Purpose 6, which is to protect a public body’s negotiating position vis-à-vis the other party(s) to 
a transaction, not to escape the inconvenience of public scrutiny. Contrast OML 2016-50 
(finding that a public body considering acquiring real property was justifiably concerned that 
identifying the real property to be discussed would generate interest in the property by other 
potential buyers and compromise the public body’s negotiating position). We find that the Board 
has failed to meet its burden of demonstrating how disclosing the nature of the discussion, or 
identifying the real property to be discussed, would have compromised a valid purpose for the 
executive sessions. See 2016-147; OML 2016-50. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to specify the property discussed during its executive sessions.  
3. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting to approve 
the development agreement.6 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
“deliberation” shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 
(emphasis added). For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the 
members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 Mr. Griesmer allege s that the Board met in an unposted meeting to approve the 
development agreement. The Board asserts that although “Stonegate executed the Agreement on 
February 5, 2020 and transmitted the Agreement to the Board by hand delivery on that date, … 
the Board did not vote on or execute the Agreement until its properly noticed meeting on 
February 10, 2020.” We have confirmed that the Board approved the agreement in executive 
session on February 10, 2020. In the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
public body’s version of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133. Therefore, we find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding improper deliberation outside of a meeting by the 
Board.  
4. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing anticipated topics at its 
February 10, 2020, meeting without including such topics on the meeting notice. 
 
6 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Mr. Griesmer also alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting in 
preparation for retaining special counsel to pursue the development agreement. However, as the retention of special 
counsel was disclosed during an open session on December 16, 2019, we find this allegation to be untimely and 
decline to review it.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 The Open Meeting Law require s that a public body post notice of each meeting 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Such notice must contain “the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. A public body may discuss topics not listed on the meeting notice, 
so long as the topics were not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours before the meeting. 
See OML 2011-13. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess 
what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those topics that he or she 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2020-31; OML 2013-61. 
 Here, the Board’s February 10, 2020, meeting notice listed fiv e warrant articles that the 
Board intended to support at Natick’s spring Town Meeting. The notice also contained the item 
“Other Potential Board Sponsored Articles.” At the February 10 meeting, the Board discussed 
the five listed warrant articles along with newly-public warrant articles regarding liquor licenses 
and zoning changes which would benefit Stonegate’s development. The language of these 
articles was included as Exhibit C of the development agreement between the Board and 
Stonegate. Stonegate executed the development agreement on February 5 and transmitted the 
agreement to the Board by hand delivery on that date. Therefore, when notice for the February 
10 meeting was posted at 5:30 p.m. on February 6, the Board’s chair should reasonably have 
anticipated that the Board would discuss the additional warrant articles related to the 
development agreement at the Board’s February 10 meeting. In addition, the Board failed to list 
the development agreement under “Board of Selectmen Updates,” where an announcement about 
the agreement and motions to approve the agreement and distribute a memorandum to “Chairs 
and various Committees, abutters and the press, to advise them of this Development Agreement” 
were also clearly anticipated. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing anticipated topics without including them on the meeting notice.   
5. We decline to find the Board’s violations to be intentional. 
 Finally, we must determine whethe r the violations were, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. However, a violation of the Open Meeting Law will not be considered an 
intentional violation “[w]here a public body has ... acted in good faith compliance with the 
advice of the public body’s legal counsel[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f); 940 CMR 29.02; OML 2015-
55.  
 The Board asserts that it re lied in good faith on the advice of legal counsel regarding the 
propriety of holding the development agreement discussion in executive session.  The 
complainant objects to the Board’s claim of good faith as the Board hired separate legal counsel 
to advise on the development agreement and therefore did not rely on the advice of Natick’s 
Town Counsel, who typically advises on Open Meeting Law issues. However, as the Law 
provides a safe harbor when a public body relies on the advice of “the public body’s legal 
counsel,” and the Board’s executive session minutes support the claim that the Board relied on 
the advice of counsel who was duly hired to advise the Board on matters pertaining to the 
development agreement, we decline to find an intentional violation here.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
1) discussing the development agreement during several executive sessions despite such matter 
not falling within any statutory purpose; 2) posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices for 
several executive sessions; and 3) discussing anticipated topics at its February 10, 2020, meeting 
without including such topics on the meeting notice. We do not find that the Board deliberated 
outside of a posted meeting.  
 We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Board 
to release the portions of the Board’s November 4, 2019, December 16, 2019, January 21, 2020, 
February 3, 2020, and February 10, 2020 executive session minutes which relate to the 
development agreement with 30 days of the Board’s receipt of this order.7  
 We now consider the complaint  addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Paul Greismer (via e-ma il:  ) 
 Natick Board of Selectmen (via e-mail:  ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 We decline to vacate the Board’s agreement with Stonegate, as the Complainant requests, because the project will 
undergo substantial vetting by other Natick governmental bodies as well as public input before development may 
proceed. Stonegate’s proposal will require separate approval from both the Natick Planning Board and the Natick 
Zoning Board of Appeals. The Planning Board and the Zoning Board of Appeals must hold public hearings as part 
of this process. In addition, during Natick’s recent Fall 2020 Town Meeting, residents overwhelmingly voted in 
support of the two warrant articles which are also necessary for the development to proceed. See 
https://www.metrowestdailynews.com/story/news/politics/county/2020/10/28/natick-town-meeting-moves-closer-to-
new-develpment-at-former-st-patricks-school/114518026/.  

===PAGE 8===
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 