===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 11, 2014 
OML 2014-97 
Wade M, Welch. Esq. 
Welch & Donohoe. LLP 
655 Summer St. 
Suite 203 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Welch; 
This office received a complaint from Patricia Clewley. dated May 15, alleging that the 
Winchester Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint alleges that the Board met in executive session for an improper purpose 
during four meetings (March 17, March 24, April 7, and April 15). Additionally, the complaint 
alleges that the Board failed to provide sufficient specificity in its meeting notices for, and verbal 
statements prior to entering into executive sessions during, those four meetings. The complaint 
was filed with the Board on or about April 15. The Board responded, through counsel, by letter 
dated May 5.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering 
into executive session for an improper purpose on the dates alleged. Additionally, the Board 
failed to provide sufficient detail in the notices for, and verbal statements during, the four 
meetings. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the April 15 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's May 5 response; and the May 15 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notices and executive session minutes for the four meetings at 
issue, as well as the minutes of the Board's April 22 open meeting. Finally, we reviewed letters 
from the Board's counsel dated June 4, June 12, and June 23. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014, 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 5, 2012, the Board voted to develop a plan to 
mitigate, moderate, or cap the impact of a change in the payment split for retired employees' 
healthcare premiums. Effective July 1, 2014, those retired employees would be required to pay 
50% of their premium amount. The result of the vote was announced at Town Meeting in the 
Fall of 2012. At the request of then State Representative Jason Lewis, the Town Manager and 
members of the Board subsequently held discussions with members of a municipal retiree group 
and their attorney. 
The Board held a meeting on March 17. The notice indicated that the Board would 
convene in executive session at 6:30 PM, and that the general meeting would begin at 7:30 PM. 
The notice read, in relevant part, as follows: 
Executive Session - 6:30p.m. 
(Compliance with State and Federal Law, Real Estate Negotiations) 
TOWN OF WINCHESTER BOARD OF SELECTMEN MEETING 
Monday, March 17, 2014 
7:30 PM 
Board of Selectmen Meeting Room 
The Board convened the March 17 meeting in open session at 6:30 PM, and voted to "adjourn to 
Executive Session for the purpose of discussing matters related to Compliance with state and 
federal Law, Chapter 32B and Real Estate Negotiations." According to the Board's response to 
the present complaint, the Board entered into executive session to attempt to determine the 
financial impact of the premium increase on individual retirees should the Town adopt a "means-
based plan." The Board invited Peter Haley, who represents a retiree group, to participate in the 
executive session. 
Because minutes of the March 17 executive session have not been publicly released, we 
do not discuss their content in detail here. However, it is clear from our review of the minutes 
that the Board discussed, at length, with the Town Manager the retiree health insurance rate 
options. The Board met in executive session from 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM, and then returned to 
open session. The Board reconvened in executive session at 8:59 PM and continued its 
discussion of the retiree health insurance options. 
During the intervening open session, the Board provided a health care update and 
explained that "a group of retirees and two members of the Board of Selectmen have been 
meeting to try to sort out differences." The Board continued its open session discussion with Jan 
Dolan, who spoke on behalf of the retirees, and two members of the Finance Committee. 
The Board met again in executive session during its March 24, April 7, and April 15 
meetings. According to the notice for the Board's March 24 meeting, the Board met in executive 
session in "compliance with State and Federal Law." During the meeting, the Board voted to 
2 
===PAGE 3===
enter into executive session "for the purpose of discussing matters related to Compliance with 
State and Federal Law, in this instance, MGL Chapter 32B." The notice for the Board's April 7 
meeting stated that the Board would meet in executive session for "Collective Bargaining, 
Litigation, Compliance with MGL Ch. 32B." During the meeting, the Board voted to enter into 
executive session "for the purpose of discussing matters related to Compliance with MGL 
Chapter 32B, Negotiations and Collective Bargaining." The notice for the Board's April 15 
meeting stated that the Board would meet in executive session for "Collective Bargaining, 
Personnel Matters, Compliance with MGL c. 32B; Real Estate Negotiations." During the 
meeting, the Board voted to enter into executive session to discuss "Personnel Matters; 
Collective Bargaining; Compliance with MGL C.32B; Real Estate Negotiations."3 In the 
executive sessions, the Board continued its discussion of retiree health insurance premiums and 
related legislation pending in the Massachusetts Legislature. 
During the Board's April 22 open meeting, the Board publicly discussed its progress 
regarding the retiree health insurance mitigation plan. Following a detailed discussion that 
included much of what had been considered in the executive sessions, the Board voted to adopt a 
mitigation plan. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law during its March 17, March 24, April 7. and 
April 15 Meetings bv Entering into Executive Session for an Improper Purpose. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to "comply 
with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body may invoke Purpose 7 
only where a general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirement requires that the public 
body act in a confidential manner. See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 
455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive 
session requires enumeration of enabling law); OML 2013-23.4 
During its March 17 meeting, the Board entered into executive session "for the purpose 
of discussing matters related to Compliance with state and federal Law, Chapter 32B." In his 
May 5 letter to our office, the Board's counsel identified G.L. c. 32B, § 20, and G.L. c. 15ID, § 
3, as the specific provisions that justified the Board's executive session on that date. The first 
provision, G.L. c. 32B, § 20, governs the establishment of a post-employment benefits liability 
trust fund. No part of this section requires a public body to hold its discussions in a confidential 
manner. See G.L. c. 32B, § 20. The second provision, G.L. c. 151D, § 3, governs the activities 
of retirement plan trustees and administrators. The Board was not acting in that capacity during 
3 The minutes of these three executive sessions remain confidential as of the date of this determination. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
its executive session discussions of the mitigation plan, thus any provisions requiring 
confidentiality did not apply to those discussions. See G.L. c. 15ID, § 3. 
The Board's Counsel argues that, in addition to these two statutes, it would have been 
permissible for the Board to enter into executive session under Purpose 7 because an open 
session discussion of these matters would have "defeated the Board's legitimate deliberative 
process privilege regarding the mitigation plan alternative, a privilege provided under GLC 4 § 
7(26)[(d)]."5 Exemption 26(d) to the Public Records Law allows a governmental entity or 
official to withhold from public disclosure documents "relating to policy positions being 
developed by the agency." G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(d). This permissive exemption allows public 
records custodians to withhold documents in response to a public records request, but does not 
mandate the type of confidentiality required to authorize an executive session under Purpose 7. 
OML 2012-104. A public body may not use this exemption to discuss a policy decision that, but 
for the existence of a document that could be protected, it could not discuss in executive session. 
Id. To allow such a reading of the law would permit public bodies to discuss any policy decision 
behind closed doors so long as they are developing written documents alongside their 
deliberation. Icl Such an exemption would swallow the rule that "all meetings of a public body 
shall be open to the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-104.b We therefore find that, even 
if the Board had cited this as the basis for its executive sessions, this purpose also would not 
have been proper. 
Finally, the Board argues that, "the legal and financial analysis material that was 
provided to the Board by the Town Manager on March 24th required executive session treatment 
because discussion of the material in open session would have published material as public and 
in doing so defeated the Board's legitimate attorney-client privilege recognized in Suffolk 
Construction Co. v. Division of Capital Asset Management, 449 Mass. 444 (2007)." Our office 
does not quarrel with the right of the Board to consult with counsel. See District Attorney for 
Plymouth District v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 633 (Mass. 1985); 
OML 2011 - 27. However, communication between counsel and a quorum of a public body may 
occur only during a properly posted open meeting or during an executive session held for one of 
the ten enumerated purposes. OML 2012-55; OML 2011-27; OML 2010-6. The attorney/client 
privilege itself is not an explicitly enumerated basis for executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a). Because the Board's discussion of the financial impact of a rate increase on individual 
5 Counsel's letter cited G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. (26)(c), which provides a Public Records exemption for certain personnel 
records. Counsel has not suggested that the Board discussed any personnel records during the meetings. Given the 
language preceding this citation, we believe that Counsel intended to cite G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. (26)(d), which provides 
a Public Records exemption for documents "relating to policy positions being developed by the agency," sometimes 
referred to as the "deliberative process" exemption, and we respond accordingly. 
6 In his June 23 letter to our office, the Board's Counsel further argues that "prior discussions were also considered 
confidential under the [Collective Bargaining Agreement], as the impact on future retirees was part of the 
deliberative process." While the Board identified collective bargaining as a reason for its April 7 and April 15 
executive sessions, it did not identify any specific union with which it was negotiating, nor did the chair state that 
holding an open session discussion would have a detrimental effect on the Board's negotiating position. See G.L. c. 
30A,§ 21(a)(3). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
retirees under a "means-based plan" did not fit within any of the existing executive session 
purposes the Board should have held its entire discussion in open session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21 (a). Its failure to do so violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Board entered into executive session during its March 24, April 7, and April 15 
meetings for similarly improper purposes. Thus, the Board also violated the Open Meeting Law 
during these meetings. 
2. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Identify the Specific Purpose 
for its Executive Sessions in the Notices for, and in Verbal Statements Prior to Entering, 
Executive Session on March 17. March 24, April 7, and April 15. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, and include a "listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2012-34. For executive session topics, the Board must identify the specific 
executive session purpose it intends to invoke to justify the executive session, and provide as 
much detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of the executive session discussion 
without compromising the confidentiality of the executive session. See OML 2011-9. Before 
entering the executive session, the chair must also state the purpose for the executive session in 
the same level of detail. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Here, the notice for the Board's March 17 meeting identified the executive session topic 
only as "Compliance with State and Federal Law, Real Estate Negotiation"1 Even if the Board 
had a valid reason to enter into executive session under Purpose 7, as the Board's Counsel has 
argued, it failed to properly notice the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). At a minimum, 
the Board should have stated in its notice the statutory purpose that formed the basis for the 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7); OML 2013-23; OML 2012-12. Doing so would have 
provided the public with more information about the Board's intended discussion without 
compromising the purpose for the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2013-
141. 
The notice for the Board's March 24 meeting was similarly deficient, failing to identify a 
legally permissible purpose for the executive session, and failing to provide sufficient detail 
about the nature of the executive session discussions. While the notices for April 7 and April 15 
7 While not the subject of the complaint, we note that, when entering executive session to discuss the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property, a public body must identify the property if doing so would not 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. OML 2013-97; OML 2012-52. A specific 
address is always preferable, but if unavailable, a public body may list bordering streets, intersections, landmarks or 
other identifying information. See id.; OML 2010-2. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
meetings cited G.L. c. 32B as the statutory basis for its executive sessions, the Board did not 
identify on which of the 29 sub-sections it was relying, or offer any other detail about the subject 
matter of its anticipated discussions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); Wayland. 455 Mass. at 567 
(2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the 
school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if 
the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). The Board's open session discussions of these 
issues suggest that providing more detail in the notices about the subject matter of the executive 
session discussions would not have compromised their confidentiality, thus we find the notice 
was insufficient. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session 
for an improper purpose on the four dates discussed above. Additionally, the Board failed to 
provide sufficient detail in the notices for the four meetings, and the Chair failed to include 
sufficient detail in statements made prior to entering into executive session during those 
meetings. We do not find this to be an intentional violation, rather the Board mistakenly 
believed that the discussion was appropriate under executive session Purpose 7. 
We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution the Board that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the members of the Board to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law training video on executive session, which may be found at the 
Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. Finally, we order that the Board 
release to the public the portions of the executive session minutes pertaining to the retiree health 
premium discussions held on March 17, 2014; March 24, 2014; April 7, 2014; and April 15, 
2014. Because these discussions were not appropriate for executive session, the Board may not 
withhold or redact any portions of the minutes related to these discussions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f) (The minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long 
as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the 
executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law.)-, OML 2014-17. We 
order that the Board certify in writing to the Division of Open Government, using the two 
attached forms, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter that it has complied with this order. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
6 
===PAGE 7===
cc; Winchester Board of Selectmen 
Patricia Clewley 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
7 
===PAGE 8===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I, , hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's 
(print name) 
determination number OML 2014-97 and, pursuant to the order therein, I have reviewed the 
training video on executive session, available at the Attorney General's website. 
Member, Winchester Board of Selectmen Date 
8 
===PAGE 9===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I, , hereby certify that pursuant to the Attorney General's 
order therein in determination number OML 2014-97, the Winchester Board of Selectmen has 
released to the public the portions of the executive session minutes related to retiree health 
premiums from its March 17, 2014; March 24, 2014; April 7, 2014; and April 15, 2014 meetings. 
Chair, Winchester Board of Selectmen Date 
9 