===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 24, 2012 
OML 2012- 31 
Jeff A. Chelgren 
Town Administrator 
Town Hall 
138 Main St. 
Wenham, MA 01984 
Dear Mr. Chelgren: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Ms. Michelle Bailey, dated 
August 8, 2011, alleging that the Wenham Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board "failed 
to post a detailed agenda 48-hours prior to their meeting held on June 10," and that the notice for 
the meeting "lacked a list of topics sufficiently specific to reasonably inform the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." Additionally, the complaint notes that "the room was set-
up so the Board was seated in the center of a very large room with chairs for the audience along 
the perimeter of the room. The distance from the board to the audience and the noisy air 
conditioning impeded the ability of the audience to hear the proceedings." The complaints were 
filed with the Board on July 5, 2011. The Board responded by letter on July 18, 2011. 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list on its meeting 
notice all topics that the Chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed during its June 10, 
2011 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the July 5, 2011 complaint; the July 
18, 2011 letter from the Board in response to the complaint; and the August 8, 2011 complaint. 
We reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board's June 7, 2011 and June 10, 2011 meetings. 
Finally, we spoke with Board Chair Molly Martins by telephone on December 7, 2011 regarding 
the complaint. 
FACTS 
The Wenham Board of Selectmen posted notice for its June 10, 2011 Board retreat on 
May 26, 2011. The notice listed one topic: "Discussion of Priorities for the next year." At the 
Board's June 7, 2011 meeting, the Board heard from the Town Hall & Police Station Building 
Committee regarding the War Memorial. The minutes of the meeting state that the "BOS will 
1 
===PAGE 2===
take this up at their retreat Friday... [Chair Molly] Martins stated she is comfortable that the BOS 
will take action and requested this be first on the agenda." The notice for the Board's June 10, 
2011 meeting was updated on June 9, 2011 with an additional topic: "Discussion [sic] the War 
Memorial Charge." 
At the Board's June 10, 2011 meeting, the Board distributed to the public a prepared 
agenda that included 11 topics. The Board noted in its response to the complaint that the June 
10th meeting "was an annual retreat intended as an opportunity for the Selectmen to identify 
their priority concerns, to set goals and objectives for the upcoming 12 months, and to identify 
how each issue/concern will be accomplished. Given the nature of this meeting, the agenda was 
developed with the understanding that the Selectmen were free to discuss a wide range of issues 
that impact the town. For this reason it is difficult to pre-determine what the topics might have 
been and how much detail was to be discussed." According to Chair Martins, she may have 
spoken with the Town Administrator' a few days before the meeting to review the types of items 
the Board would consider, although they did not set a definitive agenda and the retreat was 
intended to be an open session for any topics the Board members wished to raise. The meeting 
agenda was prepared by the Town's Administrator's office, which created the list of suggested 
topics for discussion based on the earlier conversation. With respect to the War Memorial topic, 
the Board's response stated that "[t]he 48 hour notice was inadvertently completed in error as the 
Town Administrator was unable, due to a busy schedule, to provide the posting agent with a 
timely agenda change." 
At the June 10th meeting, the room was arranged so that the Board members sat around a 
table in the center of the room, and chairs were placed in rows surrounding the center table 
toward the perimeter of the room. The complaint states that the "distance from the board to the 
audience and the noisy air conditioning impeded the ability of the audience to hear the 
proceedings." According to the Chair Martins, there were many seats available to the public 
closer to the Board members, and the Board did not impede the public's access to the Board's 
deliberations. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice in advance of every 
meeting. "Except in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. ... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). The Attorney General's regulations require further that the "list of topics shall have 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 
940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
The Board initially posted notice for its June 10, 2011 meeting on May 26, 2011, listing 
only one general topic: "Discussion of Priorities for the next year." At the Board's June 7, 2011 
meeting, the Board agreed to discuss the War Memorial at the June 10, 2011 meeting. The Chair 
therefore anticipated that the Board would discuss the War Memorial topic at the June 10, 2011 
1  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerejy, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-964-2045 
meeting, and should have updated the meeting notice at that time (which was still more than 48 
hours before the meeting). The meeting notice was updated before the meeting, but it was not 
done until June 9, 2011, fewer than 48 hours before the June 10, 2011 meeting. 
It is also evident from the pre-prepared agenda that was distributed at the start of the June 
10, 2011 meeting that the Chair reasonably anticipated some of the eleven other topics that the 
Board might discuss during its meeting, having reviewed these topics with the Town 
Administrator prior to the Town Administrator preparing the agenda. These were not all 
unanticipated topics that arose during general discussion. The Board should therefore have listed 
the anticipated topics in the meeting notice at least 48 hours before the meeting. We recognize 
that a Board retreat is different than a regularly scheduled meeting where the Board follows a 
fixed agenda. The retreat is an opportunity for a free-flowing discussion, and for Board 
members to raise ideas and goals. However, where the chair reasonably anticipates certain topics 
may be discussed during the retreat, the chair must include those topics in the meeting notice. 
Listing the reasonably anticipated topics in the notice provides members of the public with 
necessary information so that they may decide whether to attend the meeting. 
Finally, the complaint states that at the June 10, 2011 meeting, "the room was set-up so 
the Board was seated in the center of a very large room with chairs for the audience along the 
perimeter of the room. The distance from the board to the audience and the noisy air 
conditioning impeded the ability of the audience to hear the proceedings." A meeting of a public 
body must be open and accessible so that members of the public may observe and hear the 
deliberations of a public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). After speaking with Chair Martins, we 
credit her assertion that there were sufficient seats available to members of the public in close 
proximity to the Board members, and the public's access to the Board's deliberations was not 
impeded. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect 
to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list on its meeting 
notice all the topics that the chair anticipated the Board would discuss during its June 10, 2011 
meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and note that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Michelle Bailey
cc: Molly Martins, Chair, Wenham Board of Selectmen