===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 25, 2012 
OML 2012 - 52 
Sanda Barry 
Hubbardston Parks Commission 
7 Main Street, Unit 3 
Hubbardston, MA 01452 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Barry: 
Our office received complaints from Danielle Arakelian, dated June 26, 
2011; Jassy Bratko, dated June 23, 2011; and Thomas Bratko, dated June 24, 
2011, alleging that the Hubbardston Parks Commission (the "Commission") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaints allege that the Conmlission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to list agenda topics with sufficient specificity in its March 14, 2011; March 28, 
2011; April 11, 2011; April 25, 2011; May 9, 2011; and May 16, 2011 meeting 
notices. The complaints further allege that the Commission unlawfully entered 
executive session during its May 16, 2011 meeting. The complaints were 
originally submitted to the Commission on June 2, 2011 and June 6, 2011. We 
received the Commission's response to the complaints on June 22, 2011. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "the complainant shall file a written 
complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute 
the alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged 
violation; provided, however, that such complaint shall be filed within 30 days of 
the alleged violation." G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Here, with regard to alleged 
violations on March 14, 2011; March 28, 2011; April 11, 2011; and April 25, 
2011, the complaints were filed more than 30 days after the alleged violations. 
Because the alleged violations occurred during open session meetings, we fmd 
that the complainant could reasonably have known about the Commission's 
actions on those meeting dates, thus the complaints regarding the March 14, 
March 28, April 11, and April 25 meetings are untimely. We decline to review 
those complaints. The remaining complaints are addressed below. 
1 
CP 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Throughout the spring of 2011, the Commission explored the possibility 
of purchasing land pursuant to the Community Preservation Act' to construct new 
sports courts at the Curtis Recreation Field ("Rec Field"). The Commissioners 
discussed a four-acre plot of land located at 48 High Street, adjacent to the Rec 
Field, which had become available for purchase. The Commissioners discussed 
the purchase price in open session, and discussed the positive and negative 
aspects of purchasing that property. 
The Commission held an open meeting on May 9, 2011. The meeting 
notice included a topic listed as "CPA proposal," referring to the Community 
Preservation Act. The land proposal being considered by the Commissioners 
included purchasing land with funding through the Community Preservation Act. 
Three Commissioners and an unidentified number of "High Street residents" were 
present at the meeting. No substantive discussion regarding the project took 
place, however, because Commissioner Christopher Norcross, who possessed 
necessary documents, was in another meeting. 
The next Commission meeting occurred on May 16, 2011. The meeting 
notice included a topic listed as "Executive Session: Purpose #6: to consider the 
purchase of real property." Prior to that evening's executive session, it was 
established that the purchase price of the land to expand the Rec Field was 
$60,000. The minutes do not reflect when or how negotiations resulted in the 
$60,000 figure, but both the Arakelian complaint and the minutes from that 
evening's executive session confirm that agreement had been reached on a 
purchase price of $60,000 in open session, prior to the executive session. 2  During 
the public portion of this meeting, the Commissioners opened the floor for 
comments prior to voting to enter executive session. The minutes reflect that 
High Street residents in attendance questioned the necessity and the legality of the 
executive session. Commissioner Norcross responded that "[a] decision to move 
forward to purchase the land needs to be made tonight." The minutes show that at 
least one commissioner expressed some irritation, stating that "community 
members [were] continually interrupting discussion and these interruptions are 
delaying and extending meetings beyond what is reasonable." The commissioner 
added that the Commission "has heard the input of the High Street residents 
multiple times and feels that all opinions have been heard and consideration will 
be made." Another commissioner stated that the executive session was in 
compliance with Open Meeting Law. 
1  The Community Preservation Act allows communities to create a local Community Preservation 
Fund to raise money through a surcharge of up to 3% of the real estate tax levy on real property 
for open space protection, historic preservation and the provision of affordable housing. The act 
also creates a significant state matching fund, which serves as an incentive to communities to pass 
the CPA. 
2  Because the executive session minutes for the May 16, 2011 meeting have not yet been publicly 
released, to the best of our knowledge, we do not recount their full detail here. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
During the executive session, the Commissioners discussed the purchase 
of the land on High Street, but at no time during the executive session did they 
engage in discussion that could be characterized as affecting their negotiating 
position. The minutes of the executive session confirm that the purchase price of 
$60,000 had already been decided before the executive session. The Commission 
discussed whether to go ahead with the purchase and the project, and discussed 
the potential use of the land. 
In the executive session, the Commission voted "to move forward with the 
application to CPC3  for funds to purchase a lot of land to develop for the 
expansion and enhancement of the Curtis Recreational Fields." 
DISCUSSION 
I. 
	
	 The Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to List 
Topics with Sufficient Specificity in its Meeting Notices.  
Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. When planning to discuss a specific piece of 
property, public bodies should include sufficient information in the meeting 
notice to identify the property. A specific address is always preferable; however, 
if the Commission is unable to list a specific address, then it may list bordering 
streets, intersections, landmarks or other identifying information. See OML 
2010-2.4  
Here, the Commission could have reasonably anticipated that at the May 
9, 2011 and May 16, 2011 meetings it would discuss the proposed purchase of 
land either specifically at 48 High Street, or land located on High Street and 
adjacent to the Rec Field. The Commission had discussed this specific property 
throughout the spring of 2011. Despite that, the Commission's May 9, 2011 and 
May 16, 2011 meeting notices did not provide sufficient information. Both 
notices simply referred to the general type of project, rather than identifying the 
specific property to be discussed, either by address or by identifying landmarks. 
The Commission, therefore, failed to fully comply with the Open Meeting Law 
regarding posting its notices.5  
3  CPC refers to the Community Preservation Committee. 
4  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
5  The Town Clerk sent the Commission co-chairs an email on March 20, 2011 informing them of 
the Open Meeting Law's notice requirements. It is not clear whether the co-chairs received or 
reviewed this email. Therefore, we do not fmd this to be an intentional violation of the Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law by Entering Executive 
Session for an Improper Purpose.  
Public bodies may enter a closed, or executive, session only for one or 
more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. 
One purpose is "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real 
property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the negotiating position of the public body." Id. at § 21(a)(6). Prior to 
entering executive session, "the chair shall state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." Icl. at § 21(b)(3). 
Here, the Commission listed in the notice for its May 16, 2011 meeting 
"Executive Session: Purpose #6: to consider the purchase of real property." 
According to the minutes, the Commission first opened the floor for comments 
prior to voting to enter executive session. High Street residents in attendance 
questioned the necessity and the legality of the Executive Session. The 
Commissioners responded with three reasons for entering executive session: (1) 
because a decision needed to be made that night regarding the CPA application to 
purchase the land; (2) because community members were too often interrupting 
open meeting discussions, delaying meetings beyond what was reasonable; and 
• (3) because "the law clearly allows for an executive session in the instance of a 
purchase of real estate." None of the Commissioners' stated reasons accorded 
with Open Meeting Law, however. 
The Commissioners did not specify that entering executive session would 
have a detrimental effect on their negotiating position with regard to the purchase 
of property. Here, the Commissioners could not make such a claim because no 
negotiation remained to be done at the time of this meeting. The complaints and 
the minutes from the executive session make clear that the purchase price-
$60,000—had already been decided before the Commissioners entered executive 
session. The Commission did not discuss any other matters with respect to 
negotiating the purchase of land, rather they discussed the pros and cons of going 
ahead with the project. They discussed the potential use of the land, and 
ultimately voted to go forward with the project. This discussion and vote should 
have been conducted in an open meeting. 
In its response to the complaints, the Commission stated that it needed to 
enter executive session because the Commissioners felt that open discussion 
would have detrimentally affected the "negotiations of the public body as the 
body was as a whole not of one mind on the purchase." When the terms of a land 
purchase have been negotiated and the only remaining discussion relates to 
whether or not to enter into the deal, Purpose 6 may no longer be used to justify 
an executive session. The negotiation has concluded at that point. The 
Commission should therefore have held this discussion in an open session 
meeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
list topics with sufficient specificity in its meeting notices, and by improperly 
discussing matters behind closed doors that were not appropriate for executive 
session. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the minutes of the May 16, 2011 executive session reflect that the 
actual purpose for entering executive session was to avoid open discussion of 
matters required to be conducted in an open meeting, we order the Commission to 
publicly release the May 16, 2011 executive session minutes, if it has not done so 
already. The Commission may redact or withhold portions of the minutes if one 
or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4 § 7, or the 
attorney/client privilege applies. See G. L. c. 30A, § 22(f). We decline to take 
the action requested by complainant Mr. Bratko, namely nullifying the revised 
CPA application. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding 
this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: (617) 963-2045 
cc: Danielle Arakelian 
Jassy Bratko 
Thomas Bratko 
5 