===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 90 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
Howard L. Greenspan, Attorney at Law 
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bruce Friedman on behalf of 
OpenCommonwealth.org on February 20, 2025,
1 alleging that the Malden School Committee 
(the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on January 21, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee by letter dated February 5. The complaint alleges that the Committee posted an 
insufficient notice for its January 13 meeting where the notice did not identify the bargaining 
unit to be discussed in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  
 
Following review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a).
2 The Committee acknowledges, and we find, that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to identify on the notice for its January 13 meeting the specific 
bargaining units that would be discussed in executive session where divulging such information 
would not have compromised the purpose for convening in executive session. When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the collective bargaining 
unit with which it is negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for 
secrecy. See OML 2018-139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87; see also, District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject’ s obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”).3  
 
The Committee represents that the bargaining units were not identified on the meeting 
notice due to a clerical error, and the Committee’s response to the complaint demonstrates its 
understanding that it is obligated to include such information if doing so would not compromise 
the purpose for convening in executive session. Additionally, as requested in the complaint, the 
Committee amended the notice for its January 13 meeting, which is available online, to include 
the specific bargaining units discussed in executive session.  
 
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.
4 We decline to order release of executive session minutes, as the complaint requests, where 
there is no suggestion that the Committee convened in executive session for an improper 
purpose. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee  
(via email:  mayor@cityofmalden.org) 
Malden School Committee c/o Ariana Langston, Clerk of the Committee 
(via email: alangston@maldenps.org) 
Carol Ann Desiderio, City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
Bruce Friedman, OpenCommonwealth.org (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 In the request to our office for further review of the complaint, the Complainant urges that the violation “should be 
deemed intentional based on the identical nature of violations both admitted and found by the division upon this 
public body from 2023-2025.” The Complainant does not point to a specific determination in which we found a 
similar violation as the one found here, and a search of our past determinations did not reveal such a determination. 
The Complainant offers no other evidence countering the Committee’s assertion that the failure to identify the 
specific bargaining units to be discussed was due to a clerical error. As such, we decline to find the violation 
intentional. See 940 CMR 29.02 (defining “Intentional Violation”). 
