===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       June 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 81 
 
 
Mark Haddad 
Town Manager 
Town of Groton 
173 Main Street 
Groton, MA 01450 
 
By email only: mhaddad@grotonma.gov  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Haddad:  
 
This office received a complaint from Paul Fitzgerald on November 29, 2024, alleging 
that the Groton Working Group on Studying PILOTS (the “Group”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Group on October 30, 
2024, and you1 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Group, by letter dated November 1, 
2024.  The complaint alleges that the Group failed to post notice of meetings and did not allow 
members of the public to attend meetings. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Group is not a public body, and therefore not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law and did not violate the Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Group’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed minutes of Select Board (the 
“Board”) meetings held between April 3, 2024, and January 27, 2025.  Finally, we spoke with 
Attorney Brian Falk by telephone on May 29, 2025. 
 
 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Pursuant to the Groton Town Charter, the Town Manager is 
the c
hief administrator of the town and is responsible to the Board for the proper administration 
of town affairs.  Specifically, the Town Manager is responsible for the efficient and coordinated 
administration of all town functions under his control; manages and coordinates the 
administrative activities of all town agencies; prepares and submits annual operating budgets and 
capital improvement projects; and performs such other duties as necessary or as may be assigned 
by the charter, by-law, town meeting vote or the Board.  See Groton Town Charter, Article 4, 
Section 4.2. 
 
Duri
ng a Board meeting held on June 24, 2024, the Board reviewed and discussed five 
Annual Goals for the Board that had been prepared by Town Manager Mark Haddad.  One of the 
goals was to work with various non-profits to codify PILOT (Payments In-Lieu of Taxes) 
Agreements.
2  Two members of the Board, Alison Manugian and Matthew Pisani, were assigned 
to this goal.  Ultimately, the Board unanimously voted “to adopt the Groton Select Board’s 
Annual Goals for Fiscal Year 2025.” 
 
Thereafter, Mr. Haddad created the Group to advise and assist him in gathering data 
about property values and identifying tax-exempt properties and the non-profit entities who 
owned such properties that the Town might approach to enter PILOT agreements.  Mr. Haddad 
appointed a member of the Finance Committee, the Town Accountant, the Town Treasurer, the 
Principal Assessor and his Executive Assistant to the Group.  The two Board members that had 
been assigned to the PILOT annual goal during the June 24, 2024, meeting were also part of the 
Group.  According to Town Counsel, each member of the Group worked independently to 
research a particular issue and gather data; members would then convene to share the results of 
their research.  Between August and December 2024, the Group met three or four times.  The 
Group has since disbanded. 
 
 During Board meetings held on August 12, September 9, October 21, 2024, and 
November 4, 2024, Mr. Haddad provided updates to the Board about the progress of the Group.  
The Board did not vote or take action on any matter presented.  However, the Board at times 
provided guidance on identifying properties that might be subject to PILOT agreements and 
suggesting looking at community benefits and impacts on municipal services.   
 
In early January 2025, Mr. Haddad publicly issued a nine-page report.  The report was 
written exclusively by him and incorporated the research and data gathered by the Group.  The 
report explained how the tax rate was set in town, a brief historical review of PILOTS, the 
voluntary payments already received by the town, and criteria for establishing future PILOT 
agreements.  During a January 27, 2025, Board meeting, Mr. Haddad provided the Board with a 
copy of the final report for their review and explained that he, with the assistance of the Group, 
developed a criterion to request voluntary payments from 28 Non-Profit Partners.  The Board 
 
2 Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILOT) Agreement is a financial arrangement between a property owner, often a 
nonprofit organization, and a government entity, where the property owner agrees to make payments to the 
government instead of paying standard property taxes.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
thanked Mr. Haddad and the Group for their hard work but took no action on the 
recommendations in the report.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and individuals acting as public body 
memb
ers.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  A “public body” subject to the Open Meeting Law is any 
“multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. 
School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  Under the Connelly exception, where an 
individual public official, who themself is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a 
committee to advise them on a decision that they have the sole authority to make, that committee 
is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 235.  See also, e.g., OML 2019-71 (working 
group fit within Connelly exception where it only possessed authority to make recommendations 
to the Mayor); OML 2012-65 (University of Massachusetts Amherst Student Health Insurance 
Plan Committee was not a public body as it was created by UMass Vice-Chancellor for Student 
Affairs to advise her on a decision she had the sole authority to make).
3 
 
The complaint alleges tha
 t the Group is subject to the Open Meeting Law and violated 
the Law by failing to post notices of meetings and not allowing access to its meetings.  The 
Group contends that it was created at the discretion of Town Manager Haddad and it therefore 
falls within the Connelly exception.  We find that the Connelly exception applies to the Group.  
Here, Mr. Haddad assembled the Group on his own, was not directed to do so by the Board, and 
the Board never voted to create the Group.  See OML 2019-149; OML 2018-62.  Although 
members of the Board and Finance Committee were part of the Group, a body may still fall 
within the Connelly exception even where a body’s membership includes members of public 
bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-78; OML 2020-118.   
 
In addition, the Group’s purpose was to assist Mr. Haddad in reviewing and identifying 
tax-exem
pt properties which might generate PILOT agreements.  All research and data gathered 
by members of the Group was provided to Mr. Haddad who then compiled that research and data 
into a nine-page report.  Mr. Haddad alone created the nine-page report, which he then presented 
to and discussed with the Board during a January 27, 2025, meeting.  Based on our review of the 
available evidence, including the fact that the Group’s purpose was to assist Mr. Haddad in his 
review of tax-exempt properties and non-profit entities, and that Mr. Haddad had the sole 
authority to recommend policies on PILOTS and propose PILOT agreements, we find that Mr. 
Haddad created the Group to advise him on a decision he had the authority to make.  See OML 
2021-78; OML 2018-62.  Therefore, the Group falls within the Connelly exception and is not a 
public body. 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Group.  Please feel free to 
contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paul Fitzgerald – By email only:  
 Brian Falk, Esq. – By email only: bfalk@miricklaw.com  
 Groton Town Clerk – By email only: townclerk@grotonma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
