===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAIJRA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 13, 2016 
OML 2016-172 
Brandon Moss, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Moss: 
This office received a complaint on August 25 from Attorney Sander Rikleen, on 
behalf of the First Parish Church in Bedford, alleging that the Bedford Historic District 
Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about June 21, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated August 8.2 In its complaint, the First 
Parish Church alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding 
its application for a Certificate of Appropriateness. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
Additionally, we reviewed email communications provided to our office by the Commission, 
as well as the minutes from the Commission meetings held on April 6; May 4; and June 1. 
Finally, we interviewed Commissioners Karen Khalil-Brown and Chris Weisz by telephone 
on October 4 and October 20, respectively.3 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-member public body, thus 
three members constitute a quorum.4 First Parish Church (the "Church") is located in 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We granted the Commission an extension of time to respond until August 8. 
3 These two Commissioners did not participate during the Commission's meeting in which this complaint was 
discussed with its counsel. 
4 In addition, the Commission consists of two alternate, non-voting members. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Bedford, Massachusetts. The Church submitted an application to the Commission for a 
Certificate of Appropriateness that would allow the Church to install solar panels on limited 
portions of its roof. The Commission held several hearings on the application before 
ultimately declining to issue the Certificate during its June 1 meeting. During each meeting, 
Commissioners used their own personal laptops to view the Church's presentation. The 
Commissioners did not send text messages to each other during the meeting. 
Following the first hearing on April 6, Chair Willian Moonan contacted historic 
districts in other municipalities for guidance on the issue of installing solar panels on a 
historic building such as the Church. Several municipalities responded to Chair Moonan by 
email, which he then forwarded to the rest of the Commission without any comment. At the 
next hearing on May 4, Chair Moonan read those emails aloud. The Commission then took 
two straw poll votes to gauge the Commission's willingness to either approve the application 
as presented or subject to certain amendments. Chair Moonan stated that, based on the results 
of the votes (2-3 vote and 3-2 vote), the Commission appeared divided, and thus suggested 
that the hearing be continued once more in order to give the Commissioners an opportunity to 
view a sample installation. 
A representative from the Church emailed Town employee Scott Gould several times 
between meetings with supporting information for the Commissioners, which Mr, Gould 
forwarded to the Commissioners. On May 13, this same Church representative asked Mr. 
Gould to notify the Commissioners that the Church would display sample materials and a 
large photo of the building with the panels at the Church the following day, on May 14.5 On 
May 14, Commissioners Karen Khalil-Brown and Lorrie Dunham were present together, by 
chance, at the Church to view the sample panels. On May 23, the representative emailed Mr. 
Gould with several images for the Commissioners' consideration, including a "photo-
shopped" image of the Church. The Commissioners did not respond to those emails or 
otherwise discuss the application outside of a meeting. 
Based on the straw poll votes taken during the May 4 hearing, Chair Moonan believed 
that the Commission would likely deny the application and thus, on his own initiative, 
prepared a draft list of reasons for denial, which he knew was a requirement under Chapter 
118 of the Acts of 1964. This list reflected the concerns that the Commissioners expressed 
during the first two hearings. Chair Moonan distributed this draft list to the Commissioners 
during the June 1 hearing. The other Commissioners did not become aware of the list until 
that meeting. Following further discussion, the Commission denied the application and 
attached the list of reasons to the motion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridgc. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
5 Chair Moonan also sent an email to the Commission the day before, on May 12, with this same information. 
We caution public bodies to limit communicating by email on matters within the public body's jurisdiction. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the member of the 
public body. Id 
A public body may not engage in a serial deliberation, whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within the 
public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008). 
Furthermore, a public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate 
communication on matters that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an open 
meeting. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 
451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements 
of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private messages, whether 
electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form."). 
The complaint alleges that, based on the "tenor and contents of the discussion" at the 
June 1 meeting, the Commission must have deliberated privately about the Church's 
application in advance of the meeting. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the 
Commission texted each other during the meeting. We find no evidence that the Commission 
deliberated privately, either during or outside of a meeting, about the Church's application. 
First, the Commission denies that it sent text messages to each other during the hearings. 
Rather, some Commissioners used their personal laptops to view a copy of the Church's 
presentation. Absent evidence to the contrary, we find no violation in this regard. Second, 
Chair Moonan's emails to the Commission which forwarded emails from other Historic 
Districts fell within the narrow exception to "deliberation" as they were documents distributed 
for the purpose of discussion at a future meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Chair Moonan's 
emails did not otherwise include his opinion, which is the proper procedure under the law. 
See OML 2015-33; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; see also OML 2016-104 (expression of an 
opinion on matters within a public body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds).6 Third, Town employee Scott 
Gould, who is not a member of the Commission, forwarded emails from the Church to the 
Commissioners. The Commissioners did not otherwise respond to those emails. This 
comports with the law's requirements. See OML 2014-80 (a non-member may send one-way 
communications to a public body, but may not facilitate communications between them). 
Finally, although two Commissioners happened to be present at the Church at the same time, 
this chance encounter was between a subquorum of the Commission and therefore, even if 
they had discussed Commission business, it would not constitute deliberation. See OML 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2014-93. Accordingly, we find that the Commission did not deliberate outside of a meeting 
and thus, it did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Sander Rikleen, Esq. 
Bedford Historic District Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 