===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 26, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 143 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jeffrey T. Blake, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
jblake@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Blake: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on June 7, 2024, alleging that the 
Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around April 8, and former Town 
Counsel Edmund St. John responded on behalf of the Board on April 18.  The complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to timely approve minutes for several meetings held in early 2024. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
Complainant’s request for further review filed with our office.  In addition, we reviewed minutes 
of the Board’s several meetings held in March and April.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Minutes of all open sessions must be 
created and approved in a “timely manner.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11 (2).   
 
The Board held meetings on the following dates: January 3 and 17; February 7 and 21; 
March 6, 11, and 20; and April 2, 3, and 4.  The complaint alleges that, as of April 8 when the 
complaint was filed, the Board had only created and approved minutes for the January and 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
February meetings.  Notwithstanding this allegation, minutes of the Board’s April 3 meeting 
document that the Board approved minutes of its March 6 meeting in open session on April 3.  
As the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes be approved within the later of the next 
three meetings or 30 days, we find that the Board timely approved minutes of its March 6 
meeting when it approved the minutes on April 3.  Moreover, at the time the complaint was filed, 
30 days had not yet passed since the remaining meetings identified in the complaint; therefore, 
the Board could not have violated the Law with regard to the timeliness of its approval of those 
meeting minutes. 
 
Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the 
complaint, we note our concern that in its response the Board asserted that three meetings in 
April “were workshop dates and there was no need to approve minutes.”  We remind the Board 
that it is obligated to create and timely approve minutes for all meetings, and that workshop 
meetings count toward the three meetings or 30-day period for purposes of timely approval of 
minutes.  The Open Meeting Law and regulations do not distinguish between “regular” meetings 
and other types of meetings such as workshops, public hearings, or special meetings for purposes 
of timely approval of minutes.  See OML 2017-103 (public body should have created complete 
minutes for its “workshop” meetings because topics discussed were matters within the public 
body's jurisdiction); OML 2019-115 (no exception for “single topic” meetings or meetings not 
“normally scheduled”); OML 2023-132.2 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Catherine Foster (via email:
 ) 
 John Duval
, Chair, Adams Board of Selectmen (via email: jduval@town.adams.ma.us) 
Jay Green, Adams Town Administrator (via email: jgreen@town.adams.ma.us) 
 Adams Town Clerk (via email: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 