===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 86 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexandra H. Kalkounis 
City Solicitor 
Law Department 
455 Main Street, Room 301 
Worcester, MA 01608 
law@worcesterma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Kalkounis: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Contois on June 2, 2026, alleging that the 
Worcester School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 13
1 and alleges that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law on March 5 by: (1) convening an executive 
session without first meeting in open session; and (2) convening an executive session for an 
improper purpose.  You responded to the complaint by letter on May 4.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a notice of a meeting held on March 5 which suggested that there would be no open 
session preceding the scheduled executive session.  We find the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the recording,3 
notice, and minutes4 of the Committee’s March 5 meeting. 
 
1 All dates are in 2026, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Committee is reminded that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the 
public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney 
General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5).  
3 The recording of the Committee’s March 5 meeting may be found at the following link: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZDVusd1UNCQ& 
4 Notices and minutes of Committee meetings can be found at the following link: 
https://www.worcesterschools.org/o/wps/page/agenda-and-minutes. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee held a meeting on March 5.  The notice of 
this meeting stated that the Committee would convene an executive session at 5:00 p.m. prior to 
convening an open session at 5:30 p.m.  The “Order of Business” section of the notice showed 
the “Call to Order” for open session occurring after the executive session, with no open session 
preceding the executive session.  The notice listed several executive session topics, including 
three Open Meeting Law complaints for discussion under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). 
 
On March 5, the Committee met in open session prior to convening in executive session.5  
The minutes of the March 5 meeting do not record the chair convening in open session to 
announce the purposes for the executive session.  Nor do the minutes record that the Committee 
performed in open session any of the executive session convening procedures, including the roll 
call vote to enter executive session and the announcement of whether the open session would 
reconvene following the executive session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the meeting held on March 5 did not comply with the Open Meeting 
Law where it suggested that there would be no open session preceding the 
scheduled executive session. 
 
First, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening in executive session prior to calling the open session meeting to order.  For the 
reasons set forth in OML 2026-85, we find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a notice that gave the impression that there would be no open session prior to the 
executive session during which the public could witness the procedure to enter executive session.  
See also OML 2026-56.  We caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Law. 
 
II. The Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening an executive 
session under Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law Complaints.  
 
Next, the complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss Open Meeting Law complaints.  One 
lawful purpose for convening in executive session is “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  The complainant alleges that 
because the Open Meeting Law complaints that were discussed in executive session concerned 
the procedural compliance of the public body itself, not the reputation, character, discipline or 
dismissal of any individual, Purpose 1 was improper and the Committee should have discussed 
the complaints in open session.  
 
5 In its response, the Committee maintains that it first met in open session. Absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Our office has unequivocally stated that public bodies may meet in executive session 
under Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law complaints filed with the body. See OML 2024-
204; OML 2019-170; OML 2019-163; OML 2019- 34; OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; OML 
2011-6.  We have reasoned that an Open Meeting Law complaint is by its nature a complaint 
“brought against[] a public officer,” namely, the members of the public body. See OML 2021-
21; OML 2012-119.  Accordingly, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it discussed three Open Meeting Law complaints in executive session during its 
March 5 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting notice of a meeting that implied that the Committee would go directly into executive 
session without first convening in open session.  We order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Law and caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Andrew Guay, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Robert Contois  
 Worcester School Committee Clerk (via email: turgeonk@worcesterschools.net) 
Worcester City Clerk (via email: clerk@worcesterma.gov) 
Mayor of Worcester (mayor@worcesterma.gov)  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
