===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 18, 2018
OML 2015-14; OML 2018-139
James B. Lampke, Esq.
Hull Town Counsel 
115 North Street 
Hingham, MA 02043
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Lampke:
This office received a complaint filed by Susan Ovans of The Hull Times, dated August 
25, 2014, alleging that the Hull Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that, during a July 15, 2014 
meeting, the Board entered into executive session but failed to first publicly state all subjects that 
could be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board improperly invoked the attomey/client 
privilege as a purpose for that executive session. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on July 21, 2014. The Board responded by letter dated August 15, 2014, following an 
extension of time granted by our office.
Following our initial investigation of the complaint, our office issued a determination on 
January 29, 2015 that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to publicly identify 
the collective bargaining unit with which it was negotiating and failing to publicly identify one 
of the parties with whom it was involved in litigation before entering into executive session to 
discuss those matters on July 15, 2014. The Board appealed that decision to Superior Court, in 
accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). Following its review of the matter, the Superior Court 
remanded the complaint to our office for further consideration and review of any additional facts 
that the Board chose to submit to demonstrate that its decision not to identify the parties that 
were the subject of its executive session discussion was reasonable. Bd. of Selectmen of Hull v, 
Healey, 2017 WL 6601467 (Plymouth Superior Court, Ricciuti, J.).
o

===PAGE 2===
Following our additional investigation of the complaint and in accordance with the 
Superior Court’s guidance, we now determine that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to publicly identify the collective bargaining unit with which it was negotiating and 
failing to publicly identify one of the parties with whom it was involved in litigation before 
entering into executive session on July 15, 2014. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s response, and the complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and open and executive session minutes of, the Board’s 
July 15, 2014 meeting. We reviewed emails you sent to our office regarding this matter, dated 
October 31, 2014; November 20, 2014; December 11, 2014 (2); and December 16, 2014.
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on October 7, 2014 and January 15, 2015, in person on 
December 4, 2014, and by telephone on multiple occasions in March and April of 2018.
Although we invited the Board to submit additional facts for our review, no new factual 
information was submitted.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Notice for the Board’s July 15, 2014 meeting, posted on 
July 10, 2014, listed eight topics for discussion, but no executive session. On the morning of the 
meeting, the Chair became aware of an update in a potential litigation matter. Additionally, 
immediately prior to the meeting, the Town Manager informed the chair of his desire to provide 
the Board with an update concerning a collective bargaining matter. During the meeting, 
therefore, the Board voted to enter into executive session, according to the minutes, to:
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, and that I as Chair declare that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining positions of the body, and 
move into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation and that I, as 
Chair, declare than an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating 
position of the body, to comply with, or act under the authority of the Attorney-Client 
privilege and move to go into Executive Session to consult with legal counsel or obtain 
legal advice pursuant to the Attorney-Client Privilege and not be reconvening into open 
session.
The minutes reflect that the Board then identified the subjects it planned to discuss in 
executive session, namely “Collective Bargaining, Sewer Plant Claims, Property Damage 
Claims; Chairman said he wanted to discuss a claim where a resident is threatening to sue the 
Town.”
Because the executive session minutes have not been publicly released, we do not recount 
their content in detail here. We do, however, note that, while in executive session, the Board 
approved an agreement with one collective bargaining unit and received an update on 
negotiations with another. The Board also discussed two matters related to possible litigation, 
one concerning an insurance claim involving a sewer plant owned by the Town and the other 
concerning a claim against the Town by a property owner for property damage, which was 
included in a letter that threatened litigation. The Board discussed the litigation potential of the 
claims and steps the Board could take in response. Neither claim was in active litigation at the
2

===PAGE 3===
time of the executive session.
DISCUSSION
Legal Framework
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One purpose for executive 
session is for public bodies to discuss, “strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). A public body’s 
discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall under this or any other purpose for holding 
an executive session; the Open Meeting Law contains no executive session purpose - either 
express or implied - for the protection of attorney-client privilege if the matter does not 
otherwise fall within any of the ten enumerated purposes. District Attorney for the Plymouth 
Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 632-634 (1985); see also Revere 
Retirement Bd. v. Attorney General. 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117 (2018) (Rule 1:28 Decision) 
(Further Appellate Review denied Sep. 13, 2018). Purpose 3, the litigation purpose, offers the 
narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Powers v. Freetown-Lakeville 
Reg'l Sch. Dist. Comm.. 392 Mass. 656, 659 (1984); OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43; OML 
2012-5.1
The Superior Court’s Decision
In its remand decision, the Court held that the Attorney General’s role in investigating the 
complaint is to “determine whether there was a reasonable basis for the Board to have reached 
the conclusion that [nondisclosure of its executive session discussion topic was warranted].” Bd. 
of Selectmen of Hull at *6. To justify nondisclosure, the Board would have had to conclude that 
disclosure would “compromis[e] the purpose for which the executive session was called.” Id. at 
*5, citing G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). That “purpose,” under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), was “[t]o 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation.” Thus, the Board must supply 
information sufficient for the Attorney General to “determine whether there was a reasonable 
basis for the Board to have reached the conclusion” that, if the identities of the unions and 
litigants were disclosed, “discuss [ing] strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation” 
would be “compromise[d].” Id, at *6. Such disclosure, therefore, would have to “have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the [Board].” Id,
For nondisclosure to be justified, the Board must demonstrate that the harm it alleges 
would frustrate the purpose of the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Because the
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
purpose of the executive session was to discuss a particular collective bargaining negotiation and 
a particular litigation matter, the Board’s conclusion that disclosure would harm its negotiating 
or litigating position must relate to the Board’s bargaining and litigating positions in the 
particular matters under discussion in executive session on July 15, 2014, rather than to generic 
harms to the town’s overall collective bargaining or litigation strategies. Id. However, even if it 
were sufficient for the Board to demonstrate a general harm rather than a harm to the particular 
bargaining and litigation positions at issue here, it has failed to do so. The Attorney General 
must determine whether there was a reasonable basis for the Board to reach a conclusion about 
the potential for harm. Bd. of Selectmen of Hull at *6.
In remanding to the Attorney General, the Court observed that it may not have been clear 
to the Board that the Attorney General was seeking specific facts to support the Board’s 
conclusion that disclosure would harm its negotiating or litigating position, and therefore the 
Board may not have presented to the Attorney General all of the facts it could have concerning 
the harm that disclosure might cause. IT at *6, 8. Following the remand, we sent a letter to the 
Board on January 25, 2018, requesting the Board provide this office with any additional 
information not provided during the initial investigation that supports the Board’s contention that 
identifying the bargaining unit and litigant could have been detrimental to the Board’s bargaining 
and litigating positions in the matters under discussion during the Board’s July 15, 2014 
executive session. The Board did not provide any new information in response to the letter. We 
therefore consider the Superior Court’s concern that “the record is not complete in this case,” Id. 
at *8, to have been resolved by these subsequent events.
The Executive Session Discussion with Respect to Collective Bargaining
The Board entered executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining and potential litigation. Although the Board’s collective bargaining strategy 
discussion was appropriate for executive session, we conclude that the Board failed to publicly 
state “all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called” at the time it entered into executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). Generally, public bodies must identify the collective bargaining unit with which they 
are negotiating before entering executive session under Purpose 3. See OML 2013-129; OML 
2013-91. A public body may withhold the identity of the collective bargaining unit if publicly 
disclosing it would compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Although we generally defer to public bodies’ assessment of whether 
the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 
2016-12.
The Board contends that, here, disclosing the identity of the collective bargaining unit 
prior to this executive session would have been detrimental to its bargaining position and would 
have compromised the purpose for which the executive session was called because the disclosure 
might have alerted other collective bargaining units to the pending agreement, thus providing 
those collective bargaining units with the opportunity to use that information to advance their 
own negotiations. Specifically, according to the Court, the Board asserted that “the disclosure of
4

===PAGE 5===
which unions the board is discussing the town's bargaining strategy may likely cause other 
unions ... or interested parties to take certain actions that while [such actions] may be beneficial 
to those unions or parties would not necessarily be beneficial to the bargaining positions of the 
town.” (Bd. of Selectmen of Hull at *2) (ellipsis and brackets in original). We conclude that 
such a risk is not a reasonable basis for withholding identity of the union at issue. It is common 
knowledge that the Board negotiates collective bargaining agreements with its various collective 
bargaining units on a regular basis. The Board failed to show that identifying the collective 
bargaining unit that was the subject of the executive session at this particular meeting would 
have had a detrimental effect on its negotiating position, either specifically with respect to this 
particular union, or more generally. The Board asserted only its stated desire to maintain secrecy 
of the identity of the particular bargaining unit with which it is negotiating because of the 
possibility of interference by another bargaining unit, or that it might result in another bargaining 
unit seeking to pursue certain advantages.2 This desire is not a protection offered by G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21. Acceptance of this position would undermine the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement that “all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called” must be disclosed by the public body chair before an executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Because the Board failed to demonstrate that the purpose for 
the executive session would have been compromised by its disclosure of the bargaining unit with 
which it was in negotiation, the Board’s withholding of that information violated the Open 
Meeting Law.
Although the Board was not obligated to disclose any substance about its negotiating 
strategy or position, and was entitled to discuss its strategy and position in executive session, it 
should have publicly identified which collective bargaining unit it was meeting to discuss. See 
OML 2013-129; OML 2013-91. We note that the Board did publicly disclose the name of the 
collective bargaining unit (the library collective bargaining unit) when it signed the agreement 
with that collective bargaining unit at a subsequent meeting. Although we commend the Board 
for making this information public shortly after its July 15, 2014 meeting, that disclosure did not 
cure the earlier violation. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App.
Ct. 119, 125 (2000), citing Tolar v. School Board of Liberty County. 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 
1981) (In order to cure a violation, the public body must take an independent, deliberative action, 
and not merely engage in a ceremonial acceptance or perfunctory ratification of a secret 
decision).
The Executive Session Discussion with Respect to Litigation
The complaint also alleged that the Board improperly used Purpose 3 to discuss potential 
litigation. The Board entered into executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss two potential 
litigation matters. The first involved an insurance claim by the Town involving a Town sewer 
plant. Because the Board discussed the potential litigation impact and steps it would take in 
pursuing the insurance claim, we conclude that this was an appropriate discussion for executive
2 We note that members of the bargaining unit engaged in negotiations, or at a minimum the bargaining team, would 
be well aware of the existence of the negotiations, and we are aware of no provision in the law that would prevent 
those members from communicating publicly the fact that they are engaged in bargaining negotiations with the 
Board.
5

===PAGE 6===
session, as litigation was demonstrably likely. See OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43; OML 2012- 
5.
The second litigation matter concerned a claim against the Town for property damage, 
described in a letter to the Town that expressly threatened litigation. Because a claim was 
brought against the Town that was reasonably likely to lead to litigation, this discussion was also 
proper for executive session. See OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43; OML 2012-5. However, the 
Board did not publicly identify the claimant or property other than to state that the discussion 
would involve “Property Damage Claims.” The Board argues that publicly identifying the 
claimant would have been detrimental to the Board’s litigating position because such disclosure 
could have encouraged other potential claimants to take action against the Town and could have 
caused that claimant to take further action in pursuit of the original claim.
Much like collective bargaining discussions, when entering into executive session to 
discuss litigation matters under executive session Purpose 3, public bodies generally must 
identify the matter that is the subject of an executive session. See OML 2014-50; OML 2012- 
118. A public body need not identify the litigation matter if publicly disclosing it would 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called, such as when the body is 
considering initiating litigation against another party. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). As in the 
collective bargaining context, we generally defer to public bodies’ assessment of whether the 
inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for an executive session, but a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged, as it was here.
Here, the property owner sent a letter to the Board demanding restitution for a property 
damage claim. That letter, which includes the identity of its sender, is likely a public record as a 
document “made or received” by the Town. G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. The Board has never 
contended that the letter could be withheld from disclosure under the Public Records Law. 
Because the letter seems to be a public record, the Board cannot contend that the identity of the 
property owner is confidential or must otherwise be withheld from the public. The executive 
session was called so that the Board could discuss its litigation strategy confidentially in 
response to threatened litigation, but the threat itself was not secret.
The Board asserts that publicly identifying the property owner making the claim could 
have harmed the Board’s litigating position by either angering the property owner or by 
encouraging others to come forward as claimants. Although we understand that the Board may 
sincerely hold these concerns, we disagree that they provide a reasonable basis for withholding 
the identity of the property owner. A fundamental principle behind the Open Meeting Law’s 
notice requirement is that the public is made aware of the subject matters of the public body’s 
discussions. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). This principle is even more important when a public body 
will conduct its discussion in executive session, where the public will not have the opportunity to 
witness deliberations. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the 
reason for doing so was proper or improper”).
6

===PAGE 7===
The Court held that the Town could consider “the damage to the Town that may result 
from public disclosure of the name of the litigant.” Bd. of Selectmen of Hull at *8. The Town 
did have the opportunity to consider the damage that may result from public disclosure of the 
name of the litigant. It failed, however, to show that disclosure would have harmed the Town. 
Where a claim asserted against a town is already a matter of public record, a public body has a 
high burden to show that harm would result from public disclosure of the existence of the claim. 
Here, the Board made no such showing that public disclosure of the identity of the claimant 
whose threatened litigation the Board sought to discuss in executive session would have caused 
harm. There may be situations where litigating strategy could be harmed by revealing the 
litigation subject to the public, for example, where the public body is considering affirmative 
litigation and may not want to publicly inform a potential defendant, or where a public body is 
engaged in settlement negotiations and may, for strategic reasons, not yet want to inform an 
adverse party that it is considering an offer. See 2017-176; OML 2015-121; 2015-87. However, 
the Board did not offer any such evidence here to support its contention.
We therefore find that including this minimal amount of information - the name of the 
claimant or the location of the property- was required, because it would have notified interested 
parties that this matter was being discussed behind closed doors but would not have 
compromised the substance of the Board’s confidential discussion regarding its litigation 
strategy. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-50; OML 2012-118. The Board should have 
included this additional detail in the notice for its July 15, 2014, meeting and in its verbal 
statement at the time it voted to enter executive session.
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board improperly invoked the attomey/client 
privilege as a basis for its July 15, 2014, executive session. Because we find that the executive 
session was proper under Purpose 3, we do not need to decide whether the attomey/client 
privilege would have provided a valid basis for the executive session in the absence of that cited 
purpose. However, we note that the attomey/client privilege itself is not an independent basis for 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Thus, we have stated in the past that 
communication between counsel and a quorum of a public body may occur only during a 
properly noticed open meeting or during an executive session held for one of the ten enumerated 
purposes. See OML 2012-55; OML 2011-27; OML 2010-6.
CONCLUSION
We find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to publicly identify the 
collective bargaining units with which it was negotiating and by failing to publicly identify one 
of the parties with whom it was involved in potential litigation before entering into executive 
session on July 15, 2014. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of 
an intentional violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to amend its July 15, 2014 
open session meeting minutes to include the identity of the collective bargaining units and the 
litigation matter involving property damage that it discussed in executive session. This 
amendment should occur within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter.
7

===PAGE 8===
With the issuance of this determination, we now consider this matter closed. Please 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
cc: Hull Board of Selectmen
Susan Ovans, The Hull Times
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order.
8
