===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 6, 2020 
       
       OML 2020 – 129 
 
 
Cherry Karlson 
Chair, Wayland Board of Selectmen 
 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Karlson: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on April 1, 2019, alleging that the 
Wayland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 1, 2019, and former Board 
Chair Lea Anderson responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 14, 2019.
1  The 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s January 7, 2019, meeting was insufficiently 
detailed with respect to one open session and one executive session topic, and the Board failed to 
follow proper procedure for convening in executive session on January 7, 2019. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.
2  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply with two 
procedural requirements when it convened in executive session on January 7, 2019.  We find that 
the  Board did not violate the Open Meeting in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and 
open and executive session minutes of the Board’s January 7, 2019, meeting, as well as a video 
recording of that meeting.
3  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on March 28, 
2019, and February 12, 2020.   
 
1 Lea Anderson was Chair of the Board when this complaint was filed on February 1, 2019.  While Ms. Anderson is 
still a member of the Board, Cherry Karlson is now Chair of the Board.   
2 The parties engaged in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), which concluded unsuccessfully in December 
2019.   
3 A video recording of the January 7, 2019, meeting is available at https://www.waycam.tv/government-on-demand. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In September 2016, the Board signed a Memorandum of 
Agreement with the Wayland Public Employee Committee (“PEC”) regarding changes to health 
insurance benefits.  The Committee represents the Wayland Teachers Association, Retirees, 
Police Officers Union, Library Association, Food Service Association, Educational Secretaries 
Association, Department of Public Works Association, Custodians and Maintenance, Firefighters 
and Paramedics Association, and Municipal Employees Association. 
 
On January 4, 2019, the Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 7, 
2019, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed eighteen topics, including “Town Administrator’s Report.”  
Under the topic of “Town Administrator’s Report,” the notice listed nine sub-headings, one of 
which was “Correspondence.”  The notice also included four Executive Sessions under Purpose 
3 - “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with all bargaining units pursuant to 
the Public Employee Committee (PEC) agreement,” “to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining with AFSCME1,” “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
with Fire and Police Unions,” and to review and approve two sets of executive session minutes.  
On January 4, the Board also posted, to the municipal website, a meeting packet with documents 
that the Board intended to discuss during the January 7 meeting.  The packet included a list of 
twelve correspondences sent to either the Town Administrator, the Board’s Executive Assistant 
or the Board, one of which was “Correspondence from Carolyn Murray, Esq., KP Law, . . . dated 
December 26, 2018, re: Town of Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals - Response to December 10, 
2018 Open Meeting Law Complaint by George Harris.”  
 
The January 7, 2019, meeting was held as planned.  During “Town Administrator’s 
Reports,” the Town Administrator brought to the Board’s attention a letter written by Town 
Counsel in response to an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant against the 
Zoning Board of Appeals.  The Board discussed seeking assistance from the Attorney General 
where the complaint against the Zoning Board of Appeals was the fourth complaint filed against 
a Wayland public body by the complainant in a sixth month period.      
 
After discussing the remaining open session topics, Chair Anderson moved to enter into 
executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with 
all bargaining units pursuant to the Public Employee Committee (PEC) agreement.”  She then 
stated the other three reasons for entering executive session as those topics were listed on the 
notice.  Chair Anderson did not state that having such discussions in open session may be 
detrimental to the Board’s negotiating position.  The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll 
call to convene in executive session and announced that it would reconvene in open session 
following the executive session only for the purpose of adjourning.  When conducting the roll 
call vote, Chair Anderson called the name “Cherry” who responded “yes,” and then pointed to 
the remaining members who each verbally stated “yes.”  During the executive session, the Board 
discussed the increase in health insurance costs and the interest in high deductible plans, as well 
as the Town’s contribution to deductibles.  The Board then discussed working with the civil 
service union to replace the Town Treasurer and the firefighters’ desire to perform police detail 
work, and reviewed two sets of executive session minutes.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.   
 
I. The January 7, 2019, Meeting Notice was Sufficiently Detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.4  When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
The complaint alleges that the January 7, 2019, meeting notice was insufficiently detailed 
where it failed to include the specific correspondences that the Town Administrator would 
review with the Board during the meeting.  Here, the January 7, 2019, meeting notice included 
the broad topic of “Town Administrator’s Report,” and then listed nine sub-topics under this 
heading, including “Correspondence.”  While we agree that the “Correspondence” topic did not 
include the specific correspondences mentioned by the Town Administrator during the meeting, 
we find that the topic as listed sufficiently identified the discussion that occurred.  During this 
portion of the meeting, the Town Administrator brought to the Board’s attention one specific 
piece of correspondence that had been received, i.e., the letter from Town Counsel regarding an 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed against the Zoning Board of Appeals.5    
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics related 
to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
5 We note that this Open Meeting Law complaint was not filed with the Board, but with another public body in 
Wayland.  Had this complaint been filed with the Board, a more specific topic would have been required on the 
meeting notice because the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to meet to review the complaint’s allegations; 
take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken 
within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5); see also OML ; 
OML 2016-43; OML 2013-82; OML 2011-54 (finding that a meeting notice should include the name of the person 
who filed the Open Meeting Law complaint).   
   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  In 
addition, we note that, in the past, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or 
presentation by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s 
Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to 
find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did 
not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had.  Nonetheless, we have 
encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Town Administrator and 
include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed.  See 
OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.  The Board did that here as the notice listed nine 
specific topics under “Town Administrator’s Report.”  Moreover, the Board posted, at the same 
time it posted the notice, a separate document listing the specific correspondences to be 
discussed during the January 7, 2019, meeting, such that we find no indication that the Board 
omitted the additional detail in order to conceal from the public the particular items of 
correspondence.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the sufficiency of this open session topic on the January 7, 2019, meeting notice.  See 
OML 2020-41. 
 
II. The Board Provided Sufficient Notice Regarding the Executive Session 
Topic but the Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to 
Comply with Two Procedural Convening Requirements. 
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
A public body may enter executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2018-139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87.   
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the January 7, 2019, 
meeting notice lacked sufficient detail where it did not include the specific collective bargaining 
units with whom the Board would be negotiating regarding the PEC agreement.  Here, the 
meeting notice stated that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 3 to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with “all bargaining units” pursuant to the 
PEC agreement and Chair Anderson’s announcement stated that the Board would be negotiating 
with all bargaining units.  The Board discussed in executive session the increase in health 
insurance costs and the interest in high deductible plans as it would apply to all town union 
employees.  As such, we find that the notice was sufficiently detailed and therefore the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2019-114 (meeting notice should list the specific 
unions to be discussed or specify that all unions would be discussed); OML 2012-68. 
 
Finally, we find that the Board failed to comply with two procedural requirements for 
convening in executive session.  The Board properly convened in open session and announced 
that it would resume in open session to adjourn following its executive session.  Moreover, Chair 
Anderson’s announcement included the specific collective bargaining units with whom the 
Board would be negotiating.  However, the Chair failed to make the required statement that 
holding a discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Board’s bargaining  
position.6  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  Moreover, the Board failed to conduct a roll call vote; 
instead, the Chair only called the name of one Board member and then pointed to the others 
without verbally identifying them.  A roll call vote is “the act or an instance of calling off a list 
of names.”  Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, 683 
(unabridged ed. 1961).  This requirement is intended to create a clear record of what occurred 
and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind closed doors.  See OML 2015-131; 
OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10.  We acknowledge that each Board member verbally stated his or 
her vote to convene in executive session and the meeting minutes record each member’s vote.  
Nevertheless, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law but, because the Board has 
released the January 7, 2019, executive session meeting minutes, we order no additional relief.  
See OML 2014-150.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where the Board failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in executive session and the 
Chair failed to specifically state that meeting in open session may have had a detrimental effect 
on the Board’s negotiating position.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
 
6 In response to the complaint, the Board revised the January 7, 2019, meeting minutes and removed the notation 
that this statement had been made by the Chair.  We commend the Board for taking such remedial action.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  George Harris – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
