===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
September 29, 2016 
OML 2016-136 
Lisa Morace 
Chair, Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee 
621 Main Street 
Wilbraham, MA 01095 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Morace: 
This office received a complaint from Patricia Gordon on July 5, alleging that the 
Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School District (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about June 8, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the 
complaint by letter dated June 30, following an extension of time granted by this office. In 
her complaint, Ms. Gordon alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting 
regarding candidates for school superintendent. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the minutes of Committee meetings held on May 31 and 
June 1. Finally, in August and September we separately interviewed by telephone the 
following Committee members: Michelle Emirzian, Lena Buteau, William Bontempi, 
Peter Salerno and Sean Kennedy. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member member public 
body, thus four members constitute a quorum. In the Spring of 2016, the Committee was 
in the process of hiring a new school superintendent. The Committee had created a search 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
===PAGE 2===
committee to select finalists for the Committee's consideration. During its meetings held 
on May 31 and June 1, the Committee interviewed those five finalists selected by its search 
committee. The complainant, who is a Committee member, participated remotely during 
those meetings. At the conclusion of the final interview during its June 1 meeting, then-
Committee Chair Peter Salerno asked each Committee member to state the names of their 
top three choices. All of the Committee members but the complainant chose the same 
three candidates for further consideration. The Committee contends that it did not hold 
any private conversations, in person or otherwise, among a quorum about the candidates. 
Two Committee members, Lena Buteau and William Bontempi, recalled having individual 
conversations with Chair Morace about the candidates, but they did not otherwise share the 
nature of the conversations with any other Committee member. 
DISCUSSION 
In general, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a),(b). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A deliberation is "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id, A "quorum" 
is, generally, a simple majority of the members of a public body. IcL 
The complainant, who is a Committee member, alleges that based on the lack of 
discussion prior to the Committee's selection of the top three choices for new school 
superintendent, a quorum of the Committee deliberated about the candidates outside of a 
meeting. Based on our interviews with the Committee members, we find no evidence that 
a quorum of the Committee communicated about the candidates outside of a meeting. 
Furthermore, the individual conversations between two Committee members constitute 
less than a quorum of the Committee, and thus do not constitute deliberation, as defined by 
the law. See OML 2016-106; OML 2016-96.2 Accordingly, we find that the Committee 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patricia Gordon 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 