===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 13, 2017 
OML 2017-146 
Rosemary Crowley, Esq. 
Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury & Murphy, P.C. 
One Monarch Place 
Springfield, MA 01144 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Crowley: 
This office received a complaint from Marsha Del Monte, dated August 10, alleging that 
the Longmeadow Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 31, and, after an extension of 
time was granted, the Board responded by letter dated July 7. In her complaint, Ms. Del Monte 
alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) providing insufficient information 
about a topic to be discussed in executive session, and (ii) convening in executive session 
without a proper statutory purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We reviewed the notice of Board meetings held 
on April 5 and May 3. We also reviewed the open session and executive session minutes of the 
Board's April 5 meeting. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on 
September 5.2 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint first concerns a Board meeting held on April 
5. The complainant represents Pride Limited Partnership ("Pride"), which was an applicant 
before the Board. During the application process, conflict arose between Pride and the Board 
concerning certain required steps in the application process. Approximately one to two weeks 
before the April 5 meeting, legal counsel for Pride threatened the Longmeadow town manager 
with a lawsuit. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Board posted notice of the April 5 meeting. Among other topics, the notice listed, 
"Executive Session: To discuss Pending litigation." The notice did not provide any further detail 
about what the anticipated discussion involved nor did it identify the litigation. The Board 
convened the April 5 meeting as planned. During the meeting, the Board chair made a motion to 
enter executive session "to discuss pending litigation" but did not offer any further description. 
The minutes of that executive session have now been released. During the executive session, the 
Board discussed the threat of a lawsuit, including how to respond to Pride's legal counsel. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on May 3. Again, the notice listed, 
"Executive Session: To discuss Pending litigation." While the Board convened the May 3 
meeting as planned, the Board ultimately did not convene in executive session during this 
meeting. On or about May 25, Pride filed suit against the Board. On July 5, the Board met and 
voted to publicly release the minutes of the April 5 executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Entered Executive Session on April 5 for a Permissible Purpose. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair states 
the purpose for the executive session and announces whether the open session will reconvene at 
the conclusion of the executive session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§21 (a), (b). One executive session purpose allows a public body to 
enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
The complaint contends that the Board lacked sufficient justification for entering 
executive session during the April 5 meeting. In order to invoke Purpose 3, litigation must be 
pending or imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. Sch. 
Comm. of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983). Where, as here, there is an explicit threat 
of litigation, we have concluded in previous determinations that a body is justified in convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3. See OML 2017-122.3 Based on the foregoing, we 
find that the Board permissibly convened in executive session during the April 5 meeting, and 
we therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this 
allegation. 
II. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Omitting the Name of the 
Litigation Matter Discussed in Executive Session from the Meeting Notice. 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executiye session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). While 
we will generally defer to a public body's determination of when disclosure of information on a 
meeting notice will compromise the purpose for executive session, the body must produce a 
reasonable explanation for the omission if questioned. See OML 2017-87. 
The complaint alleges that the Board erred by failing to include identifying information 
about the litigation matter to be discussed during the April 5 executive session. The Board's 
legal counsel stated to our office that the Board feared that listing identifying information on the 
notice would inform Pride of the discussion and thereby inflame the situation and provoke 
litigation. For this reason, the Board believed that its litigating position would be strongest by 
omitting information about the litigation matter. We credit this statement, and we conclude that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting identifying information about the 
litigation matter under discussion, both on the meeting notice and in the verbal statement made 
during the meeting. See OML 2016-152; OML 2016-12; OML 2015-44. However, we take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that where disclosing information about the anticipated 
executive session discussion will not compromise the executive session purpose, it must be listed 
on the meeting notice and stated in open session. 
III. The Board Did Not Meet in Executive Session on May 3, and Therefore Did Not 
Violate the Open Meeting Law with Respect to the Meeting Notice. 
The complaint alleges that the May 3 meeting notice, like the April 5 one, failed to 
provide sufficient information regarding the anticipated executive session. Where, as here, a 
public body does not enter executive session during a meeting, we cannot assess the accuracy or 
sufficiency of noticed topic describing the executive session. See OML 2015-21. To the extent 
that the complaint takes issue with the Board's May 3 meeting notice, we note that the Board did 
not enter executive session during that meeting and we find no violation. Id. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Marsha Del Monte 
Longmeadow Planning Board 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 