===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 21, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 169 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
William Cole 
Chair, Hardwick Planning Board 
307 Main Street 
Gilbertville, MA 01031 
 
bcolema@comcast.net 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Cole:  
 
This office received two complaints from Jeffrey Smith, the first on June 14, 2025, and 
the second on June 23, 2025, alleging that the Hardwick Planning Board (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on March 28; you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 17.  The first 
complaint alleges that notice of a meeting the Board held on March 25 was not sufficiently 
specific.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 13; former Chair 
Jenna Garvey responded by letter dated April 23.  The second complaint alleges that at its April 
8 meeting, the Board scheduled a site visit to be attended by all members on April 18 without 
posting notice of same as a meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the responses to 
the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review.  We also reviewed the original 
and amended notice and minutes of the March 25 meeting, and the minutes of a meeting and a 
public hearing on a special permit the Board held on April 8.  Finally, we communicated with 
you via email. 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On March 12, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on March 25 at 6:30 p.m.  The notice included the following list of anticipated topics of 
discussion: 
 
• Review prior meeting minutes 
• Review mail file 
• Discuss any business that may come before the Board 
 
On March 24, the Board posted an amended notice of the March 25 meeting, which 
included an additional topic, “Discuss Special Town Meeting warrant, scheduling of same, etc.”   
 
The meeting took place on March 25, although it started 15 minutes late due to the 
tardiness of two members.  Two other members of the five member Board were absent.  
Following discussion and approval of minutes, Building Inspector / Zoning Enforcement Officer 
Paul Stringham appeared before the Board to report on the status of permitting for four single 
family houses on the Eagle Hill School campus.  The Board and Mr. Stringham discussed zoning 
and institutional uses for single family dwellings, among other things related to the houses.  One 
member suggested that these issues be addressed in an upcoming review of bylaws.  The Board 
discussed options for the four houses with Mr. Stringham and agreed that the topic would be 
revisited at a future meeting when the full Board was in attendance.  The Board did not have 
advance notice that Mr. Stringham would be attending the March 25 meeting, although he does 
occasionally attend Board meetings.  The Board knew that Mr. Stringham had issued building 
permits for the four houses and that site plan review would be required but had no expectation 
that there would be any discussion of the four houses at the March 25 meeting. 
 
The Board also held a meeting on April 8, which included a public hearing on a special 
permit sought by Quabbin Glamping and Camping, LLC.  Toward the end of that public hearing, 
the Board voted in favor of scheduling a site visit of the subject property on April 18.  Member 
Harry Comerford stated that the site visit would not be an open meeting because there would be 
no deliberation.  The site visit did not occur; in response to Mr. Smith’s second Open Meeting 
Law complaint, members visited the site in pairs or individually to avoid having a quorum on 
site at any given time. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. Notice of the March 25 meeting was sufficiently specific.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  A public body may 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by the 
chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2024-75; OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.2  
 
In its response to the first complaint, the Board states that Building Inspector Stringham  
“is always invited to attend [the Board’s] meetings for updates regarding ongoing Planning and 
Zoning matters (including bylaws).”  Building Inspector Stringham was not expected to appear  
at the March 25 meeting.  Although he occasionally appears at Board meetings, the Board does 
not receive advance notice of his visits and it did not anticipate that he would attend the March 
25 meeting.  Nor did the Board anticipate a discussion of the four houses constructed on the 
Eagle Hill School campus.   
 
When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether it was reasonably 
anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2024-190; OML 2023- 
101; OML 2022-203.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body 
guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See OML 2024-190; 
OML 2024-180; OML 2018-134.  Moreover, when a meeting notice includes as a topic a report 
or presentation by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as “Administrator’s 
Report” or “Superintendent’s Report,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law for lack of specificity where the chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the 
deliberations to be had, if any.  See OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.3  Because a 
discussion of the four houses was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the March 25 
meeting, its omission does not render the meeting notice insufficiently specific.  To the extent 
that the complainant alleges that the notices of meetings held between July 14, 2020, and 
February 4, 2025, were insufficiently specific, those allegations are not timely and we do not 
review them.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (providing that an Open Meeting Law complaint “shall 
be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation.”)4 
 
Although we find no violation for failure to list the Eagle Hill houses as a topic on the 
notice, we encourage the Board to postpone discussion of unanticipated topics not listed in the 
meeting notice until the topic can be included in a future meeting notice, especially if the topic is 
controversial or may be of significant interest to the public.  See OML 2025-64; OML 2024-75; 
OML 2020-51.  Moreover, if town staff, such as Building Inspector Stringham, regularly appears 
at Board meetings to provide updates or otherwise engage with the Board, it is best practice for 
the chair to solicit and include on the meeting notice details regarding the matters to be 
discussed.  See OML 2022-111; OML 2021-114; OML 2020-129. 
 
  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 We caution the Board, however, that a placeholder such as “Discuss any business that may come before the Board” 
does not allow the Board to discuss a topic anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting that was not listed with 
sufficient specificity in the notice. 
4 Although the complainant does not reference amendment of the notice less than 48 hours prior to the meeting, we 
note our concern that that topic “Discuss Special Town Meeting warrant, scheduling of same, etc .” was added to the 
notice the day before the meeting.  This is the type of topic that, even if unanticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting, 
the Board should consider discussing at a later meeting to allow for 48 hour notice. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it scheduled a site 
inspection, which it canceled upon receipt of the Open Meeting Law complaint.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21.  The law defines a “meeting” as, “a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Subject to exceptions that are not 
material here, “deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of the public body.  Id. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board should not have scheduled a site inspection 
to be attended by a quorum of the Board.  Upon receipt of the second complaint, the Board took 
into consideration the complainant’s concerns and decided against visiting the site as a full 
Board.  Instead, members visited the site in pairs or individually so that a quorum was not at the 
site at one time, effectively cancelling the site inspection as a Board.  We find that the Board 
cannot be found in violation of the Open Meeting Law where the site inspection by the full 
Board was cancelled.  See OML 2023-169 (“Where a public body does not actually engage in 
any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice.”); OML 2023-107 (same); OML 2020-109 (same).  Therefore, 
we find no violation.5 
 
Although we find no violation, we take this opportunity to provide guidance to the Board 
about on-site inspections.  To conduct an on-site inspection in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, the Board has three options: (1) post notice of the inspection as a “meeting,” 
provided that the property is accessible to everyone, including members of the public; (2) visit 
the property as individuals or in groups that constitute less than a quorum so as to avoid 
deliberation among a quorum (the option chosen by the Board here); or (3) visit the property as a 
quorum, but refrain from asking any questions of the property owner or otherwise discussing any 
matters within the Board’s jurisdiction until the Board convenes in a properly noticed meeting.  
See OML 2017-44.  Going forward, the Board should keep in mind that it is limited by these 
three options and it should be cognizant of the difficulties presented by the third option.  Id.    
 
  
 
5 The Board acknowledged the complainant’s concerns and accepted his suggestion that sub-quorum groups visit the 
site.  We agree with the complainant that it likely was the complaint that prompted the Board to reconsider its 
approach.  Under such circumstances, we urge complainants not to file complaints for review by our office where 
the transparency purpose of the complaint has already been served by the public body’s corrective action.  Pursuing 
such complaints takes up scarce state and local resources without advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of 
improved governmental transparency. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matth
ew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
 
cc: Ryan Witkos, Har dwick Town Clerk (via email: clerk@hardwick-ma.gov) 
 Justine Caggiano, Hardwick Town Administrator ( via email: admin@hardwick-ma.gov) 
 Jeffrey Smith (via email: ) 
 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
