===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 14, 2023  
 
OML 2023-226 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Devan C. Braun, Esq.  
KP Law  
101 Arch Street  
Boston, MA 02110  
 
DBraun@k-plaw.com   
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Braun:  
 
On November 26, 2023, this office received four complaints from Paul Healey, alleging 
that the Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals (“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were originally filed with the Board between October 24 and 
October 26.
1  Town counsel, Attorney Devan C. Braun,2 responded to the four complaints on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated November 22.3     
 
The complaints allege that: (1) Board Chair Steven Cadorette improperly deliberated 
outside of a public meeting when he sent an email to other Board members on September 26; (2) 
Chair Cadorette violated the Open Meeting Law when he used a personal email account to 
conduct Board business; (3) minutes of the September 28 Board meeting should have included 
the “the specific and material changes” that allowed the Board to reconsider a vote it took on 
September 21; and (4) minutes of the September 28 Board meeting were insufficiently detailed.
4   
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023.  
2 For the sake of clarity, you are referenced in the third person. 
3 Our office granted the Board an extension to respond. 
4 For ease of reference, we adopt the enumeration of the complaints as set forth in the Board’s response and the 
complainant’s request for review. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as the 
minutes of the September 28 Board meeting were insufficiently detailed.  We do not find any 
violation of the Open Meeting Law in any of the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaints, the responses to the complaints, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  We also viewed the video recording of the Board’s 
September 28 meeting
5 and reviewed the minutes of the Board’s September 28 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On September 21, the Board approved a plan submitted by 
Prysmian Group for construction of a submarine cable manufacturing facility.
6  Approval was 
subject to certain conditions, including installation of a “shore-to-ship” power system that would 
run electric power to ships during loading.  At its September 28 meeting, the Board granted 
Prysmian Group’s request to reopen the public hearing to reconsider the condition requiring 
100% shore-to-ship power.  Prior to that meeting, on September 26, Chair Cadorette sent an 
email to the other Board members, in which he relayed an opinion he secured from Town 
Counsel, Attorney Jonathan Eichman, regarding the propriety of reconsideration and the 
procedure involved.  Preceding the legal opinion incorporated into the email, Chair Cadorette 
wrote: 
 
All: 
 
I am transmitting a letter sent by Prysmian today and a revised agenda for Thursday.  
I had a conversation with Attorney Eichman regarding this request and he offered 
an opinion that the Board could vote to consider Prysmian’s request.  I am providing 
the information Attorney Eichman offered relative to the potential request when I 
spoke with him yesterday. 
 
Steve. 
 
The above was followed by a four-paragraph explanation of the reconsideration 
procedure, under the heading “Information from Attorney Eichman.” 
 
During the September 28 Board meeting, there was a two-hour discussion of the 
applicant’s request for reconsideration, followed by a vote on the request.  As reflected in 
minutes of the September 28 meeting, public comment consumed well over an hour of the 
discussion.
7  During the public comment period, as well as at other times during the meeting, 
members of the Board explained their rationale for reconsideration, including recently received 
or recently reviewed documents and the applicant’s offer to increase its commitment to shore-to-
ship power, even if that commitment fell short of the 100% required by the September 21 vote.  
 
5 A video of the meeting can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bKLFKzgblkw   
6 See also OML 2023-212 for additional background to these complaints.  OML 2023-212 addressed eight 
complaints Mr. Healey filed with the Board and with the Somerset Board of Selectmen, arising out of the same 
project, and meetings and votes relative to same. 
7 On the video, the Board reaches this item at 1:12; public comment opens at 1:50 and closes at 3:11. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Board Member Joseph Fingliss (who voted against reopening the public hearing) explained his 
position as well.  At least one member of the Planning Board spoke out against reconsideration, 
noting that the Planning Board had relied on the Board’s September 21 vote at its own meeting 
on September 26.   
 
Minutes of the Board’s September 28 meeting reflect that “Public input began at 7:43 and 
lasted until app. 9:00 during which time at least 19 residents spoke.”  The minutes then state: 
“After approximately fifteen minutes of discussion, the Board voted on a split decision (with 
Messrs. Cadorette & Pimental voting aye and Mr. Fingliss voting nay) to reopen the public 
hearing to consider the condition requiring 100% shore power at a future date.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Chair Cadorette’s September 26 email did not constitute deliberation in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [information] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.”  Id.  Documents shared with a quorum of members that may be discussed at a 
meeting and do not contain any members’ opinions do not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2023-158.8     
 
In his September 26 email, Chair Cadorette did not express any opinion regarding the 
applicant’s request for reconsideration, which was attached to the email, or regarding counsel’s 
legal guidance, which was incorporated into the body of the e-mail.  None of the Board members 
responded to Chair Cadorette’s email.  In short, the September 26 email constituted distribution 
of reports or documents, as allowed under section 18.  We previously have found no violation 
under similar circumstances.  For example, there was no violation where the executive assistant 
of a School Committee, at the direction of its chair, cut and pasted advice of counsel previously 
provided on the subject of how to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints, and distributed that 
legal advice to all Committee members with the statements “[b]elow is information sent on 
behalf of the Chair” and “[h]ere is also advice received from the City Solicitor’s Office. . . .”  
See OML 2020-88.  Similarly, here, there is no violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
8 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. Chair Cadorette’s use of a personal email account did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
Mr. Healey complains that the Mr. Cadorette sent emails as Board chair using his 
“personal Comcast email account.”  Nothing within the Open Meeting Law dictates that 
members of a public body use a certain email domain or that all members of a public body all 
use the same domain.  Use of a personal email address to conduct a public body’s business does 
not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-12.  The complainant 
speculates that communications sent from a personal email account may not be captured by a 
public records request or might somehow run afoul of record retention laws.  Of course, use of 
personal email accounts does not permit Board members to circumvent the Open Meeting Law's 
prohibition on deliberation outside of an open meeting.  See OML 2020-53.  We have not been 
presented with any evidence that Mr. Cadorette used his personal email account to deliberate 
outside of a public meeting.  The Open Meeting Law is not violated by use of personal email, 
standing alone.  To the extent that the complaint alleges a violation of some other law, including 
public records law, we note that the Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  We offer no opinion on 
whether Board members have complied with their obligations under separate records retention 
laws in their use of personal email accounts, or whether any action taken by the Board could be a 
violation of some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review. 
 
III. Minutes of the September 28 minutes were not required to include the “specific 
and material changes” that allowed reconsideration of the Board’s prior vote. 
 
In his complaint, Mr. Healey alleges that the minutes of the Board’s September 28 
meeting omitted details on “the specific and material changes” that allowed the Board to 
reconsider the vote it took on September 21.  Mr. Healey has consistently maintained that the 
Board did not have grounds to reopen the public hearing on Prysmian Group’s development 
plan.9  He has alleged that the Board has not shown “specific and material changes in the 
conditions,” as required by the Zoning Act.  See G.L. c. 40A, §16.  As we have previously 
informed the complainant, however, we decline to review allegations that the Board did not have 
grounds to reverse its prior decision.  See OML 2023-212.  The Division of Open Government’s 
review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, not the Zoning Act or any other law or 
regulation governing the reopening of a public hearing.  Therefore, we decline to review any 
allegation that the Board should have explained “specific and material changes.”   
 
The minutes need not, and should not, include information beyond that which was 
discussed at the meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the content of a discussion at 
a meeting; rather, it requires that meeting minutes accurately summarize what actually was 
discussed.  See OML 2023-202; OML 2023-76; OML 2016-155 (minutes should reflect what 
was actually discussed at a meeting, not matters that were not discussed).  To the extent that Mr. 
Healey alleges that the Board did discuss specific and material changes that justified reopening 
the public hearing yet failed to include a summary of that discussion in the minutes of the 
September 28 meeting, that allegation is addressed below. 
 
 
9 See OML 2023-212. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
IV.  Minutes of the September 28 minutes are not sufficiently detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  Although minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; 
OML 2012-29.  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look 
for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  For substantial compliance, the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140. 
 
The meeting of September 28 included an extended discussion of the request to reopen 
the public hearing.  Public comment at the meeting, and comments by the Board members, 
occasionally strayed from the topic of the applicant’s request.  Members of the public repeatedly 
expressed their views on the merits of the development itself, rather than the narrower topic of 
the applicant’s request to reopen the public hearing.  Nonetheless, the minutes contain no 
summary of the public comments at all, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-
56.  The minutes do not set forth any summary of the discussion involving at least 19 speakers 
over the course of 80 minutes.  As such, the minutes are insufficiently detailed.  Without 
conceding that the minutes are non-compliant, the Board has pledged to amend the minutes of 
the September 28 to include a summary of the public comment period.  We acknowledge the 
Board’s commitment to take this corrective action.  However, there must also be 
supplementation regarding the Board members’ discussion.  The minutes note a 15-minute 
discussion among the Board but provide no summary of that discussion.  Minutes must include 
more than a statement that a discussion was held about a specified topic; the minutes must 
summarize the discussions that were held.  See OML 2023-16; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  
The substance of the Board’s discussion must be summarized in the minutes. 
 
  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving insufficiently detailed minutes of its September 28 meeting.  We order that the Board 
revise and approve the minutes of the September 28 meeting within thirty days of this letter in 
accordance with the guidance provided above.  We also order the Committee’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by 
this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617)963-
2540 if you have any questions.  
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Paul Healey (via e-mail: )  
Somerset Town Administrator Mark Ullucci (via e-mail: 
mullucci@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Somerset Town Clerk (via e-mail: dberge@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
 
