===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
AITORNEY GENERAL wwvv.mass.gov/ago 
July 2,2018 
OML 2018-98 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Grieco: 
This office received two complaints from George Harris on January 12, 2018 and January 
17, 2018 alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
on September 28 and November 3; and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated November 22.1 The first complaint alleges that the Committee failed 
to timely respond to a request for open session minutes. The second complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to properly respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business 
days. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes, and by failing to timely respond to 
an Open Meeting Law complaint. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Committee's response to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office 
requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the open session minutes from Committee 
meetings held on September 5, September 18, and October 2. Finally, we spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on March 20, 2018, with you by telephone on May 11, 2018 and May 
14, 2018, and with Committee Administrative Assistant Diane Marobella by telephone on May 
14, 2018. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter-refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee held a meeting on September 5. 
Administrative Assistant Diane Marobella was present at this meeting and took notes on her 
computer. Ms. Marobella thereafter created draft minutes from her notes and provided those 
draft minutes to the Committee for its review and approval on September 19. 
In an email to Chair Ellen Grieco2 on September 10, the complainant requested from the 
Committee "the approved or draft minutes of the September 5 meeting. Chair Grieco 
responded to the request on September 18 suggesting that the September 5 minutes "have not yet 
been reviewed by the Committee." The complainant replied "you should send me the draft 
minutes for the Sept. 5 meeting even if not yet approved." Chair Grieco then responded stating 
"I am not sure there is a draft yet. I will check tonight." On September 28, having received no 
further response from the Committee, the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint 
regarding the Committee's failure to respond to his request for the September 5 open session 
minutes. The Committee provided the complainant with a copy of draft open session minutes on 
September 29. 
During its October 2 meeting, the Committee approved the September 5 open session 
minutes. It also discussed the September 28 Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the 
complainant and acknowledged that a response to the complaint was due by October 18. 
On November 3, the complainant filed a second Open Meeting Law complaint regarding 
the Committee's failure to respond to his first complaint within 14 business days. By letter dated 
November 22, the Committee responded to both complaints. 
DISCUSSION 
The first complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide copies of open session 
meeting minutes upon request. The Open Meeting Law requires that "[mjinutes of all open 
sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if 
they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any 
person within 10 days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22 (c). The complainant requested copies of draft 
minutes on September 10, but minutes were not provided until September 29. We acknowledge 
that the Committee initially responded to the complainant's request within 10 days. However, 
Chair Grieco's September 18 response was ambiguous, suggesting that a draft may not yet exist 
but that she would check. The complainant received no further response from the Committee 
until he received the draft minutes on September 29, one day after he filed an Open Meeting Law 
complaint. An unequivocal explanation of whether the minutes did or did not exist in either 
approved or draft form should have been provided to the complainant within 10 days of his 
request. See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173.3 Because the Committee failed to 
provide such a response, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law by not properly 
responding to a request for minutes. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Committee argues that draft minutes of the September 5 meeting did not exist until 
September 19, when they were provided to the Committee for review and approval. We do not 
decide here whether the notes created by Administrative Assistant Marobella during the 
September 5 meeting constitute draft minutes within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law. 
Even if they don't, the Committee had 10 days from the September 10 request to revise the notes 
into draft minutes. In fact, that happened here. Administrative Assistant Marobella modified her 
notes into draft minutes that she then provided to the Committee on September 19 for its review 
and approval. As such, draft minutes could and should have been provided to the complainant 
by September 20, which was within 10 days of the request. 
The second complaint concerns the Committee's failure to respond to the September 28 
Open Meeting Law complaint in the timeframe required by the law. The Committee responded 
to the September complaint by letter dated November 22-38 business days after the complaint 
was filed. A public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business 
days, unless it secures an extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). In addition, the public body must send to the Attorney 
General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. Id. The 
Committee acknowledges that it failed to timely respond to the complaint and failed to provide 
the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint and its response. Because the Committee 
failed to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, we find that it 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to a request for open session minutes within 10 days and by failing to respond to an 
Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.4 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
4 We have previously advised the Committee of its obligations under the law to respond to requests for executive 
session mmutes in a timely manner. See OML 2017-159; OML 2016-80; OML 2016-36; OML 2014-105. We 
decline to find an intentional violation here where the request was for open session minutes and where we had not 
previously advised the Committee of its obligations under the law to respond to a request for these types of minutes. 
However, we instruct the Committee that a request for either open or executive session minutes requires a response 
within 10 days. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (g). We understand the Committee has appointed a specific individual to 
oversee compliance with all Open Meeting Law timelines; and we therefore anticipate no further untimely responses 
from the Committee. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George H. Harris, Esq. 
Janelle Austin, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 