===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 25, 2012 
OML 2012 — 53 
David T. Gay, Esq. 
Gay & Gay, P.C. 
73 Washington St. 
P.O. Box 988 
Taunton, MA 02780 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gay: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. June Gonsalves on November 3, 2011, 
alleging that the Taunton School Committee ("the Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Gonsalves alleges that during her grievance 
hearing, held before the Committee in executive session on September 21, 2011, the 
Committee barred her from witnessing testimony regarding her discharge from the school 
district. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about October 11, 
2011, and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated November 
16, 2011. We received a letter from Ms. Gonsalves on November 23, 2011, reiterating 
her earlier request for further review of her complaint. 
In making our determination, we reviewed Ms. Gonsalves' November 3, 2011 
complaint; the notice for the Committee's September 21, 2011 meeting; the open and 
executive session minutes from the September 21, 2011 meeting; Article V of the 
Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Committee and the Taunton Educational 
Secretaries and Assistants Association, which explains the Grievance Procedure; the 
Committee's decision on Ms. Gonsalves' grievance appeal, dated October 19, 2011; your 
November 16, 2011 letter to our office; and a letter from Ms. Gonsalves, received by our 
office on November 23, 2011, conveying the Committee's decision following the 
grievance hearing. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing Ms. Gonsalves' grievance in executive session without her 
present. However, the Committee did violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
properly state before its September 21, 2011 executive session the purpose for the 
1 
CI 
===PAGE 2===
executive session, including all subjects that could be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). The Committee also failed to publicly state that holding the discussion in open 
session would be detrimental to the Committee's bargaining position, as required by G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
On September 21, 2011, the Committee held a properly noticed open meeting. 
The agenda for that meeting stated that an executive session would be held "for the 
purpose of hearing grievances." During the open session portion of the meeting, an 
executive session was called "for the purpose of hearing grievances." The discussion that 
followed in executive session included a grievance filed by Ms. Gonsalves against the 
Committee following her release from employment at the East Taunton Elementary 
School. During the executive session, the Committee allowed Ms. Gonsalves to give a 
statement and then asked her questions about her job performance. After her testimony 
and response to the Committee's questions, the Committee asked Ms. Gonsalves to leave 
the room. As a result, she was unable to hear or respond to the testimony of two 
witnesses who followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The issue raised by this complaint is whether a public body that wishes to 
discuss a grievance dealing with the dismissal of a union employee in executive 
session must do so pursuant to executive session Purpose 1, which affords the 
dismissed employee certain rights, or may choose to discuss it pursuant to Purpose 3 
instead, which allows the public body to discuss collective bargaining strategy. 
Executive session Purpose 1 states that a public body may enter executive session 
to discuss the "reputation, character, physical condition or mental health" or "the 
discipline or dismissal of a . . . public officer, employee, staff member or individual." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public body enters executive session under Purpose 1, the 
public body must afford the individual being discussed certain rights, such as the right to 
be present during deliberations involving the individual, and the right to speak on his or 
her own behalf. Id. 
Executive session Purpose 3 allows a public body to enter executive session "to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and 
the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). A public body may enter executive 
session under Purpose 3 to discuss a grievance, because a grievance is part of the 
collective bargaining process. Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge,  376 Mass. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
70, 73 (1978); OML 2012-27.1  In Ghiglione, the Supreme Judicial Court ruled that 
"[c]ollective bargaining sessions encompass not only the negotiations leading to the 
agreement, but also the resolution of grievances pursuant to the collective bargaining 
agreement." Id. 
Although not specifically stated by the Committee, it appears that on September 
21, 2011 the Committee entered executive session under Purpose 3 to consider a 
grievance filed against the school by Ms. Gonsalves, a member of the Taunton 
Educational Services and Assistants Association. The grievance process is outlined in 
Article V of the Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Taunton Educational Services 
and Assistants Association.2  Pursuant to that Agreement, the Committee entered 
executive session to discuss Ms. Gonsalves' grievance behind closed doors. Because 
grievances are part of a collective bargaining process, it was appropriate for the 
Committee to enter executive session under Purpose 3. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); 
Ghiglione, 376 Mass. at 73. 
Ms. Gonsalves argues that the Committee violated the law because it should have 
entered executive session under Purpose 1, which allows a public body to meet in 
executive session to consider the dismissal of an employee. Had the Committee met in 
executive session under Purpose 1, Ms. Gonsalves would have had the right to be present 
at the executive session during deliberations concerning her, and the right to speak on her 
own behalf. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). However, Ms. Gonsalves filed the grievance 
pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement, permitting the Committee to meet in 
executive session under Purpose 3. Unlike Purpose 1, during a Purpose 3 executive 
session, public attendance and participation is entirely within the chair's discretion. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(0. 
While the Committee did not violate the law by considering the grievance in 
executive session under Purpose 3, the Committee failed to follow the Open Meeting 
Law's procedural requirements for entering executive session. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that "before the executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also  
District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session 
is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the 
public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). The Committee 
Chair should therefore have publicly stated that the Committee was entering executive 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemeeting.  2  The Agreement states: "Step 3. If the grievance has not been settled, it shall be presented, in writing, to 
the School Committee within ten (10) working days after the response at Step 2 is due. At its next 
regularly scheduled School Committee meeting, or within fifteen (15) working days, the School Committee 
shall meet with the grievant and the Association in an effort to settle the grievance. The Committee shall, 
within ten (10) working days after the conclusion of said meeting, advise the grievant and the Association, 
in writing, of its decision with respect to the grievance." 
3 
===PAGE 4===
session pursuant to Purpose 3, to consider grievances filed pursuant to the Committee's 
collective bargaining agreement with the Taunton Educational Services and Assistants 
Association. Additionally, the Chair should have publicly stated, prior to entering 
executive session that an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position of the Committee, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing Ms. Gonsalves' grievance in executive session under Purpose 
3. However, the Committee did violate the law by failing to announce a permissible 
reason for entering executive session, and by failing to declare that holding grievance 
hearings in an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the Committee's 
bargaining position. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider this matter resolved. Please feel free to contact me if you have 
any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Ms. June Gonsalves 
Taunton School Committee 
4 