===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 28, 2023  
  
OML 2023 – 241 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Jennifer L. Messina 
Town Clerk 
334 Main Street 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
  
jmessina@Townofgb.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Ms. Messina:  
 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on October 19, 2023, alleging that 
the Great Barrington Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on September 251 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 3.2  The complaint alleges that 
relative to the Board’s meetings of July 20 and September 13, the notice of each lacked sufficient 
specificity and the minutes were not sufficiently detailed.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office.  We also reviewed the notices 
and meeting minutes for the two meetings referenced in the complaint.  We also communicated 
with the Town Clerk3 and with Principal Assessor Ross Vivori by e-mail. 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.  
2 The Board was significantly late in responding to the complaint.  Unless an extension of time has been granted, a 
public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, meet to review the 
complaint, respond to the complainant, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General’s Office and notify the 
Attorney General’s Office of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6).  As the 
complaint was filed with the Board on September 25, the response should have been served on or before Friday, 
October 13.  This office followed up with the Board on October 19, reminding it that a response was overdue.  Still, 
we did not receive a response until more than two weeks later.  We caution the Board that it must respond timely to 
any complaints in the future, and that the failure to timely respond to a complaint is itself a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
3 For clarity, you are referenced in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  Notice of the July 20 meeting stated in full: 
 
1. Call Meeting to Order: open meeting to go directly into Executive Session 
 
2.   Exe
cutive Session - Under MGL Ch. 30A Section 6 
 
• Approve meeting minutes 
• Review 3 ABC Applications 
 
3.  Adjournment of Executive Session – The Board will not return to Open Session 
 
 The unredacted minutes of the July 20 meeting do not reflect that the Board convened in 
executive session.  However, based upon our communications with the Town Clerk, 
corresponding on behalf of the Board, we understand that both the July 20 and September 13 
meetings were conducted in executive session.  The minutes of the July 20 meeting note an 
update on “a currently pending ATB case” with no further detail and a discussion of a “3ABC 
application” with very little substantive information other than it was “unanimously denied by 
the board.”  There is no reference to the address or owner of any of the properties discussed.   
 
  The revised Notice of the September 13 meeting included the following:4 
 
4.  Convene into Executive Session (and will not return to open session) a. Executive 
Se
ssion under MGL Ch 30A, sec. 21(a) for the following purpose: (6) To consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real estate, if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public 
body. 
i.  Motion: Move that the Board meet in executive session pursuant to MGL 
Ch. 30A sec. 21(a) for the following purpose: (6) 
ii.  Roll Call Vote 
5.  Executive Session - Under MGL Ch. 30A Section 6  
• 3 ABC Applications – review and vote 
• 41A Applications – review and vote 
 
Unredacted minutes of the September 13 meeting reference “a currently pending ATB 
case,” “a 3ABC application,” and “41A applications” with little detail other than that one 41A 
application was allowed and one was denied. 
 
DISCUSSION  
 
I. Notices of the July 20 and September 13 meetings were not sufficiently specific 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
 
4According to the notice, the items in bold print were revised. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting, which  
notice must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  
When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
Dist. Att’y for N.W. Dist. v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981).  Prior 
to convening in executive session, a public body must provide a precise statement of the reason 
under the Open Meeting Law for doing so because that is the only notification given to the 
public that the public body would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.  Dist. Att’y for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. 
of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009).  
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body may meet in executive session “6. To 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body;” (“Purpose 
6”).  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session purposes are narrowly construed.  Discussions 
under Purpose 6 must directly relate to the purchase, lease, exchange, or value of real property 
where confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body’s negotiating position.  See OML 
2022-119; OML 2021-62.5  The proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a public body's 
negotiating position vis-a-vis other parties to a transaction and not to escape the inconvenience of 
public scrutiny or opposition.  See OML 2023-81.  Exemptions and abatements are not 
appropriate topics of discussion in an executive session convened pursuant to Purpose 6.  See 
OML 2021-62. 
 
By statute, applications for tax abatement or exemption under consideration by a board of 
assessors must remain confidential.  G.L. c. 59, § 60.  Therefore, a board of assessors may 
discuss such an application under Purpose 7, “to comply with, or act under the authority of, any 
general law,” citing G.L. c. 59, § 60.  See OML 2021-62.  Here, the Board incorrectly identified 
Purpose 6.  Compounding its error, the Board used shorthand that may be well-known to 
assessors but does not alert the public to the topics to be discussed.  We discourage the use of 
abbreviations or acronyms in meeting notices, particularly if they are not widely understood by 
the public.  See OML 2023-173, OML 2023-87, OML 2023-83. 
 
In addition to relying on the incorrect executive session purpose, as described above, the 
Board also failed to provide an adequate description of the matters to be discussed in executive 
session, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-62.  Where a public body has 
erroneously cited to the wrong purpose when entering executive session, we have found no 
violation if there otherwise was an adequately detailed description of the topic to be discussed.   
See, e.g., OML 2023-39 (no violation where School Committee incorrectly cited Purpose 3 
instead of Purpose 1 for entering executive session to discuss Open Meeting Law complaint; 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
chair announced prior to convening in executive session that Committee would discuss an Open 
Meeting Law complaint).  Here, however, the Board did not provide a detailed description 
adequate to cure reference to the incorrect executive session purpose.  Therefore, the notices for 
the July 20 and September 13 meetings did not satisfy the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
II. Minutes of the July 20 and September 13 meetings were not sufficiently detailed 
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.  G.L. c. 30A, §22(a).  Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must first 
convene in open session.  G.L. c. 30A, §21(b).  The chair must state the purpose of the executive 
session and publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the 
executive session.  Id.  The public body must vote to go into executive session and the vote of 
each member must be recorded by roll call.  Id.  The entirety of this procedure must be reflected 
in the open session minutes.  Any vote taken at an executive session shall be recorded by roll call 
and entered into the executive session minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, §22(b).  Minutes of executive 
sessions must include the same level of detail as is required of open sessions.  See OML 2022-
189.  Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  
See OML 2013-l6. 
 
Minutes of a Board of Assessors’ executive session must include the detail required by 
the Open Meeting Law, even if applications for abatement or exemption enjoy statutory 
confidentiality.  See, e.g., OML 2012-101 (minutes of executive session that included property 
address, whether abatement was granted, amount of abatement if granted and vote were 
insufficiently detailed where they did not summarize discussion of 19 abatement applications 
prior to board’s vote); OML 2014-140 (Board violated Open Meeting Law when it did not 
include more complete summary of discussion or roll-call vote in executive session minutes).  
The Board may not create insufficient meeting minutes as a means to protect information that it 
believes might be exempt from disclosure.  See OML 2022-189.  Instead, the minutes of an 
executive session may be redacted or withheld as long as that statute's confidentiality restrictions 
apply.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(7), 22(f); G.L. c. 59, § 60.  See also OML 2021-62.   
 
Here, the Board’s minutes of the July 20 and September 13 meetings fail to list even a 
property address or roll call vote, much less a substantive summary of the discussion of the 
applications.  The minutes do not even reflect whether there was an executive session, requiring 
an inquiry to confirm that the Board convened in executive session, as indicated in the notices.  
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law in failing to prepare accurate minutes of both the 
open and executive session portions of the meetings of July 20 and September 13. 
 
  
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by
posting insutficiently specitic notices for its July 20 and September 13 meetings. We further
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to create accurate minutes for the
July 20 and September 13 meetings. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In
addition, we order the Board to amend and approve minutes for the July 20 and September 13
meetings, consistent with the guidance provided above, and to certify to this office that it has
done so within 40 days from the date of this letter.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt ou
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Eileen Mooney (via e-mail:
Principal Assessor (via e-mail: RVivori@Townofgb.org)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5