===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 2, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 87 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
D. M. Moschos, Esq. 
Seder & Chandler, LLP  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Moschos: 
 
This office received a complaint filed by Richard M. Serkey and several additional 
individuals (together, the “Complainants”) on January 14, 2022, alleging that the Plymouth 
Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 20, 2021, and the Board responded 
by letter dated December 23, 2021.1 The complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide 
certain requested executive session minutes.  
 
The complaint stems from requests made by the Complainants for four sets of executive 
session meeting minutes, specifically those portions of the minutes that pertain to negotiation of 
the Town Manager’s contract. The minutes at issue relate to executive sessions held on August 3, 
October 19, November 4, and November 30.2 Ultimately, the Board provided the Complainants 
with the requested minutes, with redactions. The Complainants thereafter sent our office a 
memorandum—which we understood to be a request for further review of the Open Meeting 
Law complaint—challenging the propriety of the redactions. 
 
To begin, it is our understanding that the complaint pertains only to those portions of the 
executive session minutes, and redactions made thereto, that relate to the Town Manager’s 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 The initial request for executive session minutes, made on November 29, referenced an executive session held on 
October 28. Subsequent requests and communications from the Complainants referenced an executive session held 
on October 19. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
contract. Some of the executive sessions included discussions of unrelated topics, and we do not 
review the minutes as to those other topics.   
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law provides that minutes of an 
executive session meeting, as well as the materials used to prepare the minutes and all documents 
and exhibits used at the session, “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . 
. . [for] as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Specifically, when an executive session is held under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(2) or (3), “then the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits 
used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and 
until such time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such 
disclosure . . . .” Id. Once the litigating, negotiating, or bargaining position is no longer 
jeopardized by disclosure of the executive session minutes and materials, “they shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records 
Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id.  
 
The Complainants do not allege that the Board’s executive session discussions were 
improper in the first place, nor that the Board continues to withhold the executive session 
minutes past such time that the Board’s negotiating position would be jeopardized by the 
minutes’ release. Indeed, the Board has released the requested executive session minutes to the 
public, including the Complainants, with redactions. Rather, we understand the Complainants’ 
central request to be that our office review whether the redactions to the executive session 
minutes are appropriate under a claim of attorney-client privilege.3,4      
 
The Board has explained that, other than one redaction which we address below, the 
redactions at issue here are based on a claim of attorney-client privilege, and not on any assertion 
that the Open Meeting Law executive session purpose is ongoing such that release of the minutes 
would jeopardize the Board’s negotiating position. The Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting 
Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law and to request documents in the course of that investigation but does not give the 
Division the authority to determine whether the Board’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege 
is justified. See OML 2016-129; OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7. Because the relevant portions of 
the executive session minutes are no longer being withheld from the public under the Open 
Meeting Law, we find no violation of that law. We take no position as to whether the Board’s 
 
3 The Complainants have requested on several occasions that our office hold a hearing to resolve this complaint. We 
decline to hold a hearing, as we identify no pertinent facts in dispute. 
4 The January 14, 2022, memorandum raises additional concerns including that two sets of minutes are marked 
“draft,” and one set of minutes states that the Board entered into executive session, in part, to hold discussions under 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), but that no such discussions are captured in the minutes. Additionally, in subsequent 
communications with our office, the Complainants have requested that our office perform “an in camera review of 
the draft minutes and the unredacted minutes . . . in order to determine: 1. Whether the unredacted minutes were a 
faithful transcription of the draft minutes or a wholesale reconstruction of the draft minutes . . . .” (emphasis in 
original). We decline to review these additional concerns because, to the extent they may allege violations of the 
Open Meeting Law, they were not raised in an original complaint filed with the Board. See, e.g., OML Declination 
9-4-20 (Walpole Board of Selectmen).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
claim of attorney-client privilege is appropriate to justify the redactions to the minutes and note 
that the Complainants may be able to challenge the Board’s assertion of privilege in another 
forum. 
 
Although we find, in general, that the Board does not claim that the executive session 
purposes are ongoing so as to justify withholding the minutes from the public, and therefore the 
redactions at issue do not implicate the Open Meeting Law, we do address one redaction made to 
the November 30 minutes which the Board asserts is authorized by the Open Meeting Law. The 
November 30 minutes capture a prepared statement the Town Manager read aloud during the 
executive session. The Board has redacted a portion of the Town Manager’s statement that 
related to a complaint against a different Town employee. As justification for the redaction, the 
Board relies on section 21(a)(1) (executive session Purpose 1) of the Open Meeting Law. Based 
on information provided by the Board, and the fact that the executive session was held pursuant 
to section 21(a)(2) (executive session Purpose 2) and not pursuant to Purpose 1, we find that the 
Open Meeting Law does not authorize this redaction. We offer no opinion as to whether an 
exemption to the Public Records Law may authorize this redaction.  
 
 Finally, in some of their communications to the Board, the Complainants requested the 
notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of the executive session minutes and 
all documents and exhibits used at the sessions. As part of our investigation, we inquired about 
such documents. It is our understanding that the Board does not rely on the Open Meeting Law 
to withhold any documents relevant to the subject matter at issue in this complaint. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that, just like executive session minutes, once a valid executive 
session purpose has been served the “preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the 
session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions 
under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  
 
For the above reasons, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or our office. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Finally, although we now consider this matter closed, we note that three or more registered 
voters may initiate a civil action to enforce the Open Meeting Law in Superior Court. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(f).    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Richard J. Quintal, Jr., Chair, Plymouth Select Board  
(via email:  
Richard Serkey (via e-mail:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
