===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 6, 2014 
OML 2014-48 
Ms. Bonnie Conner, Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
Dear Ms. Conner: 
This office received two complaints, each dated February 5, 2014, from Mr. David 
Kokindo and Mr. James T. Sullivan, respectively, alleging that the Hinsdale Select Board (the 
Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally 
filed with the Board on November 20, 2013 and November 19, 2013, respectively, and the Board 
responded by letters from individual members dated December 9, 2013. The Kokindo complaint 
specifically alleges that the Chair filed a letter to a Town employee in the employee's personnel 
file in violation of the Law. The Sullivan complaint specifically alleges that two Board members 
engaged in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting regarding filing the same letter in a 
Town employee's personnel file. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the November 19, 2013 and November 20, 
2013 complaints filed with the Board; the individual Board members' December 9, 2013 
responses; and the complaints filed with this office, dated February 5, 2014. We also reviewed 
documents provided by the complainant and by the Board, including the letter at issue in these 
complaints. Finally, we spoke separately by phone with Chair Conner and with Board member 
William Goddard in March 2014.1 
Following our review, we find no evidence to support the allegations that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board consists of three members, thus two 
members make a quorum. During the Board's October 30, 2013 open meeting, a Town 
employee gave a presentation regarding alleged wrongdoing in the Town. During this 
presentation, the employee utilized exhibits. Following the meeting, the Board requested that the 
employee provide the exhibits for the purpose of further investigation as well as record retention 
required by the Open Meeting Law. The employee did not provide the exhibits after multiple 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
AITORNEY GENERAL 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
requests over a period of more than a week. On November 12, 2013, the Chair sent a registered 
letter to the employee chronicling these events and placed a copy of the letter in the employee's 
personnel file. This complaint followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In relevant part, a public body is "a multiple-
member board ... within any ... town . .. established to serve a public purpose[.]" See id. at 
§ 18. A "meeting" is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." Id. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction ...." Id. 
The complaints allege that either the Board or a quorum of the Board met outside of a 
properly posted meeting to draft and issue the letter to the Town employee. We find no evidence 
to support this allegation. The letter followed several requests from the Chair to the employee 
for the exhibits used at the Board's October 30, 2013 meeting. The Chair is the sole signatory of 
the letter. Board Member Bill Goddard, named in the complaint as a possible member of the 
alleged improper quorum, denies having any knowledge of the letter prior to its dispatch and we 
have not been presented with any evidence to the contrary. We therefore find that the letter was 
the product of the Chair solely, and that no improper deliberation by a quorum of the Board 
occurred outside of a properly noticed meeting. 
With respect to Mr. Kokindo's complaint, we decline to review the specific allegations in 
his request for further review because, even if proven true, these facts would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. Mr. Kokindo states in his complaint that "[n]on[e] of the 
other selectboard [sic] members knew of this letter or approved of [it]." As discussed above, the 
actions of a single member of a public body as described in the complaints would not constitute a 
violation of the Law. As this determination concerns only the Board's compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, we decline to review whether the Chair's actions violated any other laws or 
policies. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other complaints which 
may be pending before this office or the Board. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Kokindo 
James T. Sullivan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 