===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 183 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexandra H. Kalkounis, Esq.  
City Solicitor  
City of Worcester Law Department 
455 Main Street  
Worcester, MA 01608 
KalkounisA@worcesterma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kalkounis: 
 
This office received two complaints from Nicole Apostola on June 4 and 6, 2025,
1 
alleging that the Worcester City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Council on April 17, and you 
responded on behalf of the Council by separate letters dated May 5. We understand the first 
complaint to allege that the minutes of the Council’s March 4 meeting are inaccurate with 
respect to a particular matter. The second complaint alleges that the notice for the Council’s 
March 25 meeting was insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes of its March 4 meeting. We find that the Council did not otherwise 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Council’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also 
reviewed the minutes of Council meetings held on March 4, 11, and 18; the notice for the 
Council’s March 25 meeting; and a video recording of the Council’s March 4 meeting.
2 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of Council meetings may be found at https://www.worcesterma.gov/cable-serv ices/video-on-
demand/archive?meeting-type=city-council&presentation-type=All. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The First Complaint Was Timely Filed Wi th the Council.  
 
To begin, we must address the timeliness of the first complaint. The complaint lists an 
all
eged violation date of March 11. As the Council noted in its response and the Complainant 
later acknowledged, the complaint was not filed with the Council within 30 days of March 11. 
To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably have 
been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have 
been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). When reviewing the timeliness of a 
complaint we consider when the action that is alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law 
was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual complainant became aware of the action or 
of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Board 
of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague Board of Selectmen). When an alleged 
violation occurs during an open session, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable at the 
time it occurs. See OML Declination 7-20-17 (Edgartown Planning Board); OML 2014-85, n. 1; 
OML 2012-52.  
 
It is not clear why the complaint lists an alleged violation date of March 11. We 
unders
tand the complaint to allege that the minutes of the Council’s March 4 meeting are 
inaccurate and, according to the Council’s meeting minutes available online, the Council 
approved the minutes of its March 4 meeting during an open session held on March 18. When a 
public body approves minutes during an open session, any complaints regarding the timely 
creation, approval, sufficiency, or accuracy of those minutes must generally be filed within 30 
days of the meeting during which they were approved. See OML 2022-50; OML Declination 9-
4-12 (Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Board of Appeals). We find that the first complaint was 
timely filed with the Council on April 17, the 30th day following the date on which the minutes 
were approved. 
 
II. We Find That the Council Created Insufficient Minutes of Its March 4 Meeting But 
Not for the Reason Alleged in the Complaint.  
 
 The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 4 at 6:30 p.m. Included on 
the notice, among other things, was the topic, “9.13a. Transmitting informational communication 
relative to an update on the U.S. Department of Justice’s pattern-or-practice report on the 
municipality and Worcester Police Department.” The Council met on March 4 as scheduled.  
 
Mayor Joseph Petty, acting as chair, began the substantive portion of the March 4 
meeting by explaining that two items were being “held,” including item 9.13a. Mayor Petty 
explained that item 9.13a pertained to “the Chief’s report on the DOJ,” and proposed that the 
Council hold a special meeting to discuss this matter in two weeks when the Chief could be 
present. Mayor Petty asked if that was okay with everyone. Councilor Khrystian King then asked 
that the Council ensure that the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) report be available for 
discussion at the special meeting and made a motion to this effect. Mayor Petty expressed his 
agreement and called for a roll call vote on the motion; however, no vote was ever taken. Instead, 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
there was additional clarification about what would be discussed at the special meeting, 
including a second DOJ report, and Councilor George Russell and Mayor Petty had a brief 
exchange about how the special meeting would be run and whether there would be public 
comment. Thereafter, the Council moved to the next notice topic, public participation.    
 
 The minutes of the March 4 meeting summarize this portion of the meeting as follows: 
“Mayor Petty read the item and moved to Table the Item. Mayor Petty recognized Councilor 
King and Councilor Russell, who spoke concerning the item. Tabled – Petty.”  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must set 
forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2025-18; OML 2012-106. It is not sufficient for the 
minutes to simply state that a topic was discussed; the minutes must actually summarize the 
discussion that occurred. See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8; OML 2023-33. Finally, the 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25; we do not review whether a public body has complied with other laws or rules, 
including the body’s own rules. See OML Declination 9-19-2025; OML 2020-41 (“Because our 
review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review and offer no 
opinion on allegations that the Committee violated other laws or its own policy.”). 
 
The
 complaint alleges that the minutes of the March 4 meeting “incorrectly listed [item 
9.13a] as being ‘tabled’ by Mayor Petty.” The complaint asserts that what actually occurred 
during the meeting was something called a “single member hold” and that item 9.13a was not 
eligible to be held in this way. The complaint further explains that by referring to the item as 
“tabled” in the March 4 minutes, the Council was allowed to take the matter up at a later meeting 
in a way that it should not have been allowed to under the Council’s rules. As stated above, we 
do not review whether the Council complied with its own rules and so would not review 
whether, under those rules, the Council was allowed to discuss item 9.13a. at a later meeting. 
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law would not prohibit the Council from discussing the item at 
a later meeting provided that the item was included on the notice for that later meeting. 
Therefore, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, we do not find the minutes of the March 4 
meeting to be insufficient where they refer to item 9.13a as having been “tabled.” However, we 
do find the minutes inaccurate and insufficient where they state that Mayor Petty moved to table 
the matter when in fact he made no motion, and where they do not summarize the corresponding 
discussion.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
III. We Find That the Notice for the Council’s March 25 Meeting Was Sufficiently 
Specific.  
 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 25 at 6:30 p.m. The notice 
included several headings, one of which was “6. Tabled Items.” Under this heading were three 
topics related to DOJ’s investigation into the City of Worcester and its Police Department and 
DOJ’s report regarding that investigation. Each of the three topics indicated that it had been 
tabled during an earlier meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]x cept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a 
list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, 
reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the 
meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-
152. The topics for discussion must be listed on the notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
See OML 2019-70. 
 
The complaint does not allege that the three notice topics were insufficiently specific in 
their content; rather, the complaint alleges that by virtue of being listed under the heading 
“Tabled Items” the topics were not listed as “proper agenda items [such] that it would be clear 
what would be discussed at the meeting.” We disagree. One of the primary purposes of a meeting 
notice is to inform the public of the topics the public body anticipates discussing. As such, the 
Council was required to list on the notice for its March 25 meeting all of the topics that it 
reasonably anticipated discussing. The fact that the three topics at issue here were included on 
the notice for the March 25 meeting would reasonably lead a member of the public to conclude 
that the Council anticipated discussing the topics during its March 25 meeting. The fact that the 
notice indicated that these topics had been tabled at earlier meetings did not make it any less 
clear that the Council anticipated discussing those topics during the March 25 meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating inaccurate and insufficient minutes of its March 4 meeting. We do not find that the 
Council otherwise violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Council’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Council, 
within 30 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its March 4 meeting to address 
the deficiencies discussed above.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Worcester City Council (via email: council@worcesterma.gov) 
Mayor Joseph Petty, Councilor-at-large (via email: mayor@worcesterma.gov)  
 Worcester City Clerk (via email: Clerk@worcesterma.gov) 
Nicole Apostola  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
