===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 138 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
ghowayeck@fallriverma.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins—one on March 21 and another 
on March 28, 2023
1—alleging that the Fall River Tax Increment Finance Board (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed 
with the Board on or about February 7 and March 11, and you responded on behalf of the Board 
by letter dated March 24. The first complaint alleges that at the Board’s February 6 meeting, 
during which a Board member participated remotely, the Board failed to vote by roll call to 
approve a set of meeting minutes and to adjourn the meeting. The second complaint alleges that 
the Board failed to timely review and respond to the first complaint. 
 
First, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that “[a]ll votes 
taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.” 
940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). After reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, the request for further review, and portions of a video recording of the Board’s 
February 6 meeting,
2 we find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
Second, a public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days, unless it secures an extension of time from the Director of the Division of Open 
Government. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the first complaint was filed with 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s February 6 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QPWkKgTVJYY. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board on or about February 7; therefore, unless an extension of time was granted by our office, 
the Board was required to meet to review the complaint and to respond in writing to the 
complaint no later than February 28. Here, the Board did not meet to review the complaint and 
did not respond to the complaint until March 24. As such, we find, and the Board acknowledges, 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to the first complaint. 
In its response, the Board notes that it did not hold a meeting between the date the first complaint 
was filed and its March 24 meeting. In the future, if the Board believes it will need additional 
time to respond to a complaint it should contact the Division and request an extension of time 
prior to the 14-business day deadline expiring.   
 
For the above reasons, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fall River Tax Increment Finance Board (via email: Tif@fallriverma.org)  
 Alison M. Bouchard, Fall River  City Clerk (via email: city clerks@fallriverma.org ) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
