===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago  
 March 25, 2020         OML 2020 – 43 By E-mail Only  Paul King, Esq.  pking@mhtl.com   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint Dear Attorney King: This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on May 16, 2019, alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 12, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 5.2 In her complaint, Ms. Potts alleges that the Committee’s February 11 and March 11 meeting notices failed to identify the non-union personnel who was the subject of discussions during the executive sessions held on those dates; that the Committee’s announcements prior to entering executive session on February 11 and March 11 were similarly insufficiently detailed; and that the March 11 meeting notice also included an insufficiently detailed open session agenda item, “Superintendent’s Contract.”3 Following our review, we find that the Committee’s February 11 and March 11 meeting notices and executive session announcements failed to identify the non-union personnel who was the subject of the two executive sessions, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we find that the Committee’s March 11 open session meeting topic was sufficiently detailed with respect to the topic “Superintendent Contract.” In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Committee’s response and the complainant’s request for further review. In addition, we reviewed the Committee’s February 11 and March 11 meeting minutes.                                                               1 The parties agreed to engage in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), but the attempts at mediation concluded unsuccessfully in March 2020. 2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019. 3 To the extent that the complaint makes allegations regarding the Committee’s January 7 meeting, we decline to review these allegations as they are untimely as complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). In addition, we decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS We find the facts as follows. On February 7, the Committee posted notice for a February 11 meeting which included the item: Executive Session – To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the MTA, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body (Teacher Assistants) and to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel or to conduct contract negotiations with non-union personnel.  At the February 11 meeting, the Committee first convened in open session and then entered executive session at 7:00 p.m. The Chair’s announcement before entering executive session did not specify that the Committee planned to discuss the Superintendent under the “non-union personnel” portion of the executive session.  On March 7, the Committee posted notice for a March 11 meeting which included the item: Executive Session – To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the MTA, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body (Teacher Assistants) and to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel or to conduct contract negotiations with non-union personnel.  In addition, the March 11 meeting notice included under “New Business” the topic “Superintendent’s Contract.”  At the March 11 meeting, the Committee first convened in open session and then voted to enter executive session at 7:00 p.m. The Chair’s announcement before entering executive session did not specify that the Committee planned to discuss the Superintendent under the “non-union personnel” portion of the executive session.  DISCUSSION I. The Committee’s February 11 and March 11 Meeting Notices and Executive Session Announcements Failed to Identify the Non-Union Personnel who was the Subject of the Two Executive Sessions.   The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3): see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. 
===PAGE 3===
3  
Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).   Unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for meeting in executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies should identify in their notice the specific nonunion personnel with whom they will be negotiating. See OML 2018-161, OML 2015-181; OML 2013-97.4 The Committee does not dispute that its February 11 meeting notice should have identified the Superintendent as the non-union personnel under discussion during the executive session. Likewise, the Committee admits that the Chair’s announcement before entering executive session failed to specify that the Committee planned to discuss the Superintendent under the “non-union personnel” portion of the executive session. We agree, and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the two ways alleged.  The Committee also does not dispute that the March 11 announcement prior to entering should have specified that the Superintendent was the non-union personnel under discussion during the executive session. However, the Committee argues that the March 11 meeting notice was sufficiently detailed because “Superintendent’s Contract” was listed under the “Open Session” topics. We disagree. The March 11 meeting notice listed the exact same executive session topic as the February 11 meeting notice. We find that including the item “Superintendent’s Contract” as a separate topic under the open session portion of the notice did not sufficiently notify the public of what would be discussed during the March 11 executive session. We therefore find that both the March 11 meeting notice and open session announcement were insufficiently detailed, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  II. The Committee’s March 11 Open Session Meeting Topic was Sufficiently Detailed with Respect to the Item “Superintendent Contract.”   The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-186.   Here, the Committee’s notice for its March 11 meeting listed “Superintendent’s Contract” under the “New Business” heading for open session discussion. We understand that some members of the public who attended the March 11 meeting expected the Committee would discuss the possibility of a salary raise for the Superintendent. The complainant asserts that the Committee ought to have specified “Superintendent Contract Extension” on the meeting notice in order to make clear that the Committee would consider extending the contract term, rather                                                              4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
than discussing a raise under the current contract. We disagree and find that where the notice 
informed the public that the Board would be discussing the Superintendent’s contract, and that is 
in fact what it discussed, the notice was sufficient to comply with the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2015-35; OML 2014-58.  
III. We Decline to Find the Violations to be Intentional.  
 We must determine whether the violations were, as the complainant urges, intentional. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. As evidence, the complainant points to the many complaints she has filed against the 
Committee to show that the Committee is acting with deliberate ignorance of the law’s 
requirements. However, in our only previous determination concerning the Committee, OML 
2019-28, we did not find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we 
find no specific evidence that the Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s 
requirements. Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee’s February 11 and March 11 
meeting notices and executive session announcements failed to identify the non-union personnel 
who was the subject of the two executive sessions, violating the Open Meeting Law. However, 
we find that the Committee’s March 11 open session meeting topic was sufficiently detailed with 
respect to the item, “Superintendent Contract.” We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts  
 Medfield School Committee (scchair@email.medfield.net) 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5  
   This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 