===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 1, 2026 
OML 2026 – 37 
VIA EMAI
L ONLY 
Paul C
ogley  
Chair, Somerset Economic Development Committee 
pcogley@town.somerset.ma.us 
RE: Open Me
eting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Cogley: 
This 
office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins—one on August 11, 2025, and 
the other on October 8, 20251—alleging that the Somerset Economic Development Committee 
(the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 17. After an extension of time granted 
by our office, Town Planner Amy Messier responded on behalf of the Committee with an 
undated letter which our office received via regular mail on July 30.2 The first complaint alleges 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when the Chair failed to announce that the 
Committee’s June 17 meeting was being recorded. The second complaint was originally filed 
with the Committee on or about July 19. The Committee did not respond to the second 
complaint. The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to the first 
complaint.  
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
the Chair failed to announce that the Committee’s June 17 meeting was being recorded. We find 
no violation with respect to the allegation raised in the second complaint. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s response to the 
first complaint, and correspondence between the Town Planner and our office regarding 
1 All dates are in 2025 unless otherwise stated. 
2 We note that the email granting the extension of time specifically instructed the Committee to send a copy of its 
response to the Division via email and gave the Committee until July 22 to respond. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
responding to the first and second complaints. We also reviewed a portion of the video recording 
of the Committee’s June 17 meeting.3 
The First Complaint  
The Open Meeting Law provides that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body . . . 
.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The law requires that “[a]t the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall 
inform other attendees of any recordings.” Id. The requirement that the chair inform attendees of 
any recording includes any recording made by the public body itself, including those made for 
public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting 
minutes. See OML 2020-70; OML 2019-154; OML 2017-162; OML 2015-147; OML 2013-136; 
OML 2012-24.4 
The first complaint alleges that the Chair of the Committee failed to announce at the 
beginning of the Committee’s June 17 meeting that the meeting was being recorded. The 
Committee does not dispute the allegation, instead responding that “[t]he Committee 
acknowledges that failure to state the public meeting was being recorded may have resulted in a 
technical violation.” The Committee further responded to the complaint with proposed remedial 
actions it would take and a commitment to comply with the law in the future. We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the first complaint and we commend 
the Committee for its commitment to comply with the law in the future.  
The Second Complaint 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after receiving a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial 
action taken; and send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint, the response, and the 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). If a public 
body needs additional time to respond to a complaint, it may, within 14 business days of receipt 
of the complaint, request from the Attorney General an extension of time to respond. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
 On or about June 17, the first complaint was filed with the Committee. On June 30, Town 
Planner Amy Messier emailed the Division of Open Government (the “Division”) on behalf of 
the Committee requesting an extension of time to respond to the first complaint. On July 1, the 
Division responded to Ms. Messier via email, copying the complainant, granting the request for 
an extension of time and giving the Committee until July 22 to respond. 
 The second complaint is dated July 19. The complaint alleges that the Committee did not 
meet to review or respond to the first complaint within 14 business days of receipt of that 
complaint, and asserts that as of July 19, the complainant had not received a response to the first 
 
3 A video recording of the June 17 meeting was accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mYfKEdX5VU&list=PL34CDZ1DV7_RHNvWNi0rQL_4JNXflQ8ir&index=
7.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
complaint. Because the Committee had been granted an extension of time until July 22 to 
respond to the first complaint, we find no violation with respect to the allegation that as of July 
19 the Committee had not yet responded to the first complaint.   
 Although we do not find a violation with respect to the second complaint, we note that 
the Committee did not properly or timely respond to the second complaint. We remind the 
Committee of its obligation to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints, or seek an 
extension of time, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). A public body is required to respond to a complaint even if 
it believes the complaint is without merit. See OML 2023-31, n.2.  
For the reasons explained above, we find that Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the Chair failed to announce at the beginning of the Committee’s June 17 meeting that the 
meeting was being recorded. We find that the Committee did not otherwise violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law.   
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email:  
Caitlin Hadala, Somerset Town Clerk (via email: chadala@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
