===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 22, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 220 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ed Cameron, Chair 
General Government Committee 
City of Newburyport 
60 Pleasant Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
ecameron@newburyportma.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Cameron:  
 
This office received a complaint from Walt Thompson on October 5, 2024, alleging that 
the Newburyport General Government Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Committee on 
September 161 and you responded on behalf of the Committee by email dated October 16.2  The 
complaint alleges that topics listed on the notice for the Committee’s September 9 meeting were 
not sufficiently specific.   
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed emails exchanged by the complainant and the Committee, and the notice 
of the September 9 meeting.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the September 9 meeting.3 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates herein refer to the year 2024.   
2 A revised response was sent on October 17.  The Committee is reminded that within 14 business days of receipt of 
an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations, take remedial 
action, if appropriate, and send a response to the complainant.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Here, the 
Committee responded to the complaint one month after it received the complaint and ten days after our office 
inquired about the status of the response, thereby failing to meet the deadline set out in the Open Meeting Law. 
3The video was accessed at 
https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/play/3oxvBf8pkG1Cq7lgMQpx9UHhF8Xic9WxVzqd8SVY5O6YzYmQoAD0MOK0
KO2Opv-
zKWG0vjIju0nqvMVI.ZLduE5EwJ6hEA9nf?canPlayFromShare=true&from=share_recording_detail&continueMo
de=true&componentName=rec-
play&originRequestUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fus02web.zoom.us%2Frec%2Fshare%2FO-
dWalCXG6ubH6W2Dv4ZM73lc_pEH-yJPKoWomaDieGy0dVv1ShFXOLWUuwqgoXH.d4KsDbBqt7yhzcG2 .  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Committee held a meeting on September 9.  The 
posted notice of the meeting included a single topic of discussion: “Approval of Previous 
Meeting Minutes.”4  The September 9 meeting lasted approximately 20 minutes.  For several 
minutes at the commencement of the September 9 meeting, Chair Ed Cameron5 spoke generally 
about the need to become current on minutes.  He then offered a brief update on efforts to select 
an investigator to explore alleged misconduct by the Human Resources Director of the 
Newburyport Public Library.  Chair Cameron acknowledged inquiries about the status of hiring 
an investigator.  He assured the other Committee members that they were “close to making that 
happen.”  He indicated that he would provide an update to the full City Council as well.  
Approximately five minutes into the meeting, the Committee voted to approve six sets of 
minutes, which were identified by date by Committee member Heath Granas.  After the minutes 
were approved, Chair Cameron moved to adjourn the meeting.  However, no vote on the motion 
was taken at that time.  Instead, Committee member Afroz Khan revisited the topic of the library 
investigation, stating, “I know we have on agenda, library issues, update on investigation….”  
Chair Cameron again explained that he would bring the matter up for discussion at the City 
Council meeting.  Chair Cameron and member Khan then discussed the logistics of selecting an 
investigator, including the role of the full City Council and the timeline.  There followed 
approximately four minutes of public comment, including remarks by the complainant about 
selection of the investigator.  At the conclusion of public comment, member Khan again spoke 
about minutes and about the selection of an investigator.  The meeting then adjourned. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
 
4The Open Meeting Law requires that “[t]he date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously 
recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1).  The date of posting the notice of the September 9 meeting does 
not appear on the notice itself and is not readily available online where the notice can be found.  Additionally,  
when a public body anticipates reviewing and approving meeting minutes during a meeting, it must identify on the 
meeting notice which minutes it plans to review, if known.  See OML 2024-189; OML 2023-124.  Open Meeting 
Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.   We have 
found that “minutes from prior meeting” is sufficiently specific if the public body plans to review minutes of the 
immediately preceding meeting.  See OML 2021-127.  At its September 9 meeting, however, the Committee 
reviewed and approved six sets of minutes, dating back to meetings held in February.  N otice of the September 9 
meeting did not identify any of these minutes by date.   
5For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.6  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the meeting notice, 
although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best 
practice, table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant interest to the public 
so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future meeting.  See OML 2024-180; OML 
2019-131; OML 2013-87.  When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether 
it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2024-6; 
OML 2023-101; OML 2022-203.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See 
OML 2024-180; OML 2021-39; OML 2018-134.  Even where the chair considers that a topic is 
of interest to the public body and may be discussed at some time, it need not be included on the 
notice if the chair does not anticipate that it will be discussed at the meeting for which the notice 
is posted.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2023-101; OML 2019-26. 
 
Based upon our viewing of the recording of the September 9 meeting, we find that Chair 
Cameron anticipated raising the subject of the investigation at the meeting.  His update was 
neither part of the review of minutes, nor an unanticipated spontaneous comment; it was new 
information that was part of his introductory remarks.  The update prompted questions from a 
fellow Committee member and a discussion that was resumed after public comment.  Because a 
discussion of this topic was anticipated by Chair Cameron, it should have been included in the 
notice of the September 9 meeting.   
 
In its response, the Committee does not argue that the investigation was an unanticipated 
topic of discussion.  Instead, it maintains that the topic did not need to be listed on the notice 
because at the time, it was a long-standing item of discussion for the Committee.  Similarly, 
during the September 9 meeting, member Khan stated that the investigation was on the 
Committee’s “agenda,” which we understand to mean that it was an open, ongoing item for the 
Committee.  However, the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirement contains no exception for 
ongoing discussions.  If discussion of a topic is anticipated, it must be included on the notice, 
even if it was discussed at the prior meeting or at many prior meetings. 
 
Finally, the Committee’s defense that the investigation was discussed in a transparent, 
public meeting misses the point.  The Law requires that a notice include a list of topics to enable 
members of the public to make an informed decision about whether to attend the meeting.  By 
failing to include a topic in the notice for the September 9 meeting, the Committee deprived the 
public of that right.   
 
 
  
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its September 9 meeting.  Our investigation 
revealed additional failures to comply with the Open Meeting Law not raised in the complaint, 
including in the posting of notice and approval of minutes, as noted herein.  We therefore order 
all current members of the Committee to attend an Open Meeting Law webinar training 
presented by this office within 90 days of the date of this letter.  Information on Open Meeting 
Law trainings, including dates of upcoming webinars and registration information, is available at 
https://www mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-trainings.  We further order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincer
ely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Walt Thompson (via email: )  
 Newburyport City Clerk (via email: RJones@newburyportma.gov) 
  Newburyport Mayor ( via ema
 il: mayor@cityofnewburyport.com) 
  
    
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
