===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 1, 2018 
OML 2018-132
Andrew J. Bailey, Esq.
163 Dedham Boulevard 
Dedham, MA 02026
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Bailey:
This office received a complaint from Donald Martin on April 25 alleging that the 
Norfolk Housing Authority (the “Authority”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on February 15, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Authority, by letter dated March 19. The complaint alleges that the 
Authority deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting, and restricted public participation 
during its February 15 meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Authority’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Authority’s February 15 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on July 9 and August 23, and with you by 
telephone on September 19.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Authority is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum. On February 11, the Authority posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on Thursday, February 15 at 10:30 A.M. Prior to the February 15 meeting, Authority 
member Carol Greene received a telephone call to her personal cell phone from the complainant 
who was upset with certain actions taken by the Authority’s Executive Director. Ms. Greene 
shared the contents of that telephone conversation with one other Authority member.
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
The February 15 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Authority 
approved minutes from its January 11 meeting; accepted a new budget; approved cost estimates 
for tub removal, new floors, and painting for one housing unit; and discussed housing vacancies 
at Hillcrest Village and Pine Knoll.
The Authority then heard from two residents of Hillcrest Village, the complainant and 
Jeannette Brady. Both the complainant and Ms. Brady raised concerns with the Executive 
Director’s behavior towards and treatment of residents.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that the Authority secretly deliberated with the Executive Director 
in her office prior to the February 15 meeting. The Authority denies that it met with the 
Executive Director prior to its meeting. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
Authority’s account of the facts and find that it did not have a private discussion with the 
Executive Director outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2014-122.2 In addition, we find that 
the communication between Ms. Greene and one other Authority member regarding her 
telephone conversation with the complainant did not constitute deliberation because the 
communication was between two Authority members, which is not a quorum of the Authority. 
See OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69; OML 2015-77; OML 2011-52. As such, we find that the 
Authority did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting, and therefore did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.
The complainant further implies that the Authority restricted his and Ms. Brady’s 
participation during the public comment period at the February 15 meeting.3 The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that a public body allow public participation in its meetings, but rather 
provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the 
chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). The 
Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public body to determine who may 
speak or otherwise participate at a meeting, and to set limits on public participation. See OML 
2014-23; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59. As it is within the chair’s discretion to limit public
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 We offer no opinion on whether the Authority’s restriction of the complainant’s participation is a violation of some 
other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.
2

===PAGE 3===
participation during a meeting, he did not violate the Open Meeting Law by doing so here. 
Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies to allow public participation whenever possible. See 
OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting, or by limiting public participation.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Donald  Martin
Norfolk Housing Authority
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
