===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
September 10, 2012 
OML 2012 — 89 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated November 9, 2011, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 11, 2011, and 
the Board responded by letter dated October 25, 2011. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that 
during fiscal year 2011, the Board routinely entered into executive session for an improper 
purpose. 
We reviewed the October 11, 2011 complaint; your October 25, 2011 response to the 
complaint on behalf of the Board; the November 9, 2011 complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review; a December 1, 2011 letter from the complainant to our office; 1  and 
your January 10, 2011 letter to our office on behalf of the Board. 2  We also reviewed the agendas 
and minutes from both the open and executive session meetings held on July 6, 2011; July 13, 
2011; July 20, 2011; July 27, 2011; September 14, 2011; and September 21, 2011; and the open 
session minutes of the Board's August 10, 2011 meeting. 3  
Following our review, we find that, although certain topics discussed during the 
executive session meetings at issue were appropriate for executive session, the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by improperly discussing other matters that were not appropriate for 
executive session behind closed doors. We also note that the Board consistently failed to follow 
required procedures for entering into executive session, and failed to include sufficient detail 
about anticipated discussion topics in its meeting notice. 
In his letter, the complainant asks us to review the minutes from an additional executive session held on November 
21, 2011. We decline to review the additional allegation because it is beyond the scope of the original complaint 
filed with the public body. Potential violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body 
should be alleged in a subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the public body an opportunity to 
investigate and take appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. 
2  For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 3  The Board did not enter into executive session on this date. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Because our review of the material listed above included executive session minutes that 
remain confidential, we do not provide a full recitation of the facts. 
Between the commencement of the 2011 fiscal year and the filing of this complaint, the 
Board held seven meetings, on the following dates: July 6, 2011; July 13, 2011; July 20, 2011; 
July 27, 2011; August 10, 2011; September 14, 2011; and September 21, 2011. The Board 
convened in executive session during each of these meetings, with the exception of the August 
10, 2011 meeting. As of September 5, 2012, the minutes from the six executive session meetings 
have been approved, but have not been reviewed by the Board or publicly released. 
During the July 6, July 13, July 20 and July 27, 2011 meetings, the Board convened in 
open session before entering into executive session. Notices for each of these meetings were 
filed with the Swansea Town Clerk ("Town Clerk") and listed the following topics under the 
heading "Executive Session": "Personnel;" "Appellate Tax Board Cases;" and "Abatements." 
The meeting notice for the July 27, 2011 meeting also included an additional item for discussion 
during executive session, "Systems." 4  The Board followed the same procedures for convening in 
executive session during each meeting. The Board unanimously voted to enter into executive 
session, entered into executive session, and then conducted another vote by roll call at the 
commencement of the executive session "with the purpose of opening Executive Session." 
Chairman of the Board Wayne Gray did not state the purpose for entering into executive session 
before convening any of these four executive session meetings, nor did he announce whether the 
Board would reconvene in open session after the closed door discussion concluded. During each 
of the executive session meetings, the Board discussed tax abatement applications. Although 
these additional topics were included in each of the four meeting notices, the Board only 
discussed "Appellate Tax Board Cases" during the July 13, 2011 executive session meeting, and 
did not discuss "Personnel" at all during these meetings. In addition, during the July 20, 2011 
executive session, the Board held a general discussion about the voting method for personal 
property abatements. During the July 27, 2011 executive session, the Board held a general 
discussion of "Chapter Land" assessments and reciprocal inspections. Following each executive 
session, the Board reconvened in open session to ratify its votes on the tax abatement 
applications.5  
During the September 14, 2011 meeting, the Board convened in open session before 
entering into executive session. The meeting notice, filed with the Town Clerk on September 8, 
2011, listed the following as topics under the heading "Executive Session": "Systems;" 
"Personnel;" "Appellate Tax Board Cases;" and "Abatements." The Board unanimously voted 
to enter into executive session and stated that the purpose for executive session was "to discuss 
current Appellate Tax Board cases and non-union personnel." Chairman Gray did not announce 
whether the Board would reconvene in open session. According to the executive session 
minutes, the Board discussed Appellate Tax Board cases, and then commenced a discussion 
4  We note that the meeting notice for the August 10, 2011 meeting also included the same four topics under 
"Executive Session," but the Board ultimately did not hold an executive session on that date. 
5  We note that the Board did not ratify any action during its July 13, 2011 open meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
regarding the hiring of a Principal Assessor. The Board generally discussed the salary and other 
hiring requirements, such as whether to make the position part-time or full-time. 
During the September 21, 2011 meeting, the Board convened in open session before 
entering into executive session. The meeting notice, filed with the Town Clerk on July 14, 2011, 
listed the following as topics under the heading "Executive Session": "Systems;" "Personnel;" 
"Appellate Tax Board Cases;" and "Abatements." The Board unanimously voted to enter into 
executive session, entered into executive session, and then conducted another vote by roll call at 
the commencement of the executive session "with the purpose of opening Executive Session." 
Before convening in executive session, Chairman Gray did not state the purpose for entering into 
executive session, nor did he state whether the Board would reconvene in open session. 
According to the executive session minutes, the Board discussed tax abatement applications 
before resuming its discussion concerning the hiring of a Principal Assessor, which included a 
discussion of the salary requirements for the position. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law therefore requires that meetings of a public body 
be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a) 	 (b), 21. A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for 
any of ten purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). During the relevant time period, the Board convened 
executive sessions to discuss the following three topics: tax abatement applications, Appellate 
Tax Board cases, and personnel. We address the propriety of each below. 
i. 	 The Board's Discussion About the Hiring of a Principal Assessor was Not 
Appropriate for Executive Session Under the Open Meeting Law.  
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 2, "to conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). Although 
the Board did not state the purpose for its executive session during its September 14 and 
September 21, 2011 executive session meetings, we believe the Board's intent was to enter under 
this purpose. However, general discussions of salary ranges and other requirements for a vacant 
position, unrelated to any specific candidate, are not appropriate for executive session. See OML 
2011-34. Here, the Board did not identify or discuss any potential candidates for the position. 
Accordingly, we find that the general discussion about the Principal Assessor position during the 
Board's September 14 and September 21, 2011 meetings was not appropriate for executive 
session. 
The Board's Discussion About Appellate Tax Board Cases was Appropriate for 
Executive Session Under Purpose 3 of the Open Meeting Law.  
A public body may convene in executive session under Purpose 3, "[t]o discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
3 
===PAGE 4===
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session 
Purpose 3. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 
(1983). Here, the Board discussed pending Appellate Tax Board cases during its July 13 and 
September 14, 2011 executive session meetings. Although the Board did not state the purpose 
for the executive sessions held on these dates, we find that these discussions properly fall under 
Purpose 3 as they related to pending litigation cases before the Appellate Tax Board to which the 
Board was a party. We note, however, that the meeting notice should have cited the executive 
session purpose and specifically stated the names of the pending litigation matters that the Board 
anticipated discussing during the executive session, if doing so would not have compromised the 
purpose for the executive session. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2011-54. In addition, the 
Board should have declared, prior to entering executive session, that having this discussion in 
open session may have a detrimental effect on its litigating position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); 
OML 2011-47. 
The Board's Discussion About Tax Abatement Applications was Appropriate for 
Executive Session Under Purpose 7 of the Open Meeting Law.  
Another enumerated purpose for executive session is Purpose 7, which permits a public 
body to convene in executive session "to comply with, or act under the authority of, any general 
or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). If a public body 
enters executive session under Purpose 7, it must cite the specific general or special law, or 
federal grant-in-aid requirement, that requires confidentiality or requires the public body to meet 
behind closed doors. See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session 
requires the enumeration of the enabling law). Although the Board did not state the purpose for 
the executive sessions held on July 6, July 13, July 20 and July 27, and September 21, 2011, we 
find that the discussion of tax abatement applications was appropriate for executive session 
under Purpose 7•6  Massachusetts General Laws state that applications for tax abatement or 
exemption may only be disclosed to a select group of public officials, though certain information 
about the application must be made public if it is granted. G.L. c. 59, § 60. If a Board of 
Assessors plans to discuss the content of an application for tax abatement or exemption, 
6  See the section of the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetin,  that includes Frequently 
Asked Questions pertaining to the Open Meeting Law: 
May a Board of Assessors meet in executive session to discuss applications for tax abatement or exemption? 
A Board of Assessors may enter executive session to discuss and vote on applications for tax abatement or 
exemption. Massachusetts General Laws state that applications for tax abatement or exemption may only be 
disclosed to a select group of public officials, though certain information about the application must be made 
public if it is granted. G.L. c. 59, § 60. If a Board of Assessors plans to discuss the content of an application for 
tax abatement or exemption, therefore, the Board may convene in executive session under Purpose 7, "to comply 
with, or act under the authority of, any general law," citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 as the statute requiring 
confidentiality. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
therefore, the Board may convene in executive session under Purpose 7, "to comply with, or act 
under the authority of, any general law," citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 as the statute requiring 
confidentiality. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). 
The Board's discussion of tax abatement applications during the July 6, July 13, July 20 
and July 27, and September 21, 2011 executive session meetings generally fit within the 
parameters of executive session Purpose 7, however the Board failed to cite the applicable 
executive session purpose and statute before convening in executive session to discuss this topic, 
both on the meeting notice and during the open session. We note, however, that the Board's 
general discussions regarding the voting method for personal property abatements and about 
"Chapter land" assessments and reciprocal inspections, held during the July 20, 2011 and July 
27, 2011 meetings, respectively, were not appropriate for executive session because they did not 
relate to a specific tax abatement application and did not fall within any other executive session 
purpose. 
iv. The Board Failed to Comply with Certain Procedural Requirements Before 
Convening in Executive Session.  
Although not raised by the complainant, we note that the Board consistently failed to 
follow certain procedural steps required before convening an executive session under the Open 
Meeting Law. A public body may enter executive, or closed, session provided that it has first 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair must 
publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. Id. 
Although the Board did convene in open session prior to convening in executive session, 
it failed to consistently follow the remaining procedural steps. These were not mere technical 
violations. The procedural requirements are intended to protect the public's right to know when 
a body is discussing matters behind closed doors, and the reasons its members believe a private 
discussion is warranted. OML 2012-10. The Board should have been more attentive to the 
Law's requirements, therefore. 
v. The Board Failed to Comply With Notice Posting Requirements under the Open 
Meeting Law.  
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. In each of the meeting notices, the 
topics for executive session discussion, including "Systems" and "Personnel," were vague and 
5 
===PAGE 6===
did not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that 
particular meeting. These meeting notices therefore fell short of the requirement that the Board 
state "all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session" will be called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
vi. 	 The Board Failed to Conduct a Periodic Review to Justify Continued 
Nondisclosure of Executive Session Minutes under the Open Meeting Law.  
Finally, we remind the Board that executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session 
has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be 
disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies. 
Id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable 
intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). The burden of 
justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy 
v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). As of September 
5, 2012, the Board had not conducted a review of the executive session minutes to determine 
whether they should be released. We therefore order the Board, within thirty (30) days of receipt 
of this letter, to conduct a review of each set of executive session minutes to determine whether 
all or part of those minutes can be released, and to publicly announce its determination during an 
open session meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly discussing certain matters behind closed doors that were not appropriate for 
executive session. The Board also consistently failed to follow required procedures for entering 
into executive session, and failed to include sufficient detail about anticipated discussion topics 
in its executive session meeting notices. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the 
Board that a determination by our office of similar violations in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Board to conduct 
a review and release the portions of the executive session minutes from the July 20, July 27, 
September 14 and September 21, 2011 meetings that were not appropriate for executive session, 
as well as any documents used therein, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the 
Public Records Law applies. Additionally, we order the Board to conduct a review of the 
executive session minutes from all six of the executive session meetings discussed herein, to 
determine whether continued non-disclosure is warranted, and to publicly announce that 
determination during an open session meeting. Both aspects of this review must occur within 
thirty (30) days of receiving this determination. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
6 
===PAGE 7===
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Board of Assessors 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 