===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 5 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Hanson Town Counsel  
Mead, Talerman & Costa 
alex@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alan Dias on July 15, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Hanson Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 6,2 and, after an extension of 
time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 13. We 
understand the complaint to allege that, with respect to the Board’s April 5 meeting, the Board 1) 
included insufficiently specific topics on the meeting notice; 2) failed to provide timely 
individual notice of the meeting to the Complainant; and 3) created insufficient meeting minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficient minutes for its April 5 meeting. We decline to review the other two allegations. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the minutes of the Board’s April 5 and May 10 
meetings, and an audio recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting.
3 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 There is some dispute as to the exact date the complaint was received by the Board. Based on the information 
provided to our office, it appears that the complaint was received by the Town Clerk on June 3 and by the Board on 
June 6. The difference of three days does not affect our determination that the complaint is untimely with respect to 
some of the allegations raised. 
3 An audio recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting can be found at https://whca.tv/han son-channel/. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held remotely on April 5 at 4:00 p.m. The notice was amended on April 4 to include the topic 
“Map 1, Lot 1282 Snow Street,” referring to property the Complainant owns.4 On April 5 at 8:42 
a.m. the Board’s Administrative Assistant sent the Complainant an email informing the 
Complainant that the Snow Street property had been added to the Board’s agenda for April 5. 
The Complainant responded to the Administrative Assistant explaining that he was unable to 
make the meeting on such short notice and asking that the Board please inform him in writing 
what it wanted to discuss about the property. The Board held its April 5 meeting as scheduled 
and at the end of the meeting discussed the Snow Street property briefly, noting that a plan for 
the Snow Street property had been approved in 2005, that the plan had expired, and that a new 
plan would have to be submitted and reviewed.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
First, we decline to review the allegation that the notice for the Board’s April 5 meeting 
was insufficient as this allegation was not timely raised with the Board. Complaints alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been 
known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs 
during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. 
See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.
5 Here, there is no allegation that the notice for the April 5 
meeting was improperly posted to the Town’s official notice posting location, and the meeting 
took place entirely in open session; therefore, any complaint concerning the sufficiency of the 
notice for the April 5 meeting should have been filed with the Board within 30 days of that 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also OML Declination 11-27-19 (Marion Board of Assessors).    
 
Although we decline to formally review the sufficiency of the notice for the April 5 
meetin
g, we note that some of the topics included on the notice—such as “Generator for TS,” 
“TS Fees – Bulky Load items,” and “Map 1, Lot 1282 Snow Street”—may have been 
insufficient to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. Although 
these topics may have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting attendees, 
notice topics must be sufficiently specific to reasonably inform members of the public unfamiliar 
with the ongoing matters before the Board of the anticipated nature of the discussions to be held. 
Additionally, our office discourages the use of abbreviations or acronyms that are not widely 
understood by members of the public. See OML 2016-5 (finding that “PILOT” is not a widely 
 
4 We note that the notices provided to our office did not include the date and time the notices were posted or the date 
and time they were amended. The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that the date and time 
that a meeting notice is posted be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d). In addition, 
notices that are revised within the 48 hours before the meeting must conspicuously record both the date and time that 
the amended notice was posted and the date and time that the notice was originally posted. Id.  We remind the Board 
of its obligations under the law. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
understood acronym); cf. OML  2015-172 (concluding that “FAA” is a widely understood 
acronym). 
 
Next
, we decline to review the allegation that the Board did not provide the Complainant 
with timely individual notice of the April 5 meeting. In addition to being untimely, this 
allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law. Unless an individual will be discussed in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require individual notice; therefore, we decline to 
review this allegation as well.
6  
 
Finally, with re
 spect to the allegation that the minutes of the April 5 meeting are 
insufficient, we agree, in general. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. Meeting minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic; 
a statement that a discussion was held is insufficient to comply with the Law. See OML 2020-57; 
OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2019-167. 
 
The 
complaint specifically alleges that the April 5 meeting minutes are insufficient with 
respect to discussion of the Snow Street property, alleging that it is unclear from the minutes 
whether the Board voted or took any action with respect to this topic and that “[t]he minutes 
reflect none of the conversation held.” With respect to discussion of the Snow Street property, 
the minutes state “Plan was approved in 2005. Updated plan was dropped off to the Health Agent 
in early 2022 and placed in the address folder. The plan is required to be resubmitted and 
rereviewed, this was not done. Mr. Dias must resubmit application, plans & fee.” Although it 
may have been helpful for the minutes to include more detail, we find that the summary of the 
Board’s brief discussion of the Snow Street property included in the minutes meets the minimum 
requirements to comply with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Although we find that the discussion of the Snow Street property was summarized in the 
April 5 meeting minutes, we find that the minutes are insufficient where they fail to summarize 
any other discussions held during the meeting, instead simply listing motions made and votes 
taken. Additionally, the minutes fail to list the documents used at the meeting and fail to record 
 
6 To the extent the complaint also alleges that certain information should have been shared with the Chair of the 
Board, should have been discussed during the April 5 meeting, and should have been included in the meeting 
minutes, we decline to review these allegations as well. Again, even if true, these allegations would not constitute 
violations of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law does not govern the content of a public body’s 
meeting; rather, it requires that a sufficient meeting notice be posted and that meeting minutes accurately summarize 
what is actually discussed during a meeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
votes by roll call. See OML 2021-128 (Noting that although the public body had voted by roll 
call, the meeting minutes did not record the votes by roll call and stating that “[e]ven unanimous 
votes need to be recorded by roll call in the minutes”). Therefore, we find that the Board created 
insufficient minutes for its April 5 meeting. We order the Board, within 30 days of the date of 
this letter, to amend the minutes of its April 5 meeting to include a summary of all discussions 
held, a list of all documents used at the meeting, and a record of all roll call votes. As required by 
940 CMR 29.07(4), the Board must certify in writing to our office that it has complied with the 
order to amend its meeting minutes.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes for its April 5 meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a similar violation in the 
future may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. Additionally, we order 
the Board to amend the minutes of its April 5 meeting as described above and to certify to our 
office within 30 days that it has done so.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Hanson Board of Health c/o  Theresa Cocio, Administrative Assistant   
 ( via email: tcocio@HANSON-MA.gov) 
Alan Dias (via e-mail: ) 
 Hanson Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@hanson-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
