===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 21, 2017 
OML 2017-128 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Miliis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Munford on April 7 alleging that the 
Kingston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 1; and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 21. The complaint alleges that the Board held an 
improper emergency meeting on October 1, 2016.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
holding an emergency meeting on October 1, 2016 but that it did violate the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to post notice of that meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the open session minutes from the Board's October 
1,2016, February 21, March 7, and April 11 meetings, as well as a video recording of the 
Board's February 21 meeting, which the complainant provided to our office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The Board argues that the complaint is untimely where it was filed four months after the October 1, 2016 meeting. 
We find that the complaint is timely because the violation could not reasonably have been discovered at the time it 
occurred in October but was properly filed within 30 days of discovery. See 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
members constitute a quorum. The Board is also the liquor licensing authority for the town and, 
therefore, may issue special one-day licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages.3 
On October 1, 2016, Board Chair Elaine Fiore received a telephone call from Board 
member Sandra MacFarlane. Ms. MacFarlane explained that, because of recent rain storms, she 
could not host her son's wedding in her backyard later that day. She had, however, secured the 
Kingston Senior Center for the event and thought she needed a liquor license in order that 
alcoholic beverages could be served at the reception. 
At 11:35 a.m. on October 1, 2016, Chair Fiore, Board member Jean Landis-Naumann and 
Ms. MacFarlane met at the Senior Center and discussed the need for a liquor license for the 
event.4 Chair Fiore and Ms. Landis-Naumann then voted to approve a liquor license for that day 
contingent on Ms. MacFarlane's procurement of liability insurance. Ms. MacFarlane abstained 
from voting. No other Board members were notified of the emergency meeting and notice of the 
meeting was not posted.5 On March 7, the Board approved minutes for the October 1, 2016 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
emergency, "a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A "meeting" 
is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public body. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. An "emergency" is defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of 
circumstances demanding immediate action." Id. The burden of justifying the need for an 
emergency meeting lies with the public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.6 
The complaint alleges that the Board held an improper emergency meeting on October 1, 
2016. The Board argues that a meeting did not actually occur because less than a quorum of the 
Board deliberated on a matter not within its jurisdiction. We disagree and find that a quorum of 
the Board met and discussed a matter within its jurisdiction. First, Ms. MacFarlane was present 
at the October 1, 2016 emergency meeting as a Board member and not simply "in a personal 
capacity." While Ms. MacFarlane did not vote on the liquor license matter, a quorum of the 
3 In addition, Kingston general bylaws state that no person shall drink alcohol in or upon municipal property without 
the consent of the Board. 
4 We note that certain ethics laws may prohibit a public body member from participating in a matter in which she 
has a financial interest. See G.L. c. 268A, §§ 23(b)(2), (3). 
5 We recommend that all Board members be notified of a meeting. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board remains a simple majority of its members. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Moreover, Chair Fiore 
acknowledged at the Board's February 21 meeting that the remaining two board members were 
not notified of the emergency meeting because a quorum of the Board had been obtained. 
Second, the Board met in order to issue a special one-day liquor license. See G.L. c. 138, § 14 
(special licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages may be issued by the local licensing 
authorities). Whether a one-day liquor license was ultimately required is not dispositive of the 
matter because a quorum of the Board met for the sole purpose of issuing this special license, a 
matter exclusively within its jurisdiction. 
We next determine whether the Board faced a genuine emergency on October 1, 2016. 
Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an 
immediate response to. See OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45. The liquor license request 
demanded immediate action because the wedding was later that day. Moreover, the consent of 
the Board was ultimately needed because the event was moved from a private venue to 
municipal property, the Senior Center. See Kingston General Bylaw, c. 6, article 2 (no person 
shall drink any alcoholic beverages in or upon municipal property, without consent of the 
Board). The Board did not anticipate discussing this liquor license request at any time prior to 
October 1, 2016 and thus the topic was unexpected. Therefore, we conclude that the nature of 
the topic was sufficient to justify an emergency meeting. 
However, because a quorum of the Board did in fact hold a meeting, it was required to 
post notice for such meeting. See G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b). In an emergency, a public body does not 
need to post notice 48 hours before the meeting, but shall post notice as soon as reasonably 
possible. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(b). Flere, the Board did not post any notice before the 
meeting and thus violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-72. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by holding an emergency meeting on October 1, 2016 but that it did violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post notice for the meeting. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Susan Munford 
Kingston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 