===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 15, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 154 
 
 
David A. DeLuca 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
 
By email only: ddeluca@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney DeLuca: 
 
This office received a complaint from Katherine Connolly on May 16 and a second 
complaint on June 7, 2022,1 alleging that the Holbrook Planning Board (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was filed with the Board on 
April 11 and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 20. The second 
complaint was filed with the Board on May 4 and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
letter dated May 18. The complaints allege that the Board posted insufficiently specific notices 
for meetings held on April 5 and April 12. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice for the April 5 meeting. We find that the Board posted a 
sufficiently specific notice for the April 12 meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the requests for further 
review. We also reviewed the meeting notices, public hearing notices, and video recordings of 
the Board’s April 5, April 12 and May 17 meetings.
2 In addition, we reviewed the notice and 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting may be found at http://reflect-
holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/3099?channel=1. A video recording of the Board’s April 12 
meeting may be found at http://reflect-holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/3113?channel=1. A video 
recording of the Board’s May 17 meeting may be found at http://reflect-
holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/3184?channel=1.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
video recording of the Holbrook Town Meeting that took place on May 19.3 Finally, we 
corresponded with you via email on June 24 and June 28.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Zoning By-law in the Town of Holbrook contains 11 
sections.  Each section contains multiple sub-sections. 
 
On March 23 and March 28, in compliance with G.L. c. 40A, § 5, 
 the Board published, in 
the Patriot Ledger, notice for a public hearing to be held on April 5 concerning seven proposed 
amendments to the Town’s Zoning by-law. See G. L. c. 40A, § 5 (a planning board must publish 
notice of the time and place of a public hearing “in a newspaper of general circulation in the city 
or town once in each of two successive weeks, the first publication to be not less than fourteen 
days before the day of said hearing”). This notice contained detailed information concerning the 
proposed by-law amendments and identified the specific sections of the by-law that would be 
discussed, which included two additions to Section 3 (3.2.4 and 3.2.5), three additions to Section 
4 (4.1.2, 4.1.3 and 4.1.4), and several changes to the definitions contained in Section 11.0.  
 
On Ma
rch 31, the Board posted a separate notice, in accordance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, for a meeting to be held on April 5. The notice included one item: 
“Public Hearing: Zoning By-Law changes.” The notice did not include details regarding which 
sections of the by-law would be discussed at the April 5 meeting.  
 
The April 5 meeting was held as planned. The Board discussed, for over an hour, the six 
sections of the by-law that had been specifically identified on the notice that was posted for the 
public hearing. Specifically, the Board discussed Section 3.2.4 concerning the allowance of 
accessory structures, such as pools, garages and sheds, on residential property; Section 3.2.5 
concerning outdoor vehicle storage and storage container restrictions on residential property; 
Section 4.1.3 concerning new setback requirements for accessory structures like sheds, garages 
and pools; Section 4.1.4 concerning restrictions to accessory structures on front yards, fencing 
and greenery restrictions, and sightline visibility requirements; Section 4.1.2 concerning total lot 
coverage dimensions and open space; and Section 11.0 which added definitions for junk, total lot 
coverage and lot coverage by building, and revised definitions for junkyard and driveway. The 
Board voted unanimously to approve the proposed Zoning By-Law amendments.    
 
 On March 28 and March 29, in compliance with G.L. c. 40A, § 5, the Board published, in 
the Patriot Leger, a notice for a public hearing to be held on April 12 concerning a warrant 
article to amend the Zoning By-Laws and create a new “MBTA Overlay District.” The notice 
identified multiple parcels, by map and lot number, in a 230-acre area in Holbrook that would be 
implicated by the proposed amendment.4 
 
3 A video recording of the Town Meeting may be found at http://reflect-
holbrook.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/3197?channel=1. 
4 The complaint alleges that the Board incorrectly identified a parcel included in the public hearing notice. We note 
that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, because it concerns an 
error with a public hearing notice, not an open meeting notice. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board duly posted a separate notice, in accordance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25, for a meeting to be held on April 12. The notice included one item: “MBTA 
Overlay District, to amend zoning bylaw at town meeting.” The notice did not identify which 
parcels would be implicated by the proposed amendment.  
 
The April 12 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting the Board discussed the 
creation of a new MBTA Overlay District that would be added to the town’s Zoning By-law.  
The Board generally discussed the language of the new by-law including allowed uses for land, 
lot sizes, open space, and parking and building restrictions. Although certain streets were 
mentioned during this discussion, the Board did not discuss the specific areas of town that would 
be included in such a district other than to suggest that such district would need to be within half 
a mile of a commuter rail station.  
 
On April 11, the Board received an Open Meeting Law complaint alleging that the notice 
for the April 5 meeting contained insufficient specificity regarding the proposed Zoning By-Law 
amendments. In response to this complaint, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
May 17. The notice listed the six sections of the by-law previously discussed at the April 5 
meeting, including the two additions to Section 3, three additions to Section 4, and the changes 
to the definitions contained in Section 11.   
 
The May 17 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board agreed to 
remove from the warrant two of the proposed by-law amendments, Sections 3.2.4 and 3.2.5. The 
Board then discussed the remaining sections of the by-law in detail, outlining how each by-law 
amendment would affect each zoning district and explaining the reasoning behind each 
amendment. The Board voted unanimously to bring these by-law amendments to Town Meeting 
for approval.  
 
At Town Meeting on May 18, the residents of Holbrook approved Zoning By-Law 
amendments 4.1.2 and 4.1.3 and voted to refer the amendment to Zoning By-Law Section 11.0 
back to the Board for further consideration. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.
5  
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board posted an insufficiently specific notice for its 
April 5 meeting. Here, the notice only listed the topic as “Zoning By-Law changes” without 
identifying the specific sections of the by-law the Board intended to discuss. Where a public 
body anticipates discussing specific warrant or zoning articles, it must specifically list them in its 
meeting notice. See OML 2011-7. However, where a public body is reviewing all articles for a 
Town Meeting Warrant or all articles of a zoning by-law, it is not required to list all articles on 
its meeting notice. See OML 2012-83. Where the Board anticipated discussing and actually 
discussed six specific sections of the Zoning By-Law during its April 5 meeting, it should have 
listed those specific sections on the notice. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its April 5 meeting. We remind the Board 
that the required level of specificity must be included on or with the notice itself; it is insufficient 
that the information is available elsewhere, such as on a separate public hearing notice or on file 
in a clerk’s office. See OML 2019-22; Town of Swansea v. Healey, 2018 WL 8692757, at *3 
(Suffolk Sup. Ct. October 29, 2018).   
 
We a
cknowledge that the Board posted a separate notice for a public hearing and that that 
notice included the specific sections of the by-law that the Board intended to discuss during the 
April 5 meeting. While that notice was not a replacement for the notice required to be posted 
pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, we find no indication that the Board intended to withhold 
information from the public as that notice included the six specific sections of the by-law that the 
Board intended to discuss during the April 5 meeting. Moreover, the Board posted notice for a 
meeting on May 17 and included the specific proposed sections of the by-law that had been 
previously discussed at the April 5 meeting, and the Board discussed again, during the May 17 
meeting, those specific sections of the by-law. As such, we order no further remedial action. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board posted an insufficiently specific notice for 
its Ap
ril 12 meeting where the notice identified the topic as “MBTA Overlay District” without 
including the specific properties that would comprise such a district. When reviewing a meeting 
notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was 
actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the 
public aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2021-22; OML 2020-137; OML 2019-64. Here, 
the Board did not discuss any specific area of town or streets that would comprise such a district 
but rather focused on the general language that should be included in this newly proposed by-
law. As such, we find that this topic was sufficient to inform the public of the anticipated nature 
of the Board’s discussion.   
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posted an insufficiently specific notice for the meeting held on April 5. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Kerry Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted By: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Katherine Connolly (via e-mail: ) 
Holbrook Planning Board (via email: ghanley@holbrookmassachusetts.us)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
