===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BO STON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 26, 2018 
OML 2018-37 
Joseph I. Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received a complaint from CJ Ferry, dated April 7, 2017, alleging that the Fall 
River Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 29, 2017, and the Board responded 
to the original complaint by letter dated April 6, 2017. In his complaint, Mr. Ferry alleges that 
the Board discussed public business prior to convening a meeting, and additionally that this 
discussion was difficult to hear for members of the public present in the meeting room. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We spoke with complainant by telephone on January 24, 
2018, and we spoke with a Fall River resident named Michelle Murphy by telephone on 
February 23, 2018. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on March 6, 
2018, and we reviewed a supplemental response from the Board's legal counsel filed with our 
office on March 12, 2018.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a four-member body, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. The complaint concerns a Board meeting held on March 28, 2017. Prior to 
the meeting being officially convened, all Board members were seated in the meeting room. 
Board chair Keith Paquette asked the city planner about the legal status of a particular street. 
The city planner stated that he was uncertain, but that an attorney or an engineer present may be 
able to answer the question. The engineer stated that the road in question was a private way. At 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
this point, the complainant voiced confusion over whether the meeting had begun. The chair 
then formally convened the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
Under the Open Meeting Law, all meetings of public bodies must be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b). The law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is a simple majority of 
the body's members. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the Board 
chair asked the city planner a factual question within earshot of the other Board members. As an 
initial matter, we note that a one-way factual statement, when made between or among a quorum 
of a public body, constitutes deliberation within the meaning of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2017-110.2 Therefore, such factual inquiries can only occur between a quorum during a 
noticed meeting. However, in the present case, the chair's question took place at the location and 
approximately at the time listed on the Board's meeting notice.3 While the chair had not 
formally convened the Board's meeting at the time the question was asked, the Open Meeting 
Law does not contain any provision requiring that a formal statement be made at the beginning 
of a meeting. On these facts, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Despite the foregoing, we note that the best practice is for a body to make clear to those in 
attendance when a meeting has officially begun, and to reserve all conversation until that 
statement is made. 
The complaint also alleges that the chair's question was inaudible to the members of the 
public present in the meeting room. Indeed, Michelle Murphy, who was present at the meeting, 
stated to our office that she could not hear the chair's question, or the response to it. However, it 
is clear that the complainant heard the chair's question, and it is undisputed that the remainder of 
the meeting took place at a sufficient volume. We decline to find a violation, but remind the 
Board that the access to open meetings assured by the Open Meeting Law includes the right to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the public body. See OML 2018-25. Accordingly, all 
deliberations must be audible to members of the public. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The complainant stated to our office that the chair's question to the engineer took place approximately ten minutes 
prior to the posted start time for the meeting. Ms. Murphy, who was present during the meeting at issue, could not 
recall when the questioning took place in relation to the posted start time. The Board stated that the question took 
place at or around the posted start time. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's 
version of events. See OML 2018-28. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: CJ Ferry 
Fall River Planning Board 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganafo 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 