===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
January 17, 2012 
OML 2012 - 3 
Timothy J. Gordon 
Chairman, Board of Selectmen 
Town of Holbrook 
50 North Franldin St. 
Holbrook, MA 02343 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Gordon: 
This office received a complaint from Richard Monahan on May 23, 2011, alleging that 
the Holbrook Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Law when it revised its 
previously posted meeting notice to add a topic for discussion, namely the complainant's 
building inspector certification status and a vote to dismiss him, fewer than 48 hours before the 
Board's February 22, 2011 meeting. Additionally, Mr. Monahan alleges that the Board should 
have considered his dismissal in executive session. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on March 21, 2011, and we received the Board's response on April 1, 2011. 
We reviewed Mr. Monahan's March 21, 2011 complaint filed with the Board; the May 
23, 2011 complaint filed with our office; the Board's March 31, 2011 response and exhibits, 
which included the following: a letter from Holbrook's Town Administrator to Mr. Monahan, 
dated February 14, 2011; email correspondence between the Town Administrator and then Board 
Chairman Matthew Moore, dated February 17, 2011; the meeting agenda posted on February 17, 
2011; a letter from the Massachusetts Department of Public Safety's Building Official 
Certification Committee ("BOCC") to Mr. Monahan dated February 18, 2011; and a revised 
meeting agenda posted on February 18, 2011. Finally, we spoke with Kim Anderson, a 
representative of the BOCC, on August 4, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the Chair did not reasonably anticipate discussing the topic 48 hours before the meeting. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  
The Town of Holbrook conditionally appointed Mr. Monahan as a building commissioner 
on July 9, 2009. Applicable building code regulations require conditionally appointed building 
commissioners (or inspectors of buildings) to pass certification examinations within 18 months 
of the start of their employment. 780 C.M.R. § 110.R7.1.7.5.1. Approximately 19 months after 
Mr. Monahan's appointment, on February 14, 2011, Holbrook's Town Administrator, Michael 
Yunits, sent a letter to Mr. Monahan asking him to list any professional courses and tests he had 
completed since his appointment date. Mr. Yunits explained that he needed the information in 
preparation for the Board meeting scheduled for Tuesday, February 22, 2011. 
In an email sent to Board Chair Matthew Moore on the afternoon of Thursday, February 
17, 2011, Mr. Yunits wrote that Mr. Monahan would be out of town the following week and 
could not attend the Board's February 22, 2011 meeting. Mr. Yunits asked the Chair whether he 
wanted to reschedule the planned discussion of the conditions of Mr. Monahan's appointment. 
Mr. Moore responded within the hour, writing, "That is ok, please reschedule Rick for the 
following meeting." According to Mr. Monahan's complaint, the Board's next meeting was 
scheduled for March 8, 2011. The agenda for the Board's February 22, 2011 meeting was posted 
a few hours after the aforementioned email exchange. The agenda did not list Mr. Monahan's 
building inspector certification status as a topic for discussion. 
On the following day, Friday, February 18, 2011, Mr. Yunits received a copy of a letter 
from the BOCC to Mr. Monahan, which indicated that the BOCC was not able to grant Mr. 
Monahan's request for an extension of time to become certified as a building commissioner. See 
780 C.M.R. §§ 110.R7.1.7.5 and 110.R7.1.7.6 (providing that a conditional appointee "unable to 
comply with the examination schedule" may, for cause, request an extension of time, but 
conditional appointees "who have not attempted the examination schedule . . . shall not be 
granted an extension"). The letter cautioned that continuing to serve as a building commissioner 
without certification beyond the 18-month conditional appointment period was a violation of 
law. Finally, the letter informed Mr. Monahan of his right to appeal the BOCC' s decision by 
requesting a hearing by February 23, 2011, so that he may "remain in the position of building 
commissioner for the Town of Holbrook." 
Following receipt of this letter, on February 18, 2011 the Board revised the agenda for 
the February 22, 2011 meeting and added a new item, "G. Discussion regarding the Building 
Inspector's certification" under "V. New Business." During its open session meeting on 
Tuesday, February 22, 2011, the Board voted to terminate Mr. Monahan's employment as 
Holbrook's building commissioner. Mr. Monahan, who was out of town on vacation, was not 
present at the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in emergencies, public bodies "post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays," and that the "[n]otice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and 
shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
2 
===PAGE 3===
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Thus, a public 
body may only discuss a topic that was not included in the meeting notice if the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate discussion of that topic at least 48 hours before the meeting. 
Here, the Board posted two notices — one on February 17, 2011 and an amended notice 
on February 18, 2011 — in advance of its February 22, 2011 meeting. Because this was not an 
emergency meeting and because Monday, February 21, 2011 was a legal holiday,' the Board was 
required to post notice of its meeting by 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 17, 2011. At that time, 
when the original meeting notice was posted, the Chair did not actually or reasonably anticipate 
that the Board would discuss the issue of Mr. Monahan's certification at its February 22, 2011 
meeting. While it appears that the Board originally intended to discuss this matter during that 
meeting, the email correspondence with the Town Administrator shows that the Chair 
subsequently decided to postpone consideration of this item in order to accommodate Mr. 
Monahan's vacation schedule. After receiving the BOCC's letter on February 18, 2011, 
however, the Chair had concerns and revised the meeting agenda that day to add the topic of Mr. 
Monahan's certification status. Because the Chair did not reasonably anticipate this as a topic 
for discussion 48 hours before the Board's February 22, 2011 meeting, it was not unlawful to add 
the topic to the meeting notice.2  
While it is not unlawful for a public body to add an unanticipated topic to a meeting 
notice, the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion of items 
that do not require immediate action and that were not listed in a notice at least 48 hours before a 
meeting. It does not appear that the issues relating to Mr. Monahan's certification demanded 
immediate action. According to his complaint, Mr. Monahan had an "assistant building 
inspector" who was "fully certified." Consequently, despite Mr. Monahan's lack of certification, 
Holbrook could rely on the services of the assistant building inspector while the matter was 
under consideration.3  Additionally, the BOCC's letter to Mr. Monahan specified that he had 
until February 23, 2011 to appeal the denial of his request of an extension. We spoke with a 
representative of the BOCC on August 4, 2011, and understand that the BOCC did not expect the 
Board to take immediate action to remove Mr. Monahan, particularly because Mr. Monahan had 
a right to appeal the denial of his extension. Finally, the Board was aware that Mr. Monahan 
could not be present at the February 22, 2011 Board meeting, and the Board had agreed not to 
Washington's Birthday, a Massachusetts legal holiday. 
2  The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law website, at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting,  provides a Frequently 
Asked Question on this point: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
3  Building code regulations provide that a building commissioner "is authorized to designate an alternate who shall 
exercise all the powers of the inspector of buildings during the temporary absence, disability or conflict of interest of 
the inspector of buildings," and that "[s]aid alternate shall be duly qualified and certified." 780 C.M.R. § 105.2. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
consider his employment status at that time for that reason. Although it did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by considering the topic during this meeting, the Board should have postponed any 
vote until a subsequent meeting where Mr. Monahan could attend and speak on his own behalf. 
As a final matter, we address Mr. Monahan's contention that the Board should have 
discussed his termination during an executive session. The Open Meeting Law provides that a 
"public body may meet in executive session" for a number of listed purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(emphasis added). Public bodies are under no obligation to meet in closed session for any 
reason. We are unable to address whether Mr. Monahan has claims under any other laws 
regarding the Board's public discussion of his termination. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by considering a topic that 
was not included in the meeting notice 48 hours in advance of its February 22, 2011 meeting. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerelx, 
Ji  athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Richard Monahan 
4 