===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 2, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 179 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kathryn M. Fallon, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Malden Legal Department 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Fallon: 
 
This office received one complaint each from Debbie DeMaria and Ryan O’Malley, both 
members of the Malden City Council (the “Council”), alleging that the Council, the Council’s 
License Committee, and the Council’s Rules and Ordinance Committee (collectively, the 
“Committees”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, Councilor 
DeMaria’s complaint alleges that Councilor Jadeane Sica, as a member of the License 
Committee, deliberated via email on January 25, 2021,
1 and Councilor O’Malley’s complaint 
alleges that Councilor Craig Spadafora deliberated via email on January 26, January 28, and 
February 21.2   
 
Councilor DeMaria’s complaint was filed with the Council on February 20, and you 
responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated March 16. Thereafter, Councilor DeMaria 
filed her complaint with our office on April 12. Councilor O’Malley’s complaint was filed with 
the Council on February 25, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated March 
23.
3 Thereafter, Councilor O’Malley filed his complaint with our office on April 26.  
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We note that our review is limited to allegations raised in the original Open Meeting Law complaints. See OML 
Declination 5-23-2018 (Uxbridge Board of Selectmen).  
3 The Council raises the timeliness of Councilor O’Malley’s complaint and its response thereto. We note that the 
complaint, filed by email at 4:58 p.m. on February 25, was timely filed with respect to all allegations. The Council 
asserts that because the complaint was filed two minutes before City offices closed on Thursday, February 25, and 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Council, its License Committee, and its Rules and Ordinance 
Committee, and specifically Councilors Sica and Spadafora and Councilor Peg Crowe, violated 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating via email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Council’s responses, the requests for further review, the 
emails at issue, and an additional response provided by the Council.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council is an eleven-member body; therefore, six 
members constitute a quorum. The Council is the legislative body in the City of Malden. The 
Council has broad authority. As described on the Council’s webpage, it “sets policy; adopts 
ordinances, orders and resolutions; reviews and approves the City’s annual budget; approves or 
confirms appropriations, appointments and other matters proposed by the Mayor; and performs 
many other legislative related tasks.”4 The License Committee and the Rules and Ordinance 
Committee are subcommittees of the Council and are comprised entirely of members of the 
Council. Each of these two committees has five members; therefore, a quorum of either body 
consists of three members of that body.  
 
On November 5, 2019, our office issued an Open Meeting Law determination finding 
that a member of the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by impermissibly deliberating 
outside of a meeting via email. OML 2019-140. In our determination we ordered the Council’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Law and cautioned that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Councilors Sica, Spadafora, and Crowe were all members of the Council at the 
time OML 2019-140 was issued. 
 
On January 21, the License Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 
26. Included on the notice was the topic “340-20 Petition: Class II - Brothers Auto Body, 969 
Salem Street, Malden, MA - 0 cars.” On January 25, Councilor Sica forwarded to three fellow 
members of the License Committee an email from the Licensing Administrator for the City of 
Revere regarding Brothers Auto Body. In the body of Councilor Sica’s email, Councilor Sica 
stated “I cannot remember if I already sent you this information regarding brothers auto body. 
Not sure if it’s coming off the table at tomorrow night[’]s meeting but I will not be supporting 
it[]s renewal. Let me know if you have any questions.”   
 
On January 26, Councilor Spadafora sent two emails to the entire Council. The first 
email, titled “Green Space Resolve” was addressed to the Councilors in their capacity as Council 
members. In the email, Councilor Spadafora reminded the Council that he sponsored a Council 
 
because City offices are closed on Fridays, the complaint was not received until Monday, March 1. This speaks to 
the timeliness of the Council’s response to the complaint, not to the timeliness of the complaint itself. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a complaint be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation, and that a public 
body respond to a complaint within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05.   
4 https://www.cityofmalden.org/469/City-Council. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
“resolve” to work with the Community Preservation Committee to explore increasing the City’s 
open space through the acquisition of property. Councilor Spadafora went on to share his 
thoughts and opinions regarding the need to expand green space in the City, the benefits of doing 
so, and the challenges in trying to accomplish such a goal. Councilor Spadafora attached to the 
email a spreadsheet of “potential parcels” of land, presumably potentially available for purchase 
by the City. While there is no specific call to action in the email, Councilor Spadafora mentions 
1) that “[t]he goal for this proposal is protection, through acquisition or Conservation 
Restrictions, of lands . . .”; 2) starting a “discussion towards ‘realistic’ and ‘attainable’ goals and 
a plan to look for a strategy that take[s] advantage of limited opportunities”; and 3) “[b]y taking 
advantage of [Community Preservation Act] funds, it is my hope that open space will continue to 
shape the character and future of Malden.”  
 
Councilor Spadafora’s second January 26 email was sent in response an email from the 
Special Assistant to the Mayor. The Special Assistant had emailed the Council and others 
explaining that Mystic Valley Elder Services would be able to provide transportation to 
vaccination sites for seniors needing rides. In response, Councilor Spadafora, copying the full 
Council and others, wrote “Great news. Certainly going to be a need.” 
 
On January 28, Councilor Spadafora responded to another email from the Special 
Assistant. The Special Assistant had emailed the full Council and others informing them that 
Housing Families, Inc. had secured state funding to open a shelter. In response, Councilor 
Spadafora, copying the full Council and others, wrote “Great work. Especially during this 
unusual time more and more families are in need of housing.” 
 
On February 21, Councilor O’Malley, as a member of the Rules and Ordinance 
Committee, emailed Councilor Spadafora, as chair of the Rules and Ordinance Committee, 
copying several individuals, none of whom serve on the Rules and Ordinance Committee or the 
Council. In the email Councilor O’Malley requested that the Malden River zoning papers be 
included on the notice for the next Rules and Ordinance Committee meeting. That same day, 
Councilor Spadafora replied to Councilor O’Malley, copying the same original recipients and 
adding Councilor Peg Crowe who also serves on the Rules and Ordinance Committee. 
Councilors O’Malley, Spadafora, and Crowe constitute a quorum of the Rules and Ordinance 
Committee. In his response to Councilor O’Malley, Councilor Spadafora explained that he could 
not include the Malden River zoning papers on the notice for the next meeting because they had 
been referred by the Council to the Rules and Ordinance Committee and the Planning Board for 
a joint meeting. Councilor Spadafora went on to explain that there were two procedural options 
available with respect to the Malden River papers, including making “a motion to rescind the 
vote to send to ordinance/ planning. Then revote to only send to ordinance to discuss. Meet in 
ordinance to craft one paper and then refer that paper to joint planning/ordinance.” Councilor 
Spadafora then explained that it was his preference to “rescind and do the work in ordinance,” 
and that he had spoken with Councilor Crowe about supporting a motion to rescind the earlier 
vote of the Council.  
 
On February 22, Councilor Crowe responded to the February 21 email exchange, copying 
the original recipients including Councilors O’Malley and Spadafora, stating “I agree with 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
rescinding the papers. I think working to have one paper that includes the best of each is a better 
paper to send to planning.”   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The purpose of the Open Meeting Law is “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Comm, of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that all meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A subcommittee of a public body is itself a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law 
defines deliberation broadly to include any “oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of 
a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). The Open Meeting Law does 
not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in 
a decision or vote. See OML 2020-93; OML 2020-160. Likewise, a one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136. 
 
I. Emails That Do Not Constitute Deliberation. 
 
We find that Councilor Spadafora’s January 26 and 28 emails responding to the Special 
Assistant to the Mayor do not constitute deliberation because they do not relate to business 
within the Council’s jurisdiction. Councilor O’Malley asserts that the emails relate to business 
within the Council’s jurisdiction because they relate to “community organizations which receive 
funding from the City of Malden through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) 
program[, and t]he application period for CDBG had recently opened on January 13 . . . .”  
Councilor Spadafora’s emails did not relate to the Community Development Block Grant or any 
other funding that falls within the Council’s jurisdiction. Instead, both emails simply stated 
support and appreciation for services that Mystic Valley Elder Services and Housing Families, 
Inc. would be able to provide to the residents of Malden. 
 
II. Emails that Constitute Deliberation Outside of a Noticed Meeting. 
 
Councilor Sica’s January 21 Email 
 
Where Councilor Sica’s January 21 email reached a quorum of the License Committee 
and clearly expressed her thoughts and opinions on a matter squarely within that committee’s 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
jurisdiction, we find that Councilor Sica violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside 
of a properly noticed meeting via email. See OML 2013-186; OML 2016-31; OML 2021-41.5  
 
Councilor Spadafora’s Green Space Resolve Email  
 
In the materials provided by the Complainant and the Council, both focus on whether the 
“resolve” mentioned in Councilor Spadafora’s January 26 green space email is a matter that falls 
within the Council’s jurisdiction as well as whether the email relates to a proposal regarding 
Fellsmere Pond and Park sponsored by Councilor Spadafora. We find that although both the 
resolve and Fellsmere Pond are mentioned in the email, and although the email relates to the 
same subject matter as the resolve— green space in the City—the email is not about either the 
resolve or the Fellsmere Pond proposal.6 Instead, we find that the email concerns Councilor 
Spadafora’s thoughts and opinions regarding the desirability of increasing green space in the 
City as well as the possibility of purchasing land and using Community Preservation Act funds 
to expand the City’s green space. We find that these matters, in general, fall within the Council’s 
broad jurisdiction as the legislative body for the City. Therefore, Councilor Spadafora’s January 
26 email constituted deliberation outside of a properly noticed meeting.  
 
We understand the Council to make two temporal arguments for why the matters 
discussed in the January 26 email were not within the Council’s jurisdiction. First, the Council 
asserts that at the time of the email the Council was not considering the sale, lease, or purchase 
of any property, nor was such a consideration anticipated for the near future. Second, with 
respect to Community Preservation Act funds, the Council asserts that any project utilizing such 
funds must first be approved by the City’s Community Preservation Committee which would 
then submit a proposed appropriation to the Council for its approval or denial, and that no 
proposed appropriation was before the Council at the time of the email. We find both argument 
unavailing.  
 
Whether to purchase land and whether to approve the appropriation of Community 
Preservation Act funds are topics squarely within the Council’s jurisdiction. That the Council 
 
5 We note that in its response, the Council explained that it initially handled Councilor DeMaria’s complaint 
internally at her request. The Council additionally explained that several remedial steps were taken in response to 
the complaint and that these steps were communicated to Councilor DeMaria. Thereafter, Councilor DeMaria 
expressed her desire to have the complaint addressed publicly. In response, the License Committee discussed the 
complaint at its March 23 meeting. The request made to our office for further review of the complaint makes no 
mention of Councilor DeMaria being dissatisfied with the remedial steps taken or with the License Committee’s 
discussion of the complaint and instead appears to be motivated by a concern that Councilor DeMaria did not 
receive an “official formal” response to the complaint. Where there is no material dispute between a public body and 
a complainant, and where the public body has taken appropriate remedial action, we strongly encourage 
complainants to consider whether further review by this office is necessary.     
6 The Council asserts that resolves “are matters on which the Council wishes to opine - not matters under the 
legislative jurisdiction or authority of the Council. In other words, procedurally, the Council utilizes Resolves for 
matters which are not in its jurisdiction to act as a legislative body,” and that specifically, the resolve mentioned in 
the email “was an opinion issued by the Council that the public bodies with jurisdiction to do so consider acquiring 
additional parkland and recreational spaces for environmental purposes.” Because we ultimately do not find the 
January 26 email to be about the resolve mentioned in the email, we make no formal determination regarding 
whether a resolve is a matter that falls within the jurisdiction of the Council; however, we do advise caution. See 
OML 2021-35.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
was not actively considering the purchase, sale, or lease of any particular property does not 
remove this topic from its jurisdiction. Likewise, that another public body must first approve a 
project before the Council may approve the appropriation of Community Preservation Act funds 
does not remove this topic from the Council’s jurisdiction. See OML 2019-119 (finding that the 
appointment of a town accountant was within the Board of Selectmen’s jurisdiction even though 
it was the town administrator who had authority to appoint the accountant, subject to the Board’s 
approval, and the administrator had not yet appointed an accountant); OML 2014-148 (“Because 
issues relating to a new restaurant opening in town could conceivably come before the Board, we 
find that this discussion was within the Board’s jurisdiction and should have taken place during 
an open meeting.”). Indeed, as we previously explained to the Council in OML 2019-140, this 
kind of temporal argument misconstrues the legal standard of deliberation, which includes “any 
public business within [the public body’s] jurisdiction,” regardless of timeframe.    
 
The Rules and Ordinance Committee Emails  
 
Although the February 21 and 22 emails exchanged among a quorum of the Rules and 
Ordinance Committee present a closer question than Councilor Spadafora’s January 26 email 
discussed above, we ultimately find that these emails also constitute deliberation outside of a 
noticed meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The Rules and Ordinance Committee 
asserts that the February 21 and 22 emails do not constitute deliberation because the emails 
concern rescinding a vote taken by the full Council and therefore do not relate to business within 
the committee’s jurisdiction. We find that Councilor Spadafora’s and Councilor Crowe’s emails 
went beyond simply discussing whether the full Council should rescind its earlier vote. The 
emails discuss options related to how the Rules and Ordinance Committee might move forward 
with respect to the Malden River zoning papers, a topic clearly within the Rules and Ordinance 
Committee’s jurisdiction.  
 
The Rules and Ordinance Committee also asserts that the emails fall within the exception 
to the definition of “deliberation” in the Open Meeting Law for the “distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. This 
exception is limited to purely administrative discussions and only applies “provided that no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. Here, both Councilor Spadafora and Councilor Crowe 
clearly expressed their opinions regarding how they wanted to handle the Malden River zoning 
papers moving forward. Although we find a violation with respect to the February 21 and 22 
emails, we do recognize that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether communication 
constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law; therefore, our office cautions public 
bodies on the use of electronic media.7 
 
III. We Find the Open Meeting Law Violations to Be Intentional. 
 
Next, we must determine if the violations found here were intentional, as both 
complainants assert. We find that they were. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
 
7 See https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. Although we acknowledge that Councilors Spadafora, Sica, and 
Crowe may have sincerely misunderstood the Open Meeting Law’s requirements with regard to 
email communication, nonetheless we previously advised the Council that similar 
communications violated the Open Meeting Law. Specifically, in OML 2019-140, issued to the 
Council on November 5, 2019, we found that former Council member John Matheson violated 
the Open Meeting Law when he sent an email to a quorum of the Council expressing his 
thoughts and opinions regarding public business within the Council’s jurisdiction. Additionally, 
in OML 2019-140, we rejected certain arguments raised by the Council that are similar to 
arguments raised in response to the two complaints at issue here, such as the assertion that 
certain matters did not fall within the Council’s jurisdiction for temporal reasons. Because we 
have previously clearly warned the Council that deliberation via email violates the Open Meeting 
Law, we find the violations here to be intentional.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council, its License Committee, and its 
Rules and Ordinance Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when, on various dates, 
Councilors Sica, Spadafora, and Crowe deliberated outside of a noticed meeting via email. 
Furthermore, we find these violations to be intentional. We order the Council and the 
Committees’ immediate and future compliance. Additionally, we order the Council and the 
Committees to, within 30 days of the date of this letter, release to the public the emails found 
here to be in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Finally, we caution the Council and the 
Committees that similar violations in the future may result in the imposition of a civil penalty of 
up to $1,000 per intentional violation.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office, the 
Council, or the Committees. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Malden City Council (via e- mail:  
Debbie DeMaria, City Councilor (via e-mail:  
Ryan O’Malley, City Councilor (via e-mail: )  
Jadeane Sica, City Councilor (via e-mail:   
Craig Spadafora, City Councilor (via e-mail:  
 Peg Crowe, City Councilor (via e-mail: )  

===PAGE 8===
8 
 
 
 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 