===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 16, 2017 
OML 2017-80 
Marc L. Terry, Chair 
Ashland School Committee Negotiation Subcommittee 
87 West Union St. 
Ashland, MA 01721 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
This office received two related complaints from Stephen Morgan alleging that the 
Ashland School Committee Negotiation Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Subcommittee on January 31, 2017, and the Subcommittee responded by letter dated February 
14, 2017. The second complaint was originally filed with the Subcommittee on February 12, 
2017, and the Subcommittee responded by letter dated March 1, 2017. Both complaints were 
then filed with our office on March 13, 2017. In his complaints, Mr. Morgan alleges that the 
Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting a meeting notice that did not 
indicate that the Subcommittee would meet in open session before convening in executive 
session; and (ii) failing to create and approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Subcommittee's 
responses, and the requests for further review filed with our office. We reviewed all 
documentation provided with these filings, including notices of Subcommittee meetings and e-
mail correspondence between the complainant and Subcommittee member Laurie Tosti. Finally, 
we spoke with the chair of the Subcommittee by telephone on April 25, 2017.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During an October 22, 2016 meeting, the Ashland School 
Committee voted to form the Subcommittee, which is comprised of two School Committee 
members. Marc Terry and Laurie Tosti. The Subcommittee was created to consider collective 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
bargaining strategy and to conduct negotiations with the bargaining union representing teachers 
in the Ashland Public Schools. 
The Subcommittee held meetings on the following dates: November 21 and December 
13, 2016; January 3, 4, 17, and 24, and February 7, 2017.2 Notice for each meeting listed "Call 
to Order" as an agenda item preceding an executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
During a meeting held on February 22, 2017, the Subcommittee approved all previous open 
session meeting minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Subcommittee's Meeting Notices Complied with the Open Meeting Law. 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include "a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id, The 
list of topics must be sufficiently detailed to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed during the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). When the only business to be discussed 
during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing 
"open session" or some other appropriate placeholder on the meeting notice is the only means by 
which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting 
that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-9.3 Without such notice, 
members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the purpose for 
the executive session. See OML 2013-195. 
Here, the Subcommittee's notices listed "Call to Order" before entering executive 
session. It was thus clear that the Subcommittee would conduct business prior to entering 
executive session. See OML 2015-135 (meeting noticed complied with the Open Meeting Law 
where it listed "Pledge of Allegiance" prior to anticipated executive session). We therefore find 
no violation with respect to this allegation. As a best practice, we recommend that public bodies 
take the additional step to identify "open session" in the meeting notice where an executive 
session occurs at the beginning of a meeting. 
II. The Subcommittee Created Minutes of its Meetings in a Timely Manner. 
A public body must create and approve minutes of all meetings in a timely manner. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a). The law does not provide a definition of "timely manner," but a public body 
should approve minutes at the next meeting where possible. See OML 2012-91. For bodies that 
meet regularly—that is, weekly or every other week—we have concluded that a delay of two to 
three months in approving minutes does not comply with the law. See OML 2016-118. 
Here, the Subcommittee created minutes of all meetings and approved them during the 
February 22, 2017 meeting.4 While the oldest minutes approved during the February 22, 2017 
2 The complaints do not identify a specific meeting notice, but the notice of the Subcommittee's January 3, 2017 
meeting was included as an example. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
w w w. m ass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
4 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Subcommittee failed to provide draft versions of the open session 
minutes at issue, we note that it appears that no request was ever made for such drafts. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meeting were approximately three months old, the Subcommittee did not meet regularly 
throughout the relevant time period. Rather, the Subcommittee met monthly in November and 
December, followed by several meetings in January. On these facts, we conclude that the 
Subcommittee approved minutes in a timely manner, and we find no violation with respect to 
this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Ashland School Committee 
Stephen Morgan 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangallaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 