===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
September 25, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 118 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
SusanMary Redinger 
Chair, Harvard School Committee 
smredinger@psharvard.org 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Redinger: 
 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on March 27, 2020, 
alleging that the Harvard School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on February 26, 
2020. The Committee did not respond to the complaint until August 19, 2020, after our office 
contacted the Committee requesting a response.
1 The complaint alleges that all of the 
Committee’s subcommittees failed to post notice for their meetings held between September 
2019 and February 2020, and that several subcommittees also failed to “file” meeting minutes.    
  
After reviewing the complaint, the request for further review, the Town of Harvard’s 
website, the Committee’s website, and after communicating with the Committee’s chair2 and 
with the Complainant, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Committee did not violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. 
 
First, the complaint alleges that none of the Committee’s subcommittees posted notice for 
meetings held between September 2019 and February 2020, although the complaint does not 
specify any particular meeting dates. The Town of Harvard’s official notice posting location is 
its municipal website, www.harvard.ma.us. A review of the Town’s website shows that 
 
1 We remind the Committee of the requirements in the Open Meeting Law that, within 14 business days after 
receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General’s Office a copy of the complaint and a description of any 
remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5); G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
subcommittees of the Committee held numerous meetings between September 2019 and 
February 2020 for which notices were timely posted.3  
 
Next, the Committee asserts that three of the groups included in the complaint, the School 
Start Time, Wellness, and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion working groups, are “Superintendent 
working groups and not subcommittees,” and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.4 The Open Meeting Law defines “public body” as any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law further defines a 
“subcommittee” as “any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a 
public body.” Id. The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exception to the Open Meeting 
Law’s definition of public body in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 
(1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official creates a group to 
advise that person on a decision that he or she has the sole authority to make, that group is not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.  
 
The Complainant alleges that the advisory groups are subcommittees of the Committee 
and therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post meeting notices or keep meeting 
minutes. In support of this contention, the Complainant points to several sets of meeting minutes 
that show the Committee appointing Committee members as “School Committee Advisors” to 
the groups and show the Committee Advisors providing updates to the Committee on the work 
of their respective groups. The meeting minutes did not show that the Committee created any of 
the groups or that the groups were specifically created to advise the Committee. 
 
The Committee explains that the groups were created by the Superintendent to advise her 
in her work, and that they operate independently of the Committee and under the 
Superintendent’s supervision. The Committee further explains that the Superintendent requested 
that the Committee appoint Committee Advisors to each group and that she frequently asked the 
Committee Advisors to provide updates on the work of their groups during Committee meetings.  
We credit the Committee’s explanation and find that the Superintendent created the working 
groups of her own volition.5 Because the working groups were created by an individual public 
official to advise her on decisions that she retained the sole authority to make, we find that they 
fall within the Connelly exception and are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Compare OML 2015-93 and OML 2014-56 (finding that where the mayor created a committee 
of his own volition, it reported its recommendations to him directly, and the mayor then chose to 
 
3 Our review found that many of the meeting notices were sparse. We remind the Committee and its subcommittees 
that meeting notices must include a list of topics reasonably anticipated to be discussed with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). 
4 In its initial response, the Committee asserted that the Superintendent Evaluation group was also a superintendent’s 
working group and not a subcommittee. In subsequent communications the Chair clarified that the Superintendent 
Evaluation group was in fact a subcommittee of the Committee, but that it did not hold any meetings between 
September 2019 and February 2020.  
5 Although we find that the groups are not subcommittees of the Committee, we note that in the Committee’s 
meeting minutes these groups are frequently referred to as subcommittees or committees and note that this creates 
the impression that these groups are subcommittees of the Committee.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
forward those recommendations to the city council, the committee fell within the Connelly 
exception because neither the mayor nor the committee was required to present those 
recommendations to the council) with OML 2018-131 (finding that a working group created by 
the Harvard School Building Committee was a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law) 
and OML 2017-36 (finding that a task force created at the suggestion of the superintendent, and 
whose members were appointed by the superintendent, was nonetheless a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law where the school committee voted to create the task force).6  
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that several of the subcommittees did not “file” meeting 
minutes. Based on subsequent communications with the Complainant, we understand the 
complaint to allege that several subcommittees did not, in general, create and approve meeting 
minutes and that meeting minutes were not posted to a website. The complaint does not, 
however, identify any particular meetings for which minutes were not created and approved.  
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML Declination 3-20-12 
(Wilmington Board of Assessors). Additionally, the Open Meeting Law does not require that 
meeting minutes be posted to a website, only that minutes be created and approved in a timely 
manner,7 and that they be made available upon request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Nonetheless, 
based on information provided by the Committee and a review of the Harvard Public Schools’ 
website, we find that the subcommittees did create and post minutes for many meetings. 
Therefore, we find no violation with respect to these allegations. Although we do not find a 
violation, we remind the Committee and its subcommittees of their obligation to create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings that include a summary of the discussions held on each 
topic with enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a); OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-106.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee and its subcommittees did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination 
to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
7 The Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General's Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 C.M.R. 29.11 (2). 

===PAGE 4===
4 
  
 
 
cc: Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe (via e-mail:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
