===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 30, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 262 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jason R. Talerman, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
jay@mtclawyers.com 
     
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Talerman:  
 
On October 29, 2024, this office received a complaint from Elaine Gibbs, alleging that 
the Chatham Affordable Housing Trust Fund Board of Trustees (the “AHT Board”)
1 violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the AHT 
Board on August 16.2  You responded on behalf of the AHT Board by letter dated August 22.  
The complainant alleges that notice of the AHT Board’s August 7 meeting was not sufficiently 
specific, as it did not include a discussion and vote to request that the Select Board designate the 
AHT Board to manage a request for proposals to develop two properties.
3     
 
Following our review, we find that the AHT Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
 
1 The AHT Board is referenced as the Affordable Housing Trust in the complaint.  Additionally, during its meeting, 
members of the AHT Board at times referred to it as the “AHT.” 
2 Next to the signature line of the complaint is handwritten “7/16/24.”  However, the AHT Board acknowledges 
receipt on August 16.  Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
3 The description of the alleged violation states that the violation occurred on “9/07/24.”  However, the first page of 
the complaint form identifies the date of alleged violation as August 7.  The AHT Board’s response assumes that the 
complaint concerns the meeting of August 7, as do we.  Additionally, in response to concerns raised by the 
complainant, we note that a public body may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review an Open Meeting 
Law complaint against the public body.  See OML 2024-204; OML 2019-170; OML 2011-6.  Finally, to the extent 
that the complainant alleges that there was improper communication among members of the AHT Board in 
preparation of a response to her Open Meeting Law complaint, those allegations will not be reviewed here, as they 
would more appropriately be raised in a new complaint. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and minutes of the AHT Board’s August 7 meeting and viewed a recording of that meeting.4  We 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the August 6 meeting of the Chatham Select Board, as well 
as a staff report which Housing and Sustainability Director Gloria McPherson submitted to the 
Select Board in advance of its August 6 meeting.  We viewed a recording of the August 6 Select 
Board meeting.5  Finally, we reviewed emails received from the complainant on November 13 
and December 3, and communicated with you via email. 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  Th e Chatham Select Board met on August 6.  Notice of the 
August 6 Select Board meeting included as a topic “127 Old Harbor Road Property Update – 
Housing and Sustainability Director Gloria McPherson.”  In anticipation of the August 6 
meeting, Director McPherson submitted a staff report to the Select Board.  In the report, dated 
July 30, she noted that in June 2023, $50,000 was allocated to conduct a feasibility study of 127 
Old Harbor Road for attainable and / or affordable housing.  Director McPherson sought clarity 
from the Select Board on the scope of this feasibility study.  She also indicated that to 
appropriately scope a request for proposals (“RFP”), it would be necessary to first determine 
how many housing units should be built on the property.  Nothing within Director McPherson’s 
report suggested that the AHT Board should have a role in the RFP process for 127 Old Harbor 
Road.   
 
The Select Board discussed development of the 127 Harbor Road property for 
approximately 40 minutes.  Director McPherson began the discussion with an explanation of 
how the RFP will be impacted by the number of housing units that will be developed at 127 
Harbor Road.  Members of the Select Board shared their thoughts as to their preferred number of 
units, the goal of home ownership, and the income levels to which the new housing units should 
be allocated. 
 
 Approximately 15 minutes into the discussion, in response to a question from Select 
Board member Dean Nicastro, Director McPherson stated that the town could dictate the number 
of units and issue an RFP that requires the applicant (not the town) to perform the required due 
diligence.  This approach would eliminate the need for the town to perform the feasibility study, 
saving the town $50,000.  The discussion was then opened to members of the public.  David 
Oppenheim, who is a member of the AHT Board but not the Select Board, dismissed the 
feasibility study as “foolishness.”  He advocated in favor of issuing an RFP directly.  He stated 
that this approach on the last development attracted some creative proposals.  Mr. Oppenheim 
recommended that the Select Board defer further discussion on the matter until the AHT 
provided its feedback.  As the discussion continued, several Select Board members echoed Mr. 
Oppenheim’s argument that the feasibility study was not a good use of resources.  The Select 
Board also discussed what body should oversee the RFP.  Member Nicastro was reluctant to 
defer to the AHT Board.  He felt that the Select Board should retain the responsibility to decide 
the number of units and to issue the RFP.  Select Board member Shareen Davis stated that she 
 
4 We accessed a recording of the meeting at https://play.champds.com/chathamma/event/1872.   
5 We accessed a recording of the meeting at https://play.champds.com/chathamma/event/1868. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
respected the AHT Board for its knowledge of housing.  There was “no reason” not to ask for 
input from the AHT Board while still retaining ultimate control, according to member Davis. 
 
 At the conclusion of  the discussion, Chair Schell proposed that the Select Board do 
nothing at that time.  He recognized it was a “minefield” but agreed that it would be appropriate 
to seek input from the AHT Board.  The Select Board was free to disregard the AHT Board’s 
advice but “there is some expertise there that we don’t have.”   
 
On July 18, the AHT Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on August 7.6  The 
notice included the following topic of discussion: 
 
6.  Pro
ject Status Updates: 
a. Main Street and Meetinghouse Road 
b. 127 Old Harbor Road 
c. Housing Production Plan 
d. Stepping Stones Road 
e. Land Acquisition RFP 
 
Approximately 22 minutes into the August 7 meeting, the AHT Board reached the topics 
of 127 Old Harbor Road and Stepping Stones Road, which were discussed together.  Director 
Gloria McPherson addressed the AHT Board as she had on other items of discussion.  She 
explained that at its meeting the evening before, the Select Board discussed issuing an RFP to 
gauge developers’ interest in these two properties, in lieu of a feasibility study.  
 
Following Director McPherson’s remarks, the AHT Board discussed the two properties 
and the issuance of an RFP for over 30 minutes.  Member Oppenheim noted that the Select 
Board controlled the two properties under discussion.  To streamline the process, and to make 
the most of the AHT Board’s expertise, he argued that the AHT Board should oversee issuance 
of the RFP.  To that end, he suggested that the AHT Board ask the Select Board to designate it to 
take on this responsibility.  The AHT Board continued to discuss particulars of development of 
the properties, including housing density, funding and a timeline.  A formal motion was made to 
petition the Select Board to designate the AHT Board to manage the RFP process.  Following 
further discussion, the motion passed. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
 
6 The notice was amended on August 5; the amendments are not material to the allegations of the complaint.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.7  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Topics that were not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting may be 
considered by the public body, even if they were not listed in the meeting notice.  See OML 
2018-119; OML 2013-61; OML 2011-36.  Although public bodies may discuss a truly 
unanticipated topic that is not included on the meeting notice, the Attorney General strongly 
recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of unanticipated 
topics that might be of significant interest to the public so that the topics can be included on the 
notice for a future meeting.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2018-119; OML 2013-87.   
 
When a public body plans to discuss a specific piece of property, notice of the meeting 
should include sufficient information to identify the property, either by listing the address, 
bordering streets, intersections or landmarks.  See OML 2024-11; OML 2019-105; OML 2010-2.  
Even a meeting notice that does include a property address may be found to run afoul of the 
Open Meeting Law if it is otherwise insufficiently specific.  See, e.g., OML 2023-238 (notice 
topic “10 Pleasant Street Change Order” insufficiently specific to inform public of anticipated 
vote to approve change order to demolition project at 10 Pleasant Street to cover cost of 
removing asbestos); OML 2023-182 (planning board’s notice topic insufficiently specific when 
it listed property address but “failed to include any detail as to the specific type of plan or permit 
under consideration with respect to this property”). 
 
Elaine Gibbs complains that notice of the August 7 meeting should have included the 
motion and discussion relative to petitioning the Select Board to designate the AHT Board as 
manager of the RFP process.  We find, under the circumstances present here, that the AHT 
Board’s notice that it would discuss “Project Status Updates” regarding “127 Old Harbor Road” 
and “Stepping Stones Road” satisfied the Open Meeting Law.  Both properties were identified by 
address, or at least by street name.  More importantly, based upon the information available to 
us, we find that the substance of the subject updates was unknown 48 hours prior to the meeting.  
The status update provided by Director McPherson, as well as the discussion and vote of which 
Ms. Gibbs complains, stemmed from a discussion that had occurred the day before at the Select 
Board meeting.  The Law does not require the chair to guess what will occur at a meeting or 
anticipate the course of deliberations.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2020-55; OML 2018-134.  The 
course of the AHT Board’s deliberations were largely governed by the discussion at the August 6 
Select Board meeting, less than 48 hours before the AHT Board meeting.  As the Select Board 
meeting occurred less than 48 hours prior to the AHT Board meeting of August 7, a discussion 
and vote regarding AHT Board oversight of an RFP could not reasonably have been anticipated 
at the time of posting notice for that meeting.  As the complainant notes, where a topic arises less 
than 48 hours prior to a meeting, we generally encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of 
that topic until the topic may be included in a meeting notice.  See OML 2024-75; 2013-197; 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
OML 2011-23.  Even assuming, however, that the public would have been better served by 
postponement of this topic, the AHT Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by proceeding 
with the discussion.8   
 
As to the complainant’s allegation that the AHT Board made “disparaging comments,” 
any criticism levied against the Select Board during the August 7 AHT Board meeting grew out 
of deliberations about the “Project Status Updates” and did not require separate mention on the 
notice of the August 7 meeting.  
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the AHT Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the AHT Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew
 Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
   
 
 
cc: Elaine Gibbs (via email: )   
 Chatham Town Clerk (via email:  jsmith@chatham-ma.gov) 
 Chatham Town Manager (via email: jgoldsmith@chatham-ma.gov) 
 Chatham Housing and Sustainability Director (via email: gmcpherson@chatham-ma.gov) 
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
8 We commend the AHT Board for revisiting the topic at its August 21 meeting, with detailed description of the 
topic in the notice. 
