===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
February 2, 2022 
 
OML 2022 - 18 
 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This determination addresses two complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  Over the past 16 months, Mr. Fitzgerald has filed more than 130 separate Open 
Meeting Law complaints with public bodies in Everett.  The complaints addressed herein are 
those dated November 15, 2021, and November 23, 2021.1 2  These complaints allege that the 
Committee posted the notices for two of its meetings to the website https://cityofeverett.com, and 
not to the website http://www.ci.everett.ma.us.3  In subsequent correspondence with our office, 
Mr. Fitzgerald stated that, for some period of time, the City of Everett had “2 official websites.” 
We understand the complaint to allege that although prior meeting notices had been posted to the 
www.ci.everett.ma.us website, the notices of the Committee’s November 1 and November 15 
meetings were posted only to the cityofeverett.com website. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination we reviewed the complaints, the Committee’s responses to the 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett School Committee and other 
public bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints 
for tracking purposes. This determination addresses complaints 80 and 81. 
3 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office. The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office’s 
consideration of the complaints.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaints, and the requests for further reviewed.  We also reviewed historical records 
maintained by the Division of Open Government, and communicated with Mr. Fitzgerald by 
email. 
 
FACTS 
 
On September 27, 2018, Dolores Lattanzi, the Executive Manager in the Office of Everett 
Mayor Carlo DeMaria, sent to the Attorney General’s Division of Open Government, via email, 
a letter signed by Mayor DeMaria stating, “Please accept this as notice that in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), I, as the Chief Executive Officer of the City of Everett, hereby authorizes 
the municipal website as the official method of posting meeting notices.”  On October 1, 2018, 
the Division of Open Government responded via email, “Thank you for your letter.  Could you 
please provide the web address where Everett will be posting its notices?”  Ms. Lattanzi 
responded on October 1, 2018, that the website address where Everett would be posting its 
notices was Cityofeverett.com.  By letter dated October 1, the Division of Open Government 
confirmed receipt of the notification that the City of Everett had adopted an alternative meeting 
notice posting method, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(2).  The Division of Open 
Government also updated its publicly available spreadsheet listing the official notice posting 
method for each municipality in the Commonwealth4 to reflect that as of September 27, 2018, 
the City of Everett’s official notice posting method was the website Cityofeverett.com. 
 
Mr. Fitzgerald filed the two Open Meeting Law complaints addressed herein with the 
Committee on or around November 15 and November 23, respectively.  On November 22, the 
Committee forwarded the November 15 complaint to the Division of Open Government, and 
requested a four-day extension of time to respond to the complaint.  The Division’s Director 
responded to the Committee and to Mr. Fitzgerald; granted the requested extension; and notified 
Mr. Fitzgerald, “please be aware that the website our office has on file for posting meeting 
notices in Everett is Cityofeverett.com. This was last updated in our records in 2018. Your 
complaint asserts that this is, in fact, the website where the agenda for the Committee’s 
November 15 meeting was posted. Therefore, there appears to be no merit to the complaint, and I 
encourage you to withdraw the complaint.”   
 
Mr. Fitzgerald responded that he would not withdraw the complaint and in fact had just 
filed a second complaint (the November 23 complaint).  The Division’s Director responded, “For 
purposes of reviewing for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we will review only whether 
the notices for the meetings in question were posted to the official notice posting location. Each 
municipality may have only one official notice posting location for Open Meeting Law purposes, 
even though it may choose to post some or all notices to other websites as well. In Everett, the 
official notice posting method is the cityofeverett.com website. The notices for both November 1 
and November 15 are posted to that website.” 
 
 Mr. Fitzgerald subsequently pursued both complaints with the Division of Open 
Government. 
 
 
4 The spreadsheet is regularly updated and is available on the Attorney General’s website at 
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/official-notice-posting-locations-for-public-bodies. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal 
clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the 
municipal building in which the clerk's office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  Alternatively, a 
municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting location for all public 
bodies within the municipality.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).   
 
A municipality may only have one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its 
website as its notice posting location, then that is the official location for purposes of complying 
with the Open Meeting Law.  See  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c).  Although public bodies are 
welcome to post notice of their meetings in additional locations if they choose, we look only to 
the official notice posting location to determine whether a public body has complied with the 
Law. See OML 2021-94; OML 2021-18; OML 2020-20; OML 2017-134. 
 
 Here, the City of Everett adopted its municipal website, Cityofeverett.com, as its official 
notice posting location, and notified the Attorney General’s Office that it had done so, in 
September 2018. The complaints allege that the notices for both the November 1 and November 
15 meetings were posted to that website, but were not also posted to www.ci.everett.ma.us, 
where prior meeting notices could be found.  Regardless of whether previous meeting notices 
had been posted to both websites, the Committee was under no obligation to post its meeting 
notices anywhere other than the official notice posting location.  See OML 2022-6.  Therefore, 
we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 Furthermore, Mr. Fitzgerald’s decision to pursue both of the complaints—his 80th and 
81st complaints filed in a year—after he was expressly informed by the Division of Open 
Government that his complaints were meritless and was asked to withdraw them, required both 
the Committee and this office to devote time and resources to addressing the meritless 
complaints, and suggests that the complaints, like others filed previously, were not filed out of a 
good faith desire to advance the Open Meeting Law’s transparency goals.  See, e.g., OML 2021-
162.   
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
 
Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail: ) 
 Frank Parker, Chair, Everett School Committee (via e-mail: ) 
 Priya Tahiliani, Superintendent, Everett Public Schools (via e-mail: 
) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
