===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 10,2019 
OML 2019-69
Paul B. Kitchen 
Chairman
Bristol County Commissioners 
P.O. Box 208 
Taunton, MA 02780
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Chairman Kitchen:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 22, 2019, alleging that 
the Bristol County Commissioners (“the Commissioners”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commissioners on February 20 
and the Commissioners responded by letter dated March 12.1 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Commissioners violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
detailed meeting notice for their January 31 meeting. Specifically, Mr. Higgins alleges that three 
items on the posted meeting agenda were insufficiently detailed: “Employment Matters,” 
“Review and approve Payroll/AP Warrants,” and three separate surety bonds.
Following our review, we find that the Commissioners violated the Open Meeting Law 
by providing insufficient detail as to the “Employment Matters” agenda item, only. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commissioners’ reply, and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of the Commissioners’ 
January 31 meeting notice and communicated with Chairman Kitchen by telephone on May 21.2
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commissioners posted timely notice for the January 31 
meeting. The notice listed, among other topics, “Employment Matters.” No further information 
was listed about what the Chairman anticipated with regards to what types of employment 
matters would be discussed. We understand from the Chairman that “Employment Matters” is a 
regularly recurring agenda item that consists of approving “Certified Payroll” forms. These
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 All parties are discussed in the third person for clarity.
o

===PAGE 2===
forms are used by the Commissioners to approve changes in employment status of County 
employees (e.g. retirements or medical leaves) and to approve final candidates who have been 
through the hiring processes of County agencies. Requests are brought to the Commissioners by 
County agencies (e.g. the Bristol County Agricultural High School). Each such request includes, 
if appropriate, an identified funding source and a candidate for the position. The Commissioners 
typically receive a packet which includes details of these requests on Friday before their Tuesday 
evening meetings.
The notice also listed “Review and approve Payroll/AP Warrants” as an agenda item.
We understand from the Chairman that this is also a regular agenda item at the Commissioners’ 
meetings. For this item, the Commissioners routinely approve employee payroll and vendor 
payments at each meeting. Theses approvals are administrative in nature and the exact vendors 
to be paid and financial amounts in question are not determined until a few hours before the 
Commissioners’ meeting.
Finally, the complaint mentions the notice items related to three surety bonds. The 
agenda contained these items: “Surety Bond-County Treasurer,” “Surety Bond-Frederick M. 
Kalisz,” and “Surety Bond - John Collias Assistant Register of Deeds.”
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” Id. The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).
Here, the complaint alleges that the January 31 meeting notice does not contain enough 
detail regarding three different items (“Employment Matters,” “Review and approve Payroll/AP 
Warrants,” and three surety bonds). We agree that the meeting notice is insufficiently detailed 
with respect to “Employment Matters.” A topic of “Employment Matters” is too broad to give a 
member of the public a reasonable understanding of what the public body will address. This 
item needs further definition as to the types of matters that will be discussed. Even if the chair 
does not know until shortly before the meeting exactly which employment positions will need to 
be reviewed and for what action, the notice nonetheless should include a more detailed 
description of the type of action that this topic contemplates. For example, the meeting notice 
could state “Review and approve personnel matters, including new hires, retirements, medical 
leaves, and/or other changes to personnel classification for county agency employees.”
With respect to “Review and approve Payroll/AP Warrants,” we find that the notice was 
sufficiently detailed. Payroll and warrant approval (i.e., approving the payment of expenses) are 
standard administrative tasks that municipal and county governments engage in. The routine, 
administrative nature of this item leads us to conclude that the present description is sufficiently 
detailed to reasonably inform the public of what will occur at the meeting. Furthermore, because 
the exact financial amounts in question are only determined a few hours before the 
Commissioners’ meeting the public meeting, they are not reasonably anticipated by the
2

===PAGE 3===
Chairman 48 hours in advance and are therefore not required to be included in the meeting 
notice. See OML 2018-46.
Finally, regarding the three surety bonds, we find that listing an official’s name or title 
with reference to each bond was sufficient to inform the public about the discussion that would 
take place. By listing each bond separately in this way, the notice adequately informs the public 
of the bonds to be considered. Therefore, we conclude that these items were sufficiently 
detailed.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commissioners violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting a meeting notice that contained insufficient detail regarding the “Employment 
Matters” topic, only. We order the Commissioners’ immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commissioners. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
