===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 19, 2016 
OML 2016-5 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin, dated October 21, 2015, alleging 
that the Carver Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 10, 2015, and, after an 
extension of time was granted, the Board responded by letter dated October 19, 2015. In his 
complaint, Mr. Belbin alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) providing 
insufficient information on a meeting notice regarding an anticipated executive session; and (ii) 
entering executive session for an improper purpose. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient information about an anticipated executive session. We also find that the 
Board failed to indicate on its meeting notice that it would convene in open session prior to 
executive session. However, we find that the executive session at issue was held for a proper 
purpose. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; 
and the request for flirther review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice for a Board 
meeting held on September 1, as well as the minutes of an executive session also held on that 
date. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on November 6, 2015 and 
January 8, 2016.1 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
September 1, 2015. The notice listed just one anticipated topic: an executive session. The notice 
stated, in its entirety, the following: "Move to go into Executive Session to discuss strategy with 
respect to Southern Sky Renewable Energy that may have a financial impact on the Town's 
FACTS 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
ability to negotiate a PILOT as authorized by Town Meeting that may have a detrimental effect 
on the bargaining position of the [T]own if held in open session, and to reconvene in open 
session for purpose of adjournment- discussion and vote possible." 
During the September 1, 2015 meeting, the Board voted unanimously to enter executive 
session. In this executive session, the Board met with the Town Administrator, who had been in 
negotiations with Southern Sky Renewable Energy to settle terms for a Payment in Lieu of Taxes 
("PILOT") agreement concerning a parcel of land owned by the Town. The Town Administrator 
reported on the progress of those negotiations and stated that the Board's decisions on a certain 
pending item would affect the Town's negotiating position with Southern Sky. Specifically, the 
negotiations concerned a portion of a Town-owned parcel that the Town would lease to Southern 
Sky on which Southern Sky would install solar panels. At the time, it was uncertain what 
portion of the parcel would be used for solar panels. Because it was unsettled at the time what 
portion of the parcel would be used for the solar panels, it was unclear how many solar panels 
could be accommodated and, therefore, how much revenue the Town could collect from the 
lease. After being advised by the Town Administrator, the Board then discussed the parcel at 
issue, ultimately taking no action on it. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a "listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list 
topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); District Attornev for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wavland. 
455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the 
public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public 
would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
"consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). When noticing an executive session pursuant to Purpose 
6, a public body must identify the property to be discussed if doing so would not compromise the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See OML 2014-136; OML 2013-97. 
The complaint alleges that the Board provided insufficient information on the meeting 
notice regarding the anticipated executive session discussion. When planning to discuss a 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
specific piece of property, public bodies should include sufficient information in the meeting 
notice to identify the property. See OML 2010-2. A specific address is always preferable; 
however, the public body may also list bordering streets, intersections, landmarks, or other 
identifying information. Id. Here, the meeting notice did not identify the property to be 
discussed. While size and boundaries of the area at issue were in flux at the time, the meeting 
notice nonetheless should have included some description of the parcel being discussed. See 
OML 2012-52. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by omitting such a description. Id. 
We also find that the description on the meeting notice was flawed in other respects. The 
notice did not clearly indicate which executive session puipose the Board intended to rely on in 
order to discuss the PILOT agreement. See OML 2015-126. Furthermore, the Attorney 
General's Office discourages public bodies from using abbreviations or acronyms in meeting 
notices if they are not commonly understood. See OML 2014-116; OML 2013-46. Here, we 
find that the acronym "PILOT" is not one that members of the public are likely to understand. 
Cf. OML 2015-172 (concluding that "FAA" is a widely understood acronym). The failure to 
specify the statutory purpose and the use of an unfamiliar acronym also violated the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complaint also alleges that the discussion concerning the negotiations with Southern 
Sky was inappropriate for executive session. The discussion at issue concerned the lease of real 
property and we credit the Board's belief that holding the discussion in public would affect the 
Town's negotiating position with respect to that property. We have stated in the past that a 
public body may enter a Purpose 6 executive session to discuss negotiations concerning the 
purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property being conducted by a third party. See OML 
2013-110 (City Council did not violate Open Meeting Law by entering executive session to 
discuss real estate negotiations being conducted by the Mayor). Here, while the negotiations 
were being conducted by the Town Administrator on behalf of the Town, the Board's actions 
would affect the Town's negotiating position. Specifically, the Board's decision regarding the 
size and dimensions of the parcel at issue would determine how much revenue the Town would 
receive from the lease. We therefore conclude that the discussion at issue fit within the 
parameters of Purpose 6 and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding this 
discussion in executive session. 
As a final matter, we note that, when the only business to be discussed during an open 
session the procedural requirements for entering executive session, the public body must list 
"open session" on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public 
are informed that the public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to 
attend. See OML 2015-110. The Board's failure to do so here also violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because 
the Board failed to follow proper procedure in convening its September 1, 2015 executive 
session, the Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to 
withhold the minutes of that executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (minutes of an 
3 
===PAGE 4===
executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held 
in compliance with the Open Meeting Law). However, attorney-client privilege or one or more 
exemptions under the Public Records Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or any 
portion thereof, from disclosure. Id. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Belbin 
Carver Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 