===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 12,2018 
OML 2018-102 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Ross Donald, dated May 29, alleging that the 
Needham Housing Authority (the "NHA") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the NHA on March 15, and, after an extension of 
time was granted by our office, the NHA responded by letter dated April 9. In his complaint, 
Mr. Donald alleges that the NHA violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its 
February 27 meeting at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the NHA violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the NHA's 
response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed an e-mail from the NHA's legal 
counsel dated June 11, and we reviewed the minutes of the NHA's February 27 and April 19 
meetings.3 
We find the facts as follows. On February 23, the NHA posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on February 26. At 9:00 A.M. on February 26, due to what the NHA describes as "an 
unforeseen scheduling conflict," the NHA postponed the meeting to February 27, and posted 
notice of this change with the town clerk. The NHA then held the meeting on February 27, 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 The request for further review also alleges that the NHA retaliated against Mr. Donald's Open Meeting Law 
complaint by initiating lease termination proceedings. This allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
during which the NHA heard a progress report outlining potential redevelopment or 
modernization of NHA properties. 
Following receipt of the present complaint, the Board discussed again at its April 19 
meeting the matters discussed during the February 27 meeting. Specifically, the Board repeated 
the discussion concerning a status update on redevelopment or modernization of the NHA 
properties. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[ejxcept in an emergency... a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Where a discussion is continued or delayed, 
the body must post notice 48 hours in advance of the new meeting. See OML 2013-72.4 
Here, the complaint alleges that the NHA failed to post notice for the required amount of 
time prior to the February 27 meeting. Indeed, we conclude that the NHA violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to post notice of the rescheduled meeting 48 hours in advance. The fact 
that the NHA posted the original meeting notice with sufficient time does not relieve the NHA of 
the requirement to post notice in at least 48 hours prior to the rescheduled meeting. See id. The 
Board should have rescheduled the meeting to a date and time that complied with the Open 
Meeting Law's time requirement for posting notice. 
We acknowledge the remedial action taken by the Board during the April 19 meeting. At 
that meeting, the Board brought up the primary issue discussed at the February 27 meeting, the 
progress report on NHA redevelopment, and appeared to discuss it in depth, with all 
commissioners participating in the discussion. We commend the Board for taking this remedial 
action in response to this complaint. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the NHA violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice of its February 27 meeting at least 48 hours in advance. We order the 
Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
NHA. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ross Donald 
Needham Housing Authority 
This determination was issued pursuant to GX. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney Genera! may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 