===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 3, 2011 
OML 2011 - 1 
Steven J. Correia 
Chairman 
Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA . 01778 
Dear Mr. Correia, 
Our office has reviewed a complaint by Mr. George Harris dated September 20, 2010 
alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25 by the Wayland Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board convened on July 
26, 2010, and while meeting in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, the 
Board approved a traffic safety certification— a decision which should have been conducted in 
open session. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law provides for a public body to enter into a closed executive 
session for one of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. When a public body enters 
executive session for one of these purposes, it must only discuss matters directly related to that 
purpose, and cannot deliberate upon any matters that fall outside of that purpose. See District 
Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of Sunderland,  11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 
(1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters other than 
those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was called). 
On July 26, 2010, the Board entered executive session, according to the meeting minutes, 
to "discuss strategy with respect to pending litigationbecause an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigation position of the Town. The Chair declared that the subject 
matter of the meeting was Twenty Wayland, LLC v. Wayland Historic District Commission and 
Town of Wayland v BSC." The minutes of the executive session have since been released by the 
Board and are now public. The executive session minutes state that: 
[Town Administrator] F. Turkington reviewed a proposed revised certificate declaring a 
public safety hazardous condition at the Route 126/27 intersection resulting from any 
construction at the Town Center site. Twenty Wayland has requested revised language to 
clarify any dispute over the scope of work necessitating improvements, and that all 
===PAGE 2===
changes are needed, not just the signal, to support a motion for summary judgment. 
Board members suggested language to be reviewed by Kevin Dandrade and counsel, but 
it was the consensus of the Board to concur with the letter and its submission to Twenty 
Wayland. 
• 	 Following this executive session, a document was issued entitled "Certification." The 
document was signed by Police Chief Robert Irving, Fire Chief Robert Loomer and Board Chair 
Steven Correia, who signed "on behalf of the Board of Selectmen, the designated traffic 
commission of the town," The certification is dated August 4, 2010. According to Mr. Harris, 
the certification was not revealed to the public until it was disclosed at a meeting of the Historic 
District Commission on September 1, 2010. The Certification states, in part: 
The certification is a restatement of the certification expressed by letter dated January 
[5], 2009. In that letter, the Board of Selectmen clearly and unambiguously stated "that 
the proposed schedule of infrastructure improvements is necessary for public safety in 
accordance with Sec. 196-107.5 of the historic district by-law. We determined that 
alterations and construction of structures within the road layout within the Historic 
District are necessary for public safety due to the dangerous conditions that will result 
from Town Center project-generated traffic if the improvements are not made." 
Based on these facts, we conclude that the Board entered executive session under purpose 
3 to consider litigation strategy. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The Board then engaged in a 
discussion regarding a proposed traffic safety certification, which the Board contends was a 
restatement of a previously issued letter dated January 5, 2009. In a letter to our office dated 
October 19, 2010, Town Administrator Frederic Turkington explained that the discussion "was 
limited to the strategic decision of whether to issue the certification in a different format as 
requested by the parties in the matter Twenty Wayland, LLC v. Town of Wayland Historic 
District Commission." 
This was a proper discussion for executive session as it related to a request raised by a 
party to the litigation. However, once the Board determined that issuing the traffic certification 
would benefit their litigation position, the Board was required to reconvene in open session to 
discuss and approve the certification itself If the Board could not separate its discussion and 
approval of the traffic certification from its litigation strategy, then it should have approved the 
traffic certification in executive session and then immediately reconvened in open session and 
announced the vote to the public and recorded its approval in the minutes of the open session. 
The Board contends in an October 29, 2010 letter to our office that the traffic certification 
was an administrative act, because."the traffic certification is a restatement of the same 
information contained in the letter sent on behalf of the Board of Selectmen dated January 5, 
2009 in a certificate format." (emphasis in original). However, issuing the certification was not 
merely an administrative act, because it required the Board's consent as Wayland's traffic 
authority to authorize the chair to sign a formal certification, something the town administrator 
could not do without the Both-d's consent. Moreover, the public should have been made aware of 
the certification when it was authorized, and not weeks later. 
Additionally, Mr. Harris notes in his December 3, 2010 letter to our office that the 
executive session minutes of the July 26, 2010 state that "it was the consensus of the Board to 
concur with the letter and its submission to Twenty Wayland." The Open Meeting Law requires 
===PAGE 3===
that, lalny vote taken at an executive session shall be recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b), While a Board may record an informal vote in open session as a 
"consensus", this is not sufficient for executive session, where the public is not a witness to the 
action taken by the Board. Here, the Board's "consensus" reflects a decision of the collective 
body as the traffic authority of Wayland to authorize the traffic certification document. This 
should have been recorded as a roll call vote. 
We order the Board to comply with the Open Meeting Law, with particular attention to 
keeping executive session discussions and decisions limited to the narrow purposes for executive 
session. Similar futare violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Typically, we would also order the release of the executive session minutes 
pertaining to the traffic certification discussion. However, the Board has already released the 
minutes from the relevant July 26, 2010 executive session. We decline to take the additional 
remedial action requested by the complainant, nullifying the traffic certification and requiring it 
to be re-issued. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. This letter does not 
resolve any other complaints which may have been filed with our office or the Board. Please 
contact me if you have any questions. 
Sincerel; 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel 