===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 20, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 134 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
Legal Counsel, Fall River School Committee 
baalawfirm@aol.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 3,
1 alleging that the Fall 
River School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 3, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 26. The complaint alleges that, with 
respect to the Committee’s June 2 meeting, (1) the Chair of the Committee did not allow a 
Committee member to discuss an unanticipated topic; and (2) the Committee convened in 
executive session for an improper purpose.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the Committee’s June 2 
meeting, and a video recording of the June 2 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On May 29, the Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on June 2. The notice included, among other topics, the following executive 
session topic: “M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)(3) and Section 21(a)(7): To discuss a pending 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The video recording of the June 2 meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2HOCaCNI2w. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Settlement Agreement, and in order to discuss strategy with respect to litigation and comply with 
student records law.”3 
 
The June 2 meeting was held as scheduled. During the meeting, Committee member 
Collin Dias attempted to discuss a recently published news article concerning a ransomware 
attack within the school district. Mayor Coogan, as chair, declined to take up the topic because 
the topic had not been included on the meeting notice.  
 
Later in the meeting, Mayor Coogan announced a request for executive session and a 
motion to enter executive session was made and seconded. Thereafter, the Committee’s legal 
counsel
4 read aloud ten separate reasons for convening in executive session, including “to 
discuss a pending Settlement Agreement, and in order to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation and comply with student records law.” Thereafter, discussion ensued in open session 
regarding the reason for the reference to “student records law” with respect to that particular 
executive session topic. No one was able to speak to exactly why the language had been included 
on the meeting notice as the notice had been drafted by different legal counsel who was not 
present at the meeting at that time. However, it was explained that the purpose of the executive 
session was to discuss a settlement agreement, not any specific student records, and that any 
discussion of student records would be incidental to the discussion of the settlement agreement. 
Legal counsel surmised that the language may have been included simply as a reminder to the 
Committee of its obligation to comply with laws protecting student records. A motion was made 
to strike the reference to “student records law” from the announcement, but this motion failed. 
Thereafter, the Committee voted in favor of convening in executive session and then entered 
executive session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). All meetings of a public body must be conducted in open 
session unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one or more of ten permissible 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Among the ten purposes are Purpose 3, “[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares”; and Purpose 7, “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grand-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3), (7). 
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require a chair to take up topics proposed by public 
body mem
bers; however, we do encourage chairs to be responsive to issues raised by members 
of the public body. See OML Declination 4-2-2024 (Massachusetts State Rehabilitation 
Council); OML 2024-127.5 Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law gives the chair of a public body 
clear authority to conduct the body’s meetings as “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
 
3 The notice for the June 2 meeting was later amended; however, no change was made to this notice topic.  
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” 
G.L. c
. 30A, § 20(g). Finally, although a public body may discuss a topic not included on the 
meeting notice if that topic was truly unanticipated, we have consistently encouraged public 
bodies to postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics not listed on a meeting notice if 
those topics can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2016-78; OML 2013-87; OML 2013-
13.  
 
The c
omplaint alleges that Mayor Coogan violated the Opening Meeting Law by not 
allowing Committee member Collin Dias to raise the topic of a ransomware attack within the 
school district, a topic that had not been included on the meeting notice. We find that Mayor 
Coogan did not violate the Open Meeting Law where he acted within his authority to decline to 
take up the unanticipated topic. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
“[e]ntered into executive session for an illegal purpose for ‘compliance with the Student Records 
Law’ which is not one of the 10 exemptions that allow executive session.” In its response, the 
Committee explains that “[t]he executive session was convened for the purpose of discussing [a] 
potential settlement agreement” and “[t]he reference in the meeting notice to ‘comply with 
student records law’ simply underscores the Committee’s obligation to conduct all discussions in 
accordance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations governing student records.” 
(emphasis in original). Indeed, the video recording of the Committee’s June 2 meeting supports 
this assertion. Furthermore, the Complainant does not dispute that the Committee properly met in 
executive session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, namely a settlement agreement, 
which is permissible for discussion in executive session under Purpose 3. Therefore, based on the 
information before us, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it 
convened in executive session under Purpose 3 on June 2. 
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we remind the Committee that when convening 
in exe
cutive session under Purpose 7, a public body must cite to the specific law that requires the 
public body to keep its deliberations confidential. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining proper use of Purpose 7 to enter 
executive session requires enumeration of enabling law); OML 2014-42. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Rishab Ramamurthy, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Mayor Paul Coogan, Chair, Fall River School Committee   
(via email: pcoogan@fallriverschools.org)  
Fall River City Clerk (via email: city clerk@fallriverma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
