===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
January 15, 2015 
OML 2015-8 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Mrs. Jean Hoffman-Anuta dated November 10, 
alleging that the Ayer Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
September 23, and the Commission responded to the original complaint by letter dated October 
23. In her complaint, Mrs. Hoffman-Anuta alleges that the Commission (i) failed to include 
sufficient detail in a meeting agenda; and (ii) deliberated outside of an open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in a meeting notice. However, we find that the Commission did 
not deliberate outside of an open meeting. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint; the Commission's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
We also reviewed the meeting notice and open session minutes for a meeting of the Commission 
held on August 28. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a six-member body charged with the 
preservation of natural resources within the Town of Ayer (the "Town"). At issue in this 
complaint are four Orders of Condition burdening several properties located in a residential 
development called Pingry Hill. One of the Orders was issued in September 2009, with the 
remaining three issued in November 2010. Mrs. Hoffman-Anuta's property is one of those 
affected by the Orders of Condition. Although the Orders had been applied for and issued to the 
developer years prior, the original signature pages were apparently lost by the applicant 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
developer. It was therefore necessary for the Commission to re-execute the Orders of Condition 
in order to record them. 
The Commission held a meeting on August 28. The agenda for this meeting included an 
item entitled "Reissuing of Original Orders of Conditions for Pingry Hill." Under this item were 
listed four properties which were identified solely by the Department of Environmental 
Protection ("DEP") file numbers assigned to each property. For example, the complainant's 
property was listed on the agenda solely as "Mass DEP File #100-330." There was no other 
identifying information for the properties. The minutes for the August 28 meeting show that the 
Commission signed the Orders without engaging in any discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Notice for the August 28 Meeting did not Contain Sufficient Detail 
Regarding the Orders of Condition. 
The Open Meeting Law states in pertinent part that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in 
addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Any topic discussed at a meeting which was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair must be listed in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(b). 
At issue is whether the agenda contained sufficient detail regarding the execution of the 
Orders of Condition governing the four Pingry Hill properties. We find that it did not. Here, the 
four properties were listed solely by their DEP file numbers. The complainant had no knowledge 
of this number, which had not been recorded on the deed to her property. Because the Orders 
containing the DEP filed numbers were never recorded with the Registry of Deeds, she could not 
easily have discovered it. We note that during the August 28 meeting, other properties that 
would be affected by discussions taking place during the meeting were listed by their street 
address. For example, two properties to be discussed for Notices of Intent were listed on the 
meeting agenda by their full street addresses, affording those property owners notice that their 
parcels would be discussed. The Commission should have listed similar details for the properties 
affected by the Orders of Condition that were signed during the August 28 meeting. This level 
of detail is necessary to enable the public to understand what business will be transacted by the 
Commission and, where members of the public may have an interest, to attend the meeting and 
witness the relevant actions. See OML 2013-15. We conclude that the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient detail in the meeting notice. 
In response to Mrs. Hoffman-Anuta's complaint, the Commission stated that because the 
signing of the Orders of Condition was merely a ministerial act, no Open Meeting Law violation 
took place. We have previously stated that a purely ministerial act, such as signing a document, 
may take place outside of a meeting when the terms have previously been discussed and 
approved during a meeting. See OML 2013-84. Here, the terms in the Orders of Conditions 
were agreed upon years earlier, and the Commission could likely have signed the Orders outside 
of a meeting. Id. However, because the Commission opted to sign them during a meeting, and 
because the Chair anticipated signing them more than 48 hours in advance, the Commission was 
under the obligation to provide sufficient notice to the public. See 940 CMR 29.03(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
II. The Commission did not Engage in Improper Deliberation. 
In the original complaint, Mrs. Hoffman-Anuta alleges that because the Commission 
signed the Orders without discussing them, the Commission must have engaged in deliberation 
outside of a meeting to discuss the contents of the Orders. The Commission has denied that any 
outside deliberation took place, and Mrs. Hoffman-Anuta has not provided us with sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate any such deliberation here. Absent sufficient evidence to support the 
complaint's allegations, we credit the Commission's account of the facts and find no violation. 
See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133. 
As a final matter, we note that the Commission failed to respond to the complaint within 
the time frame required by the Open Meeting Law. Unless an extension of time has been 
requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney 
General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). 
Here, the original complaint was filed with the Commission on September 23. Therefore, the 
Commission should have responded no later than October 14. Because the Commission did not 
request an extension of time and responded in a letter dated October 23, we find that the 
Commission failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements. See OML 2014-130; 
OML 2013-94. We take this opportunity to remind the Commission of its obligations under the 
Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail in a meeting notice. We order the Commission's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution the Commission 
that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mrs. Jean Hoffman-Anuta 
Ayer Conservation Commission 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 