===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 3, 2019 
OML 2019-124
Darlene Torre, Chair 
Billerica School Committee 
365 Boston Road 
Billerica, MA 01821
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Torre:
This office received a complaint from George Noel on July 22 alleging that the Billerica 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 9, and you responded, on behalf 
of the Committee, by email dated June 23.2 The complaint alleges that the chair of the 
Committee appointed a subcommittee “without deliberations at a public meeting or input from 
other School Committee members.”
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and open session minutes of the 
Committee’s April 22 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3 We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 We remind the public body that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
3 The video recording of the April 22 meeting is available at 
http://billerica.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/18007channeN3.

===PAGE 2===
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
After the conclusion of a Billerica High School Building Committee meeting on April 16, 
Committee Chair Darlene Torre spoke with the Town Manager about the creation of a 
subcommittee for the purpose of designating a site for memorials at the new high school. That 
same night, Chair Torres spoke with a Billerica resident, who was also at that meeting, about 
specific individuals who might be interested in serving on such a subcommittee.
On April 17, Chair Torres met with Billerica School Superintendent Timothy Piwowar 
and discussed the notice for the Committee’s upcoming meeting on April 22. They also 
discussed the creation of a subcommittee which would advise the Committee on the placement of 
memorials at the new high school and specific individuals who might be appointed to such a 
subcommittee. Over the next two days, Chair Torre and Superintendent Piwowar discussed via 
email the specific topics to be included on the April 22 meeting notice. On April 18 at 2:24 
P.M., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 22 at 6 P.M. The notice 
included 30 topics, one of which was “Creation of Memorial Subcommittee.”4
During the April 22 meeting, several residents expressed concerns with replacing 
memorials at the high school. Committee Member John Burrows then made a motion to create a 
subcommittee “the composition of which is to be recommended to the full [Committee], by the 
chair, for purposes of designating a site or sites in or on the new construction project for free 
standing monuments, class gifts, or other memorials honoring individuals which items require 
relocation as a result of the construction project.” Mr. Burrows then read the names of six 
individuals to be appointed to the subcommittee. Chair Torre stated that she discussed the 
recommendation of these six individuals with the Superintendent. Committee member Katie 
Mahoney questioned whether there should be an application process for the subcommittee, but 
Chair Torres stated that there was not enough time for that process. A resident then stepped 
forward and volunteered to serve on the subcommittee. The Committee unanimously voted to 
create a memorial subcommittee and appointed to the subcommittee those individuals discussed 
that night at the meeting.
The complaint suggests that the chair violated the Open Meeting Law by choosing the 
subcommittee members herself without any discussion among the Committee. Even if true, this 
allegation would not violate the Open Meeting Law. The law prohibits deliberation of 
Committee business among a quorum of members outside of a properly posted meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Here, any communications regarding potential subcommittee members were 
between the chair and the Superintendent, the Town Manager or residents, all of whom are not 
members of the Committee. Because the communications did not otherwise reach a quorum of
4 We remind the Committee that to the extent the Committee knows the names of the specific individuals to be 
appointed to a subcommittee, such information should be included in the meeting notice. See 2015-196; OML 
2014- 155; OML 2011-11.
2

===PAGE 3===
the Committee, such communications did not constitute deliberation. See OML 2017-199; OML 
2017-69; OML 2015-77; OML 2011-52.5
Regardless, the April 22 meeting notice, included the creation of a memorial 
subcommittee as a topic and the Committee discussed the creation of a memorial subcommittee 
during the April 22 meeting. The Committee also discussed the specific individuals to be 
appointed to the subcommittee, unanimously voted to create the subcommittee, and appointed to 
the subcommittee those individuals who were discussed during the meeting.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: George Noel
Timothy Pi wo war, Superintendent 
Michael J. Long, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/op enmeeting.
3
