===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
        August 20, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 130 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregg J Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law  
gcorbo@k-plaw.com  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo:  
 
This office received complaints from John Barrella and Matthew Philips on May 2 and 
May 16, respectively, alleging that the Middleborough Finance Committee (the “Committee”), 
and specifically, members Eric Machado, Alan Kirschner, and Ryan Downey, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
on or about April 11, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letters dated May 2.  The 
complaints allege that (1) a quorum of the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting; 
and (2) the meeting of April 14 was “illegal” because notice was posted by someone other than 
the chair.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a public meeting.  We decline to review the remaining allegation.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s 
response, the request for further review, email communication between the Committee members, 
and a video recording of the meeting.
1 
 
  
 
1 The recording of the April 14 meeting was accessed at https://vod.mccam02346.com/store-3/9323 -Fin-Com-4-14-
25-v1/vod.mp4  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  On April 4, Chair John Barrella2 forwarded financial 
documents prepared by non-members to the other Committee members in preparation for the 
Committee’s presentation at Town Meeting.  In his email attaching the documents, Chair 
Barrella explained modifications that he made to the formatting.  He noted that the information 
“is vital to share with our taxpayers, as they are the ultimate authority on town taxpayer money 
approval.”  Member Ryan Downey responded the same day, stating that he was considering 
resigning from the Committee and urging a “reorg[anization] sooner rather than later.”  Member 
Eric Machado echoed Mr. Downey’s sentiment and called for “a meeting for the sole purpose of 
reorganization once the annual town election results are certified. . . .”  Member Alan Kirschner 
commented on the financial documents circulated by Chair Barrella and also agreed that “we 
need a meeting before town meeting for discussion and a reorganization vote.”  There followed 
further discussion by email of scheduling a meeting to reorganize the Committee, with Member 
Machado expressing impatience with the timeline suggested by Chair Barrella.  In an email sent 
to his fellow Committee members on April 9, Member Machado asked that notice be posted by 
the close of business that day, “in light of how things have been;” otherwise, he would post 
notice of the meeting himself.  He noted: “We’re available Monday at 7pm.”  Chair Barrella 
responded that he had already submitted a notice to schedule a meeting for Thursday, April 24, 
adding, “I guess I am a bit confused when Eric mentions ‘we’.  I am not sure who ‘we’ is as it 
clearly did not include at least myself.”  He continued: “So that everyone is on the same page, a 
meeting for reorganization of the committee . . . is something I welcome.”  He then outlined “a 
list of items to workshop in the coming months.”  He noted that “[t]hese items and more should 
continue to be made a priority so that we can fully engage and prepare the next budget 
sequence.” 
 
On April 10, Member Machado sent to the Town Clerk notice of a Committee meeting to 
be held on April 14.  The notice was posted at 12:02 p.m. that day.  The meeting took place, as 
scheduled. 
  
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee did not deliberate via email in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that “‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
 
2 Mr. Barrella was the chair of the Committee at all times relevant to this determination but is no longer chair. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
information . . . or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provide
d that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  
 
Communication between a quorum of a public body for the purpose of choosing a 
mee
ting date is not deliberation, if discussion is limited to a request to schedule a meeting and 
the availability of members on proposed meeting dates.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (specifying that 
“deliberation” shall not include the distribution of scheduling information); OML 2023-158; 
OML 2020-94.3  Although a close question, we find that the emails that are the subject of the 
complaints here focused on scheduling a meeting, and therefore did not constitute deliberation 
outside a meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Nonetheless, we caution the 
Committee that when communicating about scheduling, members must not discuss matters of 
substance within the body’s jurisdiction or share their opinions regarding matters being proposed 
as meeting topics.  The tone of the email exchange from April 4 to April 9 reflects tension over 
leadership of the Committee.  For example, Member Downey suggested he would resign if the 
Committee was not soon reorganized; Member Machado imposed a deadline to schedule the 
meeting “in light of how things have been;” and Chair Barrella took issue with Member 
Machado selecting a date without consulting him.  Although the exchange was not a 
dispassionate comparison of calendars, the members stopped short of explicitly debating 
leadership or other matters of substance.  Therefore, we find that the email exchange constitutes 
communication about scheduling. 
 
II. We decl
 ine to review the allegation that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when someone other than the chair posted notice of the meeting of 
April 14.   
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  The Open Meeting Law provides that notice of every meeting must be posted “at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,” and that every 
notice shall include “the date, time and place of such meeting, and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  However, 
the Law is silent on who has the authority to call meetings.  Id.  See also OML 2014-139.  
Because the posting of notice of a meeting by a member other than the chair, even if true, would 
not be a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review this allegation. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
 
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/the-open-
meeting-law.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern  
 
 
cc: John Anthony Barrella III, Chair, ( FinComChair@middleboroughma.gov)   
Allison Ferreira, Town Clerk, (via email: aferreira@middleborough.com)  
Matthew Phillips, (via email: )   
 
 
 
 
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
