===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 1, 2021 
       
       OML 2021 – 21 
 
 
Adam J. Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
 
This office received two complaints on September 8, 2020, from Tammy Daniels alleging 
that the Mount Greylock Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on July 13 and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated July 28.  
The second complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 28 and Attorney 
Kimberly Roche responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 14.  Both  
complaints allege that the Committee met in executive session for an improper purpose, first to 
discuss the search process for a new Superintendent during its July 1 meeting and then to discuss 
an Open Meeting Law complaint during its July 24 meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing certain 
matters during its July 1 executive session meeting that did not relate to the stated purpose of 
strategy sessions to prepare for contract negotiations.  We find that the Committee did not violate 
the law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and executive session minutes of 
Committee meetings held on June 3, June 17, and July 1; the notices and open and executive 
session minutes of Committee meetings held on June 25 and July 24; and the notice and open 
session minutes of the Committee meeting held on July 13.  Finally, we spoke with Kimberley 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020, unless otherwise indicated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Grady, former Mount Greylock School Superintendent, by telephone on October 23 and 
February 8, 2021, and with you by telephone on February 17, 2021.2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  During remote meetings held on June 3, June 17, and June 
25, the Committee moved to convene in executive session “to conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations” with the Superintendent.  During the June 3 meeting, the 
Committee discussed whether to renew the contract of the Superintendent and suggested possible 
candidates to serve as Interim Superintendent should the contract not be renewed.3  During the 
June 17 and June 25 executive session meetings, the Committee discussed specific terms for 
reaching a separation agreement with the Superintendent and some members commented on the 
Superintendent’s overall performance.4  
  
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 1 at 4:00 P.M.  The notice 
listed an Executive Session under Purpose 2 “to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
contract negotiations with non-union personnel (Superintendent).”  The Committee met remotely 
on July 1 and unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session “to conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations” with the Superintendent.  The Committee continued to 
discuss specific terms for reaching a separation agreement with the Superintendent but also 
discussed the need for an interim Superintendent and how to address questions and public 
comments regarding the Superintendent’s departure.   
 
During a July 13 open session meeting, the Committee discussed the search process for 
selecting a new Superintendent and timeframe for posting a job description and interviewing 
candidates.  Later that same day, the complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 24 at 12:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed an Executive Session under Purpose 1 “to discuss a complaint brought against the 
public body (Open Meeting Law Complaint filed by T. Daniels of iBerkshires against MGRSD 
School Committee).”  The notice then listed four open session topics.  
 
The Committee met remotely on July 24 and unanimously voted by roll call to convene 
in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant against 
the Committee.  The Committee reviewed and discussed the complaint and appointed Attorney 
 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Although not raised in the complaints, we note our concern with some of the matters that the Committee discussed 
during its June 3 executive session meeting, including discussions relating to possible candidates for interim 
Superintendent, that did not relate to the stated executive session purpose to conduct strategy sessions for contract 
negotiations.  We remind the Committee of its obligations under the law to only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cites, and that the Law authorizes, when entering executive 
session. 
4 We note that references to the Superintendent’s professional competence that directly relate to the public body’s 
consideration of whether to renew a contract can be appropriate under Purpose 2.  See District Attorney for Northern 
Dist. v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 568 (Mass. 2009) (“[w]hile professional competence must 
first be discussed in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary negotiation strategy 
may be a suitable discussion for an executive session”).   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Adam Dupere to respond to the complaint.5  The Committee then reconvened in open session 
and discussed the remaining noticed topics. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.6  Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).   
 
The first complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s July 1 executive session 
meeting.  A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  Here, the Board convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 and discussed 
potential terms to be included in a separation agreement with the Superintendent, as well as 
hiring an interim Superintendent and how to address questions regarding the Superintendent’s 
departure.  The Committee’s discussion of the Superintendent’s separation agreement fit within 
the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as the discussions related to strategy in 
preparation for contract negotiations.  See OML 2018-146 (finding that public body did not 
violate Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive session Superintendent’s separation 
agreement); OML 2017-69 (finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by 
discussing in executive session strategy with respect to negotiating a separation agreement with 
Superintendent); OML 2013-184 (finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by 
discussing in executive session strategy in preparation for renegotiating contract with 
Superintendent).  Therefore, we conclude that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by convening in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to the Superintendent’s 
severance agreement during the July 1 meeting.  
 
 
5 We note that the Committee has publicly released the minutes of the executive session meetings held on June 3, 
June 17, June 25, July 1, and July 24. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
However, we find that the Committee’s discussions relative to hiring an interim 
Superintendent and how to respond to comments and questions about the Superintendent’s 
departure did not fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, or any other executive 
session purpose.  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects 
that fit within one of the ten enumerated purposes and related to the narrow executive session 
purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See District Attorney for the 
Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) 
(executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters other than those 
pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was called).  We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the need for an interim Superintendent 
and how it might respond to questions about the Superintendent’s departure during the July 1 
executive session meeting.  Because the Committee has released the July 1 executive session 
meeting minutes, we order no additional relief.  See OML 2014-150.   
 
The second complaint alleges that the Committee improperly met in executive session to 
discuss the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  Our office has stated in past determinations that 
public bodies may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law 
complaints against the body.  See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011-
6.  Executive session Purpose 1 allows a public body to discuss “the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  We have determined that an 
Open Meeting Law complaint is by its nature “brought against[] a public officer,” namely, the 
members of the public body.  See OML 2012-119.  Accordingly, we find that the Committee was 
permitted to conduct its review in executive session during the July 24 meeting, and therefore did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Although not raised in the complaints, we note our concern with the Committee’s 
apparent failure to convene in open session prior to entering executive session on June 3 and 
June 17.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b)(1).  The notices for these two executive sessions do not 
include the location of the meetings other than indicating “Remote Zoom Meeting.”7  According 
to the minutes, the Committee met remotely and completed the procedural steps before 
convening in each executive session, including announcing the purpose for the executive 
sessions and taking a roll call vote.  However, the public has a right to witness these procedural 
steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the executive session.  See OML 
2013-195.  Where meeting notices do not identify the location, including a website, where those 
procedural steps will take place and public bodies do not first convene in open session to take 
those procedural steps, members of the public are denied this right.  See OML 2019-82; OML 
2018-95.  We remind the Committee of its obligations under the law. 
 
7 We note that the notices for the June 25 and July 1 meetings also do not include the location of the meetings other 
than indicating “Remote Zoom Meeting.”  However, it appears that, on these two dates, the Committee first met in 
open session and completed the procedural steps before convening in these two executive sessions, including 
announcing the purpose for the executive sessions and taking a roll call vote.  Nevertheless, we remind the 
Committee of its obligations to ensure that the notices accurately identify the location of each meeting so the public 
has a right to witness the procedural steps in order to observe the vote and learn the purpose for the executive 
session.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing in executive session on July 1 certain matters that did not pertain to the 
Superintendent’s separation agreement and thus did not fit within the parameters of Purpose 2.  
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Tammy Daniels – By email only:  
Mount Greylock Regional School Committee – By email only: 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
