===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 19,2017 
OML 2017-63 
Laurie Losti 
Chair, Ashland School Committee 
87 West Union Street 
Ashland, MA 01721 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Losti: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on March 15, alleging that the 
Ashland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 11, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 9.2 In his complaint, 
Mr. Morgan alleges that the Committee discussed a topic that was not listed on the final 
notice posted at least 48 hours before its February 8 meeting. 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). Although we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged in the complaint, we find that the Committee took appropriate remedial action in 
response to the complaint and we order no further action. 
On January 31, the Committee initially posted notice of a meeting for February 8. On 
February 2, the Committee posted an amended notice which listed "Discussion-Open Meeting 
Law Complaint." Lhen on February 6, Chair Losti requested that a topic regarding the school 
budget be added to the notice. The person who amended the notice inadvertently replaced the 
topic concerning an Open Meeting Law complaint with the budget topic. Lhe Committee 
members received a version of the notice in advance of the meeting which still listed the Open 
Meeting Law topic. However, the website with the official notice did not include the Open 
Meeting Law topic. Believing that the topic had been listed on the notice, the Committee 
received an update during the meeting from the Negotiation Subcommittee regarding its 
response to an Open Meeting Law complaint. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). During its March 8 meeting, the Committee 
acknowledged that it had violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic that had been 
inadvertently removed from the final notice posted on the website. Because the Committee 
discussed an anticipated topic that was not listed on the final notice, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. However, because this appears to be an honest 
mistake and not a misunderstanding of the Open Meeting Law's requirements, and because 
the Committee acknowledged its error, we order no additional relief. See OML 2017-35.3 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.' 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 