===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 17, 2025  
  
OML 2025 – 73 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Attorney Karen O. Ahlers 
26 Village Drive 
Northborough, MA 01721 
karenoahlers@gmail.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Ahlers:  
 
This office received a complaint from James Cote on February 18, 2025,1 alleging that 
the West Brookfield Housing Authority Board of Directors (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on 
October 17, 2024; you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 28, 2025.  The 
complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when (1) it deliberated outside 
a meeting; (2) the chair requested and then photographed identification from the complainant and 
his wife at the Board’s meeting on September 19, 2024;3 and (3) the chair failed to announce that 
the September 19 meeting was being recorded.4     
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
deliberated outside a meeting and when the chair requested and photographed identification from 
the complainant and his wife.  We find that the Board did not violate the Law in the other way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed 
emails from Mr. Cote, replying to the Board’s response.  We interviewed James Cote by 
telephone, and Laurie Sokol and Anthony Fernandes via Teams.  We reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the September 19 meeting.  Finally, we listened to an audio recording of the meeting.   
 
1 The complaint was sent via email on Saturday, February 16, 2025. 
2 The complaint was filed with the West Brookfield Housing Authority and alleges that the Executive Director and 
the Board of Directors committed the violations. Because the Executive Director is not a public body, we read the 
complaint as being directed to the Board of Directors only.   
3 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
4 The complaint alleges only that a recording was made.  Because recordings of public meetings are allowed with 
limited exceptions and so long as procedural requirements are met, we read the complaint to allege that the 
recording was not announced by the chair as required by the Open Meeting Law.  See  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On September 16, notice was posted of a Board meeting to 
take place on September 19 at 10:00 a.m.  In the months leading up to the September 19 meeting, 
the complainant had multiple interactions with the West Brookfield Housing Authority 
(“Housing Authority”), regarding the eviction of his granddaughter and her mother from a 
Housing Authority apartment.  These contacts included, among other things, telephone calls, 
correspondence, and public records requests.  On September 16, Mr. Cote advised the Housing 
Authority that he planned to attend the September 19 Board meeting.  He wished to be 
recognized to discuss, among other things, the Housing Authority Executive Director’s handling 
of the eviction of his granddaughter and her mother.   
 
 The Executive Director of the Housing Authority, Fiona Andrewes, is not a member of 
the Board, but attends its meetings and keeps its minutes.  On the morning of September 19, 
prior to the meeting, Executive Director Andrewes asked Housing Authority Administrative 
Assistant Laurie Sokol to attend the meeting to take notes of the discussion with Mr. Cote.  
Executive Director Andrewes asked for Ms. Sokol to assist with the minutes that day because she 
wanted to be able to focus on Mr. Cote’s comments.  Ms. Sokol generally does not attend Board 
meetings.   
 
 Board meetings are held in a small Housing Authority building.  When entering the 
building, there are offices to the left.  The small community room where meetings are held is 
down a hall.  There is no security desk when entering the building.  According to Ms. Sokol, she 
escorted the Cotes down the hall and into the community room upon their arrival on September 
19.   
 
 In light of Mr. Cote’s prior communications with the Housing Authority, the Board 
decided to have member Anthony Fernandes, who is an attorney, chair the portion of the meeting 
when Mr. Cote was to address the Board.  The Board believed that Mr. Fernandes would be 
better qualified to navigate any issues relative to the Open Meeting Law or confidentiality that 
might arise during the complainant’s comments.  The timing of the Board’s decision is in 
dispute.  The Board maintains that it appointed Mr. Fernandes acting chair in open session after 
the September 19 meeting started but before Mr. Cote and his wife arrived.  Both Mr. Fernandes 
and Ms. Sokol recalled that Mr. Cote and his wife were late to the meeting.  Minutes of the 
meeting, signed by all four Board members in attendance, note that after the meeting was called 
to order, when “Mr. and Mrs. Cote had not entered the room yet,” the Board decided that 
Anthony Fernandes would chair the portion of the meeting when the Cotes addressed the Board.  
Mr. Cote offers a conflicting account.  He recalls that he and his wife arrived prior to the 
commencement of the meeting.  A screenshot provided by Laurie Sokol shows that the audio 
recording of the Cotes’ comments began at 9:59 a.m.  While seated in the community room, Mr. 
Cote did not overhear any discussion about Mr. Fernandes chairing the meeting. 
 
 After Mr. Cote and his wife were seated, Acting Chair Fernandes approached them and 
asked for identification.  Mr. Cote and his wife cooperated with the request for identification and 
also agreed to have their identification photographed.  Ms. Sokol decided upon her own initiative 
to record Mr. Cote’s comments to assist her in the preparation of the minutes.  She did not tell 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the Board that she was recording the meeting.  Mr. Cote asked Ms. Sokol if she was recording 
the meeting and she confirmed that she was.  Acting Chair Fernandes maintains that he learned 
of the recording only after the meeting.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board deliberated outside of a meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all deliberations of a public body 
occur during a properly noticed meeting that, unless properly convened in executive session, is 
open to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.5  Subject to exceptions not relevant 
here, the Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an 
exception to the definition of “deliberation ” for procedural discussions among public body 
members about how its meetings should be run.  See OML 2023-215; 2017-91.  Discussions 
regarding procedural or administrative matters, such as organization and leadership of the public 
body or how a public body conducts its business, relate to public business within a body’s 
jurisdiction.  See OML 2025-61; OML 2014-14; OML 2013-51; OML 2013-27. 
 
The Board maintains that it discussed the temporary transfer of the chairmanship to 
Anthony Fernandes in open session at the beginning of the September 19 meeting, prior to the 
Cotes’ arrival.  This account is consistent with the signed minutes of the September 19 meeting, 
which reflect that the discussion occurred in open session prior to the Cotes’ arrival.6  Moreover, 
the complainant has acknowledged that he did not witness any discussion among Board members 
outside a meeting.  We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture 
regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to 
support a complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2025-15; OML 2024-108; OML 2014-114; 
OML 2012-59.7   
 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  
See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  Here, however, there is strong—if not 
irrefutable—evidence contradicting the Board’s account: a recording of the Cotes starting at 9:59 
a.m., one minute prior to the scheduled start time of the meeting.  Although the recording is of 
poor quality, Mr. Fernandes can be heard leading the discussion with the complainant.  Based on 
the time stamp of the recording, we find that as of the posted time of the September 19 meeting, 
Mr. Fernandes was acting as Board chair.  Because the decision to have Mr. Fernandes step in as 
 
5 The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
6 When we interviewed Anthony Fernandes, he had poor recall of when the arrangement was made and we do not 
credit his statement on that issue.      
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
chair arose from the complainant’s request, on September 16, that he address the Board, and 
there was no open session between September 16 and September 19, the decision to have Mr. 
Fernandes chair a portion of the meeting could not have occurred during an open session.8  We 
find, therefore, that the decision to have Mr. Fernandes serve as acting chair was made outside of 
a posted open meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it requested and photographed 
identification of the complainant and his wife. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Generally, access to a meeting must 
include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2016-54; OML 2014-
19.   
 
Under some circumstances, a public body may require that attendees identify themselves 
without running afoul of the Open Meeting Law.  A security policy requiring photo identification 
for admission to offices may be enforced as to persons entering those offices to attend a public 
meeting.  See OML 2024-135; OML 2015-92.  In finding that public bodies did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law when they enforced security policies, we noted in those determinations that 
all visitors were required to present photo identification to enter the government offices, whether 
for a public meeting or other purpose, and therefore consistent enforcement of the policy at a 
public meeting did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  Id. 
 
Here, by contrast, when the chair required that the Cotes present identification and 
photographed that identification, the Board was not enforcing a pre-existing security policy.  The 
request was directed specifically at the complainant and his wife after they had already taken 
their seats.  In light of the prior interaction between the complainant and the Housing Authority, 
and the complainant’s stated intent to attend the September 19 meeting, the request for 
identification reasonably could be understood as a form of intimidation, whether Mr. Fernandes 
intended it that way or not.  We have said that security policies may not be used as a pretext to 
discourage public attendance at public meetings.  See OML 2024-135; OML 2015-92.  A request 
to review and photograph the identification of a person who has expressed criticism of the public 
body presents an unacceptable risk of discouraging public attendance.   
 
The Board maintains that Acting Chair Fernandes did not state or imply that the 
complainant could not attend the meeting unless he and his wife showed identification.  The 
Board also explains that Acting Chair Fernandes wanted to ensure that Mr. Cote and / or his wife 
was related to the tenant who had been evicted, to make sure he could speak on her behalf.  We 
question whether the production of identification could conclusively establish that a relationship 
existed with the evicted tenant.  More importantly for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, such a 
request has a chilling effect on public attendance, even if access is not conditional on producing 
 
8 The alternative inference from these facts is that the Board convened the meeting and conducted business prior to 
the posted start time of the meeting, which also would violate the Open Meeting Law.   See G.L. c. 30A, §20(b) 
(notice must contain the date, time and place of the meeting); OML 2021-53 (cautioning public body not to start 
meeting before posted start time). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
identification.  Finally, we have said that a chair may ask members of the public to identify 
themselves on a sign-up sheet as a permissible exercise of their discretion to set the terms of 
public comment.  See OML 2022-188; OML 2018-116.  Here, however, the Board, through its 
acting chair, asked for identification and photographed it, a practice it does not claim was part of 
a pre-existing, consistently enforced security policy.  In so doing, it violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
III. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when Laurie Sokol recorded 
Mr. Cote’s comments. 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body. . . 
.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The Law further provides that “[a]t the beginning of the meeting, the 
chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”  Id.  The requirement that the chair inform 
attendees of any recording includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, 
including those made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the 
drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2023-154; OML 2019-129; OML 2015-147.  
 
The chair must inform members of the public of any recording of which they are aware.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e); OML 2016-118; 2014-8; OML 2012-24.  While it may be good 
practice for a chair to inquire whether anyone intends to record a specific meeting, they are not 
required to do so.  See OML 2016-118; OML 2013-136.  Laurie Sokol was not a member of the 
Board and did not tell the chair that she was recording the meeting to assist her in the preparation 
of minutes.  Although Chair Fernandes did not have a clear memory of when he learned of the 
recording, he has denied that he was aware of the recording while it was in progress.  Because 
Acting Chair Fernandes was required to announce only those recordings of which he was aware, 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when he did not do so.9 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated outside a public meeting and when it requested and photographed 
identification from the complainant and his wife.  We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
  
 
9 The complainant, who arguably had the greatest interest in knowing whether the meeting was being recorded,  was 
told that the meeting was being recorded when he asked Ms. Sokol.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: James Cote (via email: ) 
 West Brookfield Housing Authority (via email: wbhousing@verizon.net) 
 West Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: vitals@wbrookfield.com) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
