===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 50 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Amanda Zuretti, Esq. 
Petrini Associates, P.C.  
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Zuretti: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bob Murchison on December 20, 2021, alleging 
that the Sherborn Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 17, 2021, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 9, 2021. The complaint alleges that 
the Board failed to timely approve meeting minutes between June of 2020 and October of 2021. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, and minutes for Board meetings held from June of 2020 
through November of 2021.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The period of time referenced in the complaint, June 
of 2020 through October of 2021, covers approximately the first year and a half of the Covid-19 
pandemic. During this period the Board, which previously met approximately 20 times per year, 
held 38 meetings. The Board represents that it takes approximately six hours to prepare minutes 
for each meeting as it takes seriously the responsibility for preparing accurate and thorough 
minutes which serve as historical records for the town; we acknowledge that the Board’s minutes 
are extraordinarily detailed. Specifically relevant to our review here, the Board met on the 
following dates in 2021: July 21; August 18; September 1, 15, 22, and 29; and October 20. The 
minutes for meetings held on July 21; August 18; September 1, 15, 22, and 29, were all approved 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
during the Board’s October 20 meeting. The minutes for the October 20 meeting were approved 
during the Board’s next meeting, which was held on November 3.  
 
The Board is comprised of five volunteer members, all of whom are otherwise employed 
fulltime. In response to the rapidly evolving Covid-19 pandemic, Board members and staff took 
on greatly increased responsibilities and obligations, in addition to their regular responsibilities, 
leading to highly increased workloads, more frequent meetings, and increased work and 
volunteer hours. For example, during portions of this period, the Board of Health’s 
Administrator, who assists the Board in drafting its meeting minutes, logged an average of 25 
extra hours per week, with a range from 9 to 46 extra hours per week. Likewise, the Board’s 
Chair tracked over 500 volunteer hours from January through May of 2020, at which time 
tracking ended. Some of the increased workload consisted of, for example, additional Board 
meetings; attendance by various Board members at recuring meetings hosted by other public 
bodies and organizations; attendance by the Health Administrator at additional recuring 
meetings; responding to a high volume of questions and novel issues related to the pandemic; 
investigating and addressing safety concerns raised by residents; creating and maintaining 
webpages with information about Covid-19; and assisting in recruiting new members for the 
Sherborn Medical Reserve Corps in preparation for a possible Covid-19 vaccination clinic.  
 
The Board had approved all meeting minutes that are the subject of this complaint prior 
to this complaint being filed with the Board. Additionally, all meeting minutes that are the 
subject of this compliant have been posted to the Town’s website.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must be created and 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 
2017-133. 
 
I. We Decline to Review Allegations That Were Not Timely Raised.  
 
The complaint is untimely with respect to all meeting minutes implicated or specifically 
referenced in the complaint, other than the seven sets of meeting minutes we review below. To 
be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public body within 
30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). When a public body approves minutes 
during an open session, any complaints regarding the timely creation, approval, sufficiency, or 
accuracy of those minutes must be filed within 30 days of the meeting during which they were 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
approved. See OML Declination 9-4-12 (Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Board of Appeals).1 All 
meeting minutes included in the timeframe June of 2020 through October of 2021, other than the 
seven sets of minutes we review, were approved more than 30 days prior to the filing of the 
November 17, 2021, complaint. Accordingly, we decline to review whether those minutes were 
timely approved.  
 
II. The Board Timely Approved Four Sets of Meeting Minutes and Has Shown Good 
Cause for Delay With Respect to the Approval of the Remaining Meeting Minutes. 
 
To begin, the minutes for the Board’s meetings held on September 15, September 22, 
September 29, and October 20 of 2021, were timely approved where the Board approved them 
within 30 days or within three meetings. Therefore, we find no violation with respect to the 
approval of theses minutes. 
 
The remaining three sets of minutes—for meetings held on July 21, August 18, and 
September 1 of 2021—were not approved within 30 days or three meetings. The Board does not 
deny that these minutes were not approved within 30 days or three meetings, but asserts that it 
had good cause for delay in approving these minutes due to the extreme demands on both staff 
and Board members in responding to the Covid-19 pandemic. In general, staffing shortages of 
the type that all governmental bodies with limited resources experience, or periodic staff 
vacancies, do not constitute good cause for failing to approve minutes in a timely manner, as it is 
the responsibility of the public body and its members to take steps to ensure that staff have 
adequate assistance to complete the minutes in a timely manner, including having members of 
the public body assist in the creation of minutes if necessary. See OML 2021-177; OML 2018-
105; OML 2015-86. Ultimately, the responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement that meeting minutes be created and approved in a timely manner rests with public 
bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such as 
administrative staff. See OML 2018-105.  
 
Here, based on the specific facts that the Board has presented, including the 
extraordinary, novel, and time-consuming demands placed on both the Board and its staff by the 
pandemic, which go far beyond routine staff shortages, frequent meetings, and the like, we find 
the Board has demonstrated good cause for its relatively short delay in approving minutes for the 
July 21, August 18, and September 1 meetings. We also note that the Board worked to approve 
the backlog of meeting minutes and that the Board had already approved all minutes from June 
2020 through October 2021 prior to this complaint being filed with the Board.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sherborn Board of Health (via email: ) 
Bob Murchison (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
