===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 11,2018 
Notice: 
This determination was issued by the Attorney General prior to the April 5, 2018, decision of the 
Supreme Judicial Court in the matter of Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, No. SJC-
12353, which may supersede this determination to the extent that the two are inconsistent. In 
Boelter, the Court concluded that the Wayland Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting 
Law by distributing to its members employee performance evaluations that included opinions of 
individual Board members. Communication of these opinions by email constituted 
"deliberation" by the Board members that may occur only during a properly noticed meeting. 
This decision establishes that public body members may not send opinions to each other, 
including individual employee performance evaluations for aggregation, outside of a noticed 
meeting. After April 5, 2018, the Division of Open Government will adhere to the Court's 
holding in Boelter in its enforcement of the Open Meeting Law. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Director, Division of Open Government 
O 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 21, 2015 
OML 2015 - 98 
Nancy Funkhouser, Chair 
Wayland Finance Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Funkhouser: 
This office received a complaint from George H. Harris, dated April 6, 2015, alleging 
that the Wayland Finance Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 9, 2015, and 
the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated February 18, 2015. In his 
complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that former Committee Chair Thomas Greenaway deliberated via 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and 
the request for further review filed with our office. Further, we reviewed three e-mails which 
were sent by Chair Greenaway to all of the other Committee members on November 7 and 
November 10, 2014, respectively. 
We find the facts as follows. Mr. Harris filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the 
Committee on October 31, 2014. On November 7, 2014, Chair Greenaway sent an e-mail to the 
other Committee members. Attached to the e-mail was a draft response to Mr, Harris' October 
31, 2014 complaint. The text of the e-mail reads as follows: "This draft response is under review 
by Town Counsel. The complaint is also attached. FYI only, no discussion until our meeting 
next Wednesday. Thanks, Tom." 
e-mail on two occasions. 
FACTS 
1 Because Mr. Greenaway was the chair during the time period covered by this complaint, we refer to him in this 
letter as "Chair Greenaway." 
===PAGE 3===
Also on November 7, 2014, Mr. Hanis sent a letter to our office alleging various 
additional violations by the Committee. On November 8, 2014, Chair Greenaway forwarded Mr, 
Hanis' November 7, 2014 letter to all of the other Committee members with the message, 
"Another letter from our pen-pal." On November 10, 2014, Chair Greenaway sent another e-
mail to Town Counsel, with all members of the Committee copied. The text of the e-mail reads 
as follows: "My draft response to George's most-recent, attached letter for your review, Mark. 
George is pressing his September 30 Complaint. I would like to vote this response at our 
meeting on Wednesday night if possible. I would especially like your thoughts on the 
'reasonable showing' burden I discuss in the response. Thanks, Tom."2 Attached to this e-mail 
was a draft response to Mr. Hanis' November 7, 2014 letter. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
"deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [material] or the distribution 
of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." LI 
Here, Chair Greenaway's November 7 and 10, 2014 e-mails do not contain opinions. 
Instead, their purpose is to distribute documents for later discussion at a noticed meeting. The 
complaint alleges that it was improper for Chair Greenaway to disseminate the two letters written 
by him for review because they themselves contain opinions. However, we find that because the 
documents were distributed for the purpose of discussion at a future meeting, rather than for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion to the other Committee members, this did not violate the law. 
See OML 2015-77; OML 2013-17.3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
2 While the circumstances here do not rise to the level of an Open Meeting Law violation, we caution against any 
commentary when distributing documents for discussion at a meeting. Expressing a view on any topic within the 
Committee's jurisdiction, even in a fleeting way, has potential to run afoul of the law's requirements. See OML 
2014-25. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 4===
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George H. Harris 
Wayland Finance Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 