===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
March 1, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 25  
 
 
J. Raymond Miyares, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Miyares: 
This office received a complaint from Meaghan Carlotto on May 3, 2020, alleging that 
the Stockbridge Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 9, and you responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 27.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board improperly met in executive session sometime in February to approve the Housatonic Rest 
of River Settlement Agreement. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board met in executive session for a proper purpose but did not provide 
sufficient notice regarding the executive session topic.  At the outset, it is important to note that 
this decision is the result of an investigation solely into whether the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law, and has no bearing on the merits of the Housatonic Rest of River Settlement 
Agreement or whether it is good policy, issues which underlie the complaint. 
 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on 
February 4, as well as the Housatonic Rest of River Settlement Agreement and the February 6 
Statement from the Housatonic Rest of River Municipal Committee.   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In 1999, the Environmental Protection Agency, General 
Electric Company (“GE”) and the City of Pittsfield signed a settlement agreement to clean-up the 
former General Electric site in Pittsfield and the first two miles of the Housatonic River which 
had become contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).  In October 2013, the 
municipalities of Great Barrington, Lee, Lenox, Pittsfield, Sheffield and Stockbridge entered into 
an Intergovernmental Agreement to begin negotiations with GE regarding compensation for 
damages to the municipalities associated with the contamination and clean-up of the Housatonic 
River.  As part of the Intergovernmental Agreement, the municipalities created the Housatonic 
Rest of River Municipal Committee (the “Committee”) to advocate common clean-up goals for 
the remainder of the Housatonic River.  Each municipality appointed two representatives to the 
Committee.  The members of the Committee for the Town of Stockbridge included the Town 
Administrator and one member of the Board.2   
 
In 2016, the EPA issued a Rest of River clean-up plan requiring GE to ship all waste 
removed from the river out of state; GE appealed this plan. The EPA then initiated mediated 
negotiations between GE, the Committee and several other interested parties.  In January 2020, 
after years of litigation and a year of mediation, the Committee approved a settlement agreement 
with GE.3  However, the terms of the settlement agreement had to be separately approved by 
each of the five municipalities that were members of the Committee. 
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 4 at 4:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed four topics, including an executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss litigation if 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position.” 
 
The February 4 meeting was held as planned.  The Board convened in open session and 
discussed the noticed topics.  The Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene 
in executive session to discuss litigation and Chair Terry Flynn announced that the Board would 
not return to open session upon completion of the executive session.   
 
During the executive session, the Board reviewed the settlement agreement initially 
approved by the Commission.  The Board unanimously voted to approve the settlement 
agreement “regarding the removal and remediation of PCB contaminated sediments in the 
Housatonic River” and authorized Chair Flynn to sign and execute the agreement on behalf of 
the Town of Stockbridge.4   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
 
2 The Board is a three-member public body; thus two members constitute a quorum. 
3 The Environmental Protection Division of the Attorney General’s Office is aware of the settlement agreement and 
the outcome reached in the agreement but did not participate in the mediation between GE, the EPA and the 
Committee. 
4 We note that the Board has released the executive session minutes of the February 4 meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.   
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.5  Before entering the executive session, the 
chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).  This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice.  See OML 2016-72.   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A,   
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.  While we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion 
of such information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must 
be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged.  See OML 2015-14. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly met in executive session to “deliberat[e] 
and vot[e] on, mediation over litigation with” GE regarding clean-up of the Housatonic River.6 
Here, the Board met in executive session on February 4 and discussed a settlement agreement 
“regarding the removal and remediation of PCB contaminated sediments” by GE in the 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
6 The complaint also alleges that the settlement agreement discussed by the Board during the February 4 executive 
session “is an apparent conflict of interest.”  The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns 
compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if true, this allegation would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board 
of Commissioners); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).  We refer the 
complainant to the State Ethics Commission, which enforces the Commonwealth’s Conflict of Interest Law.  See 
OML 2013-54. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Housatonic River.  We find that the executive session discussions were appropriate under 
Purpose 3 because they related to pending litigation and a settlement agreement that was a 
proposed resolution to that litigation.  Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by meeting in executive session.  See OML 2017-180; OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43.  The 
Board was not required, as the complaint suggests, to announce or ratify the settlement 
agreement in open session where the Board convened in executive session under Purpose 3 and 
not under Purpose 9.  See OML 2018-70; see also Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 
Mass. 643, 647 (1982) (holding that closed door votes are permissible where a body meets in 
executive session to protect its litigating position).  Compare G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(9) (a public 
body may meet or confer with a mediator with respect to any litigation or decision on any public 
business within its jurisdiction involving another party, provided that no action shall be taken by 
any public body with respect to those issues which are the subject of the mediation without 
deliberation and approval for such action at an open session).  However, once an agreement has 
been executed, we recommend as best practice that the public body publicly announce the 
agreement in open session and describe the terms reached.  Ideally, this should occur either 
during the same meeting or at the public body’s next scheduled meeting.  See OML 2015-52; 
OML 2013-84.   
 
Finally, we find that the Board did not provide sufficient detail in its meeting notice and 
in its announcement prior to entering executive session with respect to the executive session 
topic.  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify 
the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for 
secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97.  Here, the Board provided the specific statutory 
citation of the executive session it planned to convene under, i.e. Purpose 3, and identified the 
matter as relating to litigation but did not identify the specific litigation matter.  The Board 
acknowledges that it could have identified the specific litigation matter it planned to discuss 
during the February 4 meeting on both the meeting notice and in the chair’s announcement 
preceding the executive session without compromising the purpose for the executive session.  
Because the Board has released the February 4 executive session meeting minutes, we order no 
additional relief.  See OML 2014-150.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by providing insufficient detail 
with respect to the executive session topic in both the meeting notice and the announcement by 
the chair preceding the February 4 executive session.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meaghan Carlotto – By email only:  
Stockbridge Select Board – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
