===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 17, 2020 
OML 2020 - 2
Mark Reich, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Reich:
This office received two complaints from Elizabeth Kovacs and Kara Leistyna on 
September 30, 2019, and November 27, 2019, respectively, alleging that the Health Select Board 
(the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on August 30 and September 9 and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated September 27.1 In their complaints, Ms. Kovacs and Ms. Leistyna 
allege that the Board met in executive session without a valid statutory purpose, and that the 
Chairman failed to announce why the session could not be held in open session before entering 
executive session.2
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding 
a discussion in executive session without a valid statutory purpose when it discussed terms of a 
lease of Town-owned property with a prospective lessee, but the remainder of the executive 
session was appropriate under Purpose 6. We find that the Chair made the required declaration 
that an open session would have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the Board 
before entering executive session and therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in 
that respect. Finally, we decline to find the violation to be intentional. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the two complaints, the public body’s response and the requests for 
further review. We also reviewed the August 27, September 5 and September 24 meeting 
notices. Finally, we reviewed meeting minutes from the August 27 open and executive sessions 
as well as open session minutes from September 5 and September 10.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 We decline to review additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included in the 
original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will 
address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML 
Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on August 
27.3 The notice included the following topic: “EXECUTIVE SESSION: to consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real estate.” On August 27, the Board met as planned at 6:00 p.m. At 
the beginning of the meeting, during the Public Comment portion, Ms. Leistyna asked the Board 
whether it intended to invite a prospective lessee into an executive session about the potential 
lease of a portion of a town building. When the Board responded in the affirmative, Ms. Leistyna 
attempted to persuade the Board that such a discussion would not be proper under the Open 
Meeting Law’s executive session Purpose 6. The Board’s Chair then asked the Town Clerk for 
clarification and the Town Clerk read the portion of the law that states: “if the chair declares that 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of [the Board]” and 
stated that the Chair would have to determine that. On this information, the Chair then 
announced that he believed a discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the 
position of the Board. The Board proceeded to discuss other topics in open session.
According to the Board’s meeting minutes, at around 8:30 p.m., a member of the Board 
moved to enter executive session “for reason #6, to consider and negotiate the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real estate and to reconvene in open meeting.” Although not noted in 
the minutes surrounding the motion to convene an executive session, the Board has assured our 
office that the Chair declared that an open session discussion would have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the Board. The Board then unanimously voted by roll call to enter 
executive session.
The executive session minutes from this meeting have been released to the public and 
therefore we recount the discussion that took place. The executive session was called to order at 
8:45 p.m., at which time the Board discussed a request to lease the preschool room in the former 
school building located at 18 Jacobs Road for 12 months. The Board then discussed what rental 
fee would be charge for the lease of the space. The Chair of the Heath Finance Committee was 
also present and raised concerns that the fee must be sufficiently high to cover all additional 
utility costs. In the end of the discussion, the Board agreed, and unanimously voted, that the 
Board would ask the potential lessee for a rental fee of $ 1,000.00 per month. The Board agreed 
that three additional terms would have to be agreed to by the lessee: 1) proof of liability 
insurance, 2) a snow removal agreement with the highway department, and 3) a written opt-out 
clause so that either party could termination the lease before it expired, but with due notice. The 
Board then unanimously voted by roll call to have the potential lessee join the meeting.
Around 9:10 p.m., the lessee joined the executive session. In addition to agreeing to all of 
the preceding terms, the lessee agreed to four more terms: 1) that the lessee would not use any 
other part of the building without permission from the Board, 2) the lessee would be responsible 
for cleaning the leased space, 3) internet phone service would be used for everyday use, but the 
school building’s phone could be used in an emergency, and 4) the hours of usage of the space
3 Although not addressed by the complaint, we take this opportunity to note that the Board has used a generic 
executive session item on its meeting notices, e.g. August 27 and September 5, which states: “Executive Session 
may be held as needed.” A general, standing executive session topic is not sufficiently specific to satisfy the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, because it does not provide any detail about what type of discussion will be 
had or what executive session purpose the session will be conducted under. See M.G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2019- 
92; OML 2013-164.
2

===PAGE 3===
would be approximately 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., including three mornings (9:00-1:00) of group 
usage. A Board member undertook to send a draft addendum with all of the agreed upon terms to 
Town Counsel and no vote was taken to officially approve the lease. The Board then 
unanimously voted by roll call to reconvene in open session. The executive session adjourned 
around 9:40 p.m.
On August 30, the Board received the first of the Open Meeting Law complaints 
regarding the August 27 executive session. At its September 5 meeting, the Board voted 
unanimously to approve and release the August 27 executive session minutes. On September 6, 
the use of the former school building located at 18 Jacobs Road was included on the Board’s 
meeting notice for its September 10 meeting. The Board discussed the property in open session 
and voted to enter into a license agreement with the prospective tenant for the use of the 
building, and included a new term, that either party could terminate the agreement with a 60-day 
notice to the other party.
DISCUSSION
I. The Portion of the August 27 Executive Session which the Prospective Lessee Attended
Lacked a Proper Executive Session Purpose.
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the.chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3).
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is Purpose 6, which allows a 
public body to enter into executive session “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value 
of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body.” Id. at §21(a)(6). Purpose 6 is intended to preserve 
confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to 
avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See District 
Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985). When 
representatives of the party the public body will be negotiating with, such as the seller’s attorney, 
are present, Purpose 6 is defeated because there is no need to enter executive session to establish 
a confidential negotiating position. See Allen v. Board of Selectmen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 720 
(2002); OML 2012-114.4
Here, the Board wished to discuss a request to lease a portion of a town building. In this 
situation, the Board was preparing to negotiate with the prospective lessee regarding the terms of 
such a lease and therefore had a negotiating position to protect to the extent that having the 
discussion in open session might give the lessee insight into what terms the Board would be 
willing to negotiate. For this reason, we find that the first portion of the August 27 executive 
session, in which the Board met with the Finance Committee Chair, without the prospective
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
3

===PAGE 4===
lessee present, was proper because the Board discussed both the rental fee and other terms that it 
wished to negotiate with the prospective lessee.
However, we find that the second part of the August 27 executive session, in which the 
prospective lessee was invited to join the session, was improper. Once the party that the Board 
was negotiating with joined the executive session, the Purpose 6 negotiating position was 
defeated because the lessee was a party to the discussion. At that point, the Board did not screen 
its deliberations from the prospective lessee and had no valid purpose for restricting public 
access to the deliberation in an executive session. For this reason, we find that the second part of 
the August 27 executive session was held without a proper purpose and the Board therefore 
violated the Open Meeting Law. Since the Board has already released to the public the executive 
session minutes from August 27 and held an open session on September 10 in which the lease 
was discussed, we order no further remedial action.
II. The Chair Made the Required Declaration that an Open Session Discussion Would Have
a Detrimental Effect on the Negotiating Position of the Board Before Entering Executive
Session Under Purpose 6.
The complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the Board 
did not sufficiently establish that having its discussion in open session would have a detrimental 
effect on its negotiating position before entering executive session. The Board responds that the 
Chair declared that an open session discussion would have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the Board, which is all that was required.5
The Board is correct. The same section of the Open Meeting Law that allows the public 
body to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property” requires the chair to 
declare “that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the 
public body.” Id. The public body is not required to establish at the meeting that holding the 
discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on its negotiating position. Rather, the 
chair is merely required under the Law to make a statement to that effect. See OML 2019-101; 
OML 2012-118. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.
III. We Decline to Find the Violation of the Open Meeting Law to be Intentional.
The complainants urge us to find that the Board intentionally violated the Open Meeting 
Law because Ms. Leistyna warned the Board during the Public Comment period that inviting a 
potential lessee into the executive session would be a violation of the Open Meeting Law. After 
the issue was raised, the Board’s Chair asked the Town Clerk for clarification and the Town 
Clerk read the applicable portion of the Law and stated that the Chair would have to determine 
whether holding the discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the Board. On this information, the Chair then announced that he believed 
a discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the 
Board.
5 Although not specifically required by the Open Meeting Law, we recommend, in order to create the clearest 
possible record, that public bodies include in meeting minutes a notation that the Chair has made any necessary 
declarations prior to entering executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).
4

===PAGE 5===
Therefore, notwithstanding Ms. Leistyna’s warning at the meeting, we find that the Chair 
paused to consider the issue, made an inquiry of the clerk, and believed that the executive session 
was proper under the Open Meeting Law. Even though the Chair was incorrect, on these facts we 
decline to find the Board’s violation of the Open Meeting Law to be intentional.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding a discussion in executive session for which there was no applicable executive session 
purpose. However, we find that the Chair made the required declaration that an open session 
would have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the Board before entering 
executive session and therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard.
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the 
Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Elizabeth Kovacs
Kara Leistyna 
Heath Select Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
