===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
December 24, 2012 
OML 2012 — 117 
Lauren Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Bernard Brahm, dated 
February 10, 2012, alleging that the Provincetown Historical District Commission (the 
"Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
specifically alleges that the Commission "held an unannounced 'Executive Session' on 
September 9, 2010," and that "[a]bsent from the public record is any evidence of any meeting at 
all, who might have attended, what might have been discussed, whether any vote was taken." 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Commission entered into executive session to discuss 
litigation strategy, but that the Commission "failed to establish that an open meeting on the 
matter would have a detrimental effect on their litigating position." The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on December 13, 2011. The Commission responded by 
letter, through counsel, on January 13, 2012. 
We find that Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on September 9, 2010.1  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the December 13, 
2011 complaint filed with the Commission; the Commission's January 13, 2012 response; and 
the February 10, 2012 complaint. We reviewed the notice and minutes of the Commission's 
September 10, 2010 open and executive session meetings. We also reviewed Kopelman and 
Paige's undated legal timesheets for its work for the Commission, provided to our office by the 
complainant. Finally, we reviewed a letter from the complainant, dated February 24, 2012. 
The Commission asks us to find that the complaint is untimely because it was filed more than 30 days after the 
alleged violation. We decline to the find the complaint untimely because the Commission did not publicly release 
the open session minutes of its September 9, 2010 meeting until after this complaint was filed, although notice of the 
September 9, 2010 meeting was timely posted. We believe that a member of the public could not reasonably have 
discovered the alleged violation until the public had access to both the open session minutes and the legal time 
sheets that are the basis of this complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The complainant sought the Commission's approval to add a widow's walk to the roof of 
his house. The Commission denied his request, and the complainant appealed to Barnstable 
Superior Court. The Commission posted notice for a meeting on September 9, 2010 to discuss 
litigation. The notice listed one topic: "Executive Session, MGL 39, §23B, Clause 3." 1  
According to the minutes of the Commission's September 9, 2010 meeting, the Commission 
convened an open meeting, and voted "to go into executive session for the purpose of discussing 
strategy pertaining to pending litigation because discussion in open session would impair the 
town's position and with the commission to adjourn." The Commission voted by roll call, and 
the motion passed unanimously. 
Because the litigation discussed is ongoing, and the executive session minutes of the 
Commission's September 9, 2010 meeting have not been publicly released, we cannot recount 
their content here. However, we reviewed the executive session minutes, in camera, and note 
that the Commission met with its counsel to discuss strategy with respect to pending litigation. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in 
addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays...Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time, place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonable anticipates will 
be discussing at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may enter executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes is Purpose 3, 
which states that a public body may enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3). A public body must take minutes of every meeting, "setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes shall be created 
and approved in a "timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
The complaint alleges that the Commission held an unannounced 'Executive Session' on 
September 9, 2010," and that laibsent from the public record is any evidence of any meeting at 
all, who might have attended, what might have been discussed, whether any vote was taken." 
From the evidence we reviewed, we believe that the Commission did in fact post notice of its 
executive session ahead of its September 9, 2010 meeting. We reviewed both the open and 
executive session minutes of the Commission's September 9, 2010 meeting, and find the minutes 
to be accurate and complete. We note that the minutes of the Commission's September 9, 2010 
open session were not created and approved in a timely manner, as they were released a year and 
a half after the meeting occurred. 
This statutory citation refers to an executive session purpose now found at G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint further alleges that the Commission "failed to establish that an open 
meeting on the matter would have a detrimental effect on their litigation position." Purpose 3 
allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). If the 
chair declares that holding an open meeting will have a detrimental effect on the litigating 
position of the public body, our office will generally defer to the chair and the public body's 
conclusion. A public body is not required to publicly establish that holding a meeting in open 
session would have a detrimental effect on its litigating position; the chair is just required to 
make the statement. Here, we reviewed the minutes of the Commission's September 9, 2010 
executive session, and find that the Commission's discussion with counsel regarding litigation 
strategy was entirely appropriate for executive session. Holding that discussion in open session 
would have had a detrimental effect on the Commission's litigating position. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on September 9, 2010, and find further that the Commission created accurate 
minutes of its September 9, 2010 open and executive sessions. We remind the Commission of its 
obligation to create and approve minutes of its meeting in a timely manner in accordance with 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
/  Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Bernard Brahm 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a public body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be 
filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 