===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.inass.gov/ago 
March 22, 2016 
OML 2016-40 
Anne Sterman 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Cambridge 
795 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02139 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sterman: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Kim Courtney and Xavier Dietrich on 
January 8, 2016, alleging that the Cambridge City Council (the Council) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on 
October 28, 2015, and City Clerk Donna Lopez responded on behalf of the Council by letter 
dated November 25, 201 5. In their complaint, Attorney Courtney and Mr. Dietrich allege that 
the Council's August 10, 2015 meeting minutes are inaccurate. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, 
and the complainants' request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the 
notice, the original and revised minutes, and a video-recording from the Council meeting held 
on August 10, 2015. 
We find the facts as follows. The Council held a meeting on August 10, 2015. The 
meeting began with a public comment period during which 36 individuals had the opportunity 
to speak. The complainants, who were among those 36 individuals, each read aloud a written 
statement to the Council. The minutes include a summary of each individual's statement. 
Attorney Courtney's statement concerned the taxicab industry, the functioning of 
Cambridge City Government, and the Cambridge Liquor License Commission. At one point 
in her statement. Attorney Courtney also asked the Council to replace certain City officials, at 
which time Councillor Tim Toomey interrupted and called for a point of order, stating that 
"no personal attacks are allowed in the chamber." The minutes describe this point of order as 
following Attorney Courtney's statements. Mr. Dietrich then followed with his statements 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
which were similar to those made by Attorney Courtney. Before Mr. Dietrich had finished his 
statement, Councillor E. Denise Simmons moved for a recess. According to the Council, 
because no Councillor objected to the motion, it carried. The microphone was shut off while 
Mr. Dietrich continued to read his statement. 
The minutes state that Mr. Dietrich spoke "in support of the taxicab industry... [and] 
argued that the current ordinance is clear and the City is failing to enforce the laws." The 
original minutes then state, "At this time Councillor Simmons moved for recess and on a 
voice vote the motion- carried." Upon the filing of this complaint, which contested the fact 
that the Council took no such vote, the Council revised this portion of the minutes as follows: 
"At this time Councillor Simmons moved for recess and hearing no objections the motion 
carried." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbrjdge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to 
"create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions 
on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made 
and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The law also requires that the "[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in 
a timely manner. 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the August 10, 2015 meeting are inaccurate. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that the minutes failed to include certain statements made 
by the complainants during the public comment period. Additionally, the complaint alleges 
that the minutes do not accurately reflect Councillor Toomey's point of order made during 
Attorney Courtney's statements and Councillor Simmons' motion to recess made during Mr. 
Dietrich's statements. When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and 
have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. 
We find that the Board substantially complied with the requirement to provide an 
accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of each discussion topic, including the 
complainants' statements. Although the minutes do not cover their every remark, they do 
offer a concise summary of their statements. While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55; see also OML 2016-
35 ("[sjimply attaching the statement does not meet the [public body's] obligation to 
summarize the discussion in its minutes."). Furthermore, in response to this complaint, the 
Council revised the minutes to more accurately describe the motion to recess made during Mr. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Dietrich's statement.1 We commend the Council for its remedial efforts. Accordingly, we 
find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
While we find that the August 10, 2015 minutes substantially comply with the Law's 
requirements of accuracy, we note that the minutes could have more accurately reflected the 
fact that the point of order and motion were made during the complainants' statements, rather 
than immediately following them. Lhe minutes could have also indicated the fact that the 
Council did not permit Mr. Dietrich to finish his statements on the record.2 The Council may 
wish to further revise the minutes in an effort to achieve complete accuracy of the events that 
occurred during the meeting. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you 
have any questions. 
cc: Kim Courtney, Esq. 
Xavier Dietrich 
Cambridge City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
1 The Council approved these revised minutes on December 7, 2015. 
2 We note that although the microphone was turned off during the recess, Mr. Dietrich finished reading his 
statement aloud at the podium. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 