===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 9, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 83   
 
 
Gordon R. Andrews  
Chairman, Halifax Planning Board 
499 Plymouth Street 
Halifax, MA 02338 
 
By e-mail only: Gordon.R.Andrews@halifax-ma.org 
 
RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Andrews: 
 
This office received a complaint from Charles Seelig on February 24, 2020, alleging that 
the Halifax Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 15, 2020, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 10, 2020.1 The complaint alleges that a quorum of 
the Board improperly deliberated by e-mail.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the complaint; the Board’s response; the request for further 
review filed with our office; and the minutes of the Board’s September 19, 2019, meeting.  
 
 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The 
Attorney General may grant an extension of time to respond to the complaint, but such request must be submitted 
within 14 business days after receiving the complaint. See 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). Here, the Board requested an 
extension on March 10, 2020, which was more than 14 business days after receiving the complaint. As such, the 
request was denied.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a six-member public body, thus four members 
constitute a quorum. On September 19, 2019, the Board held a public hearing regarding a Site 
Plan Modification for Amanda Estates, a twelve-unit, multifamily condominium complex on 
Elm Street in the Town of Halifax. Prior to the Board’s discussion on this topic, Board member 
Mark Millias announced that he had been asked to recuse himself from this discussion “because 
of a potential conflict.” The Board discussed whether to continue the hearing until after Mr. 
Millias received a determination from the State Ethics Commission on any potential conflict of 
interest. Board member Amy Troup inquired why the Board did not receive copies of the request 
for Mr. Millias’ recusal, and Theresa Renaud, former administrative assistant for the Board, 
informed her that the document was only for Mr. Millias. The Board ultimately decided to 
continue the hearing to September 25, 2019. 
 
On December 20, 2019, Ms. Troup sent an e-mail to the entire Board seeking   
information on the request for Mr. Millias’ recusal during the September 19, 2019, meeting. 
Specifically, her e-mail reads, in pertinent part, as follows: “[T]he minutes of September 19
th 
state that we are not to get a copy of a recuse request for Mark[.] Please explain why when I was 
asked to be recused; everyone on the Board received a copy of that? I can prove by emails that 
this happened.” Ms. Troup’s e-mail further asked why no action had been taken concerning her 
complaint against Ms. Renaud, specifically stating “I want something to be done. It was 
absolutely out of line. ‘[T]o be called a know it all’ while I asked tons of questions to make sure 
that I was aware of the consequences of my votes is quite interesting.” Finally, Ms. Troup 
requested a copy of a letter that was distributed to Board members as part of the December 19, 
2019, meeting packet and stated that failing to provide such a letter was “against open meeting 
law.”  
 
That same day, Board Chair Gordon R. Andrews responded to Ms. Troup’s e-mail and 
copied the entire Board. 2 His e-mail stated that he was looking into Ms. Troup’s complaint 
against Ms. Renaud. Specifically, he stated “After checking on things I believe the complaint 
should have been handled by the department head of which would be the chairman of the 
planning board so I am looking for the reason why this is not being done properly!” 
 
DISCUSSION  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
 
2 For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a quorum is generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board improperly deliberated by e-mail when 
Ms. Troup e-mailed the entire Board on December 20, 2019, and Mr. Andrews then responded. 
The Board acknowledges that the emails constituted communication between a quorum of the 
Board outside of a noticed meeting on matters within the jurisdiction of the Board. We agree and 
find that both Ms. Troup’s e-mail and Mr. Andrews’s response violated the Open Meeting Law 
where the communications involved a quorum of the Board and discussed matters that were 
pending before the Board and within its jurisdiction or involved the operation of the Board which 
is public business within the body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-3; OML 2014-
108.3 We commend the Board for acknowledging its error and its commitment to ensure future 
compliance. 
 
We do not find that portion of Ms. Troup’s e-mail in which she requested a copy of a 
letter to be improper deliberation. Deliberation does not include the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2015-69. Moreover, we do not find her statement in the 
e-mail that failing to provide a copy of the letter was “against open meeting law” to be 
deliberation as we will not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law where a public body 
member attempts to warn another public body member against violating the Open Meeting Law.4 
See OML 2018-6.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that a quorum of the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating via e-mail. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. In addition, we order the Board to publicly release the 
December 20, 2019, e-mails within 60 days of receipt of this determination, if it has not already 
done so.  The Board may publicly release the e-mails by reading their content during a meeting 
and listing the e-mails in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and 
posting the e-mails along with the minutes on the municipal website.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 We make no finding as to whether failing to provide a copy of the letter is a violation of the Open Meeting Law, as 
Ms. Troup asserts. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
Assisted by:  Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:       Charles Seelig – By e-mail only: cseelig@town.halifax.ma.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
