===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 156 
 
 
John McNaught 
Acting City Solicitor 
City of Malden 
Office of the City Solicitor 
215 Pleasant Street, 4th Floor 
Malden, MA 02148 
 
By email only: jmcnaught@cityofmalden.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McNaught: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on November 30, 2022, alleging 
that the Malden City Council (the “Council”), Parks and Recreation Committee, and the 
Committee on Technology and Policy violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on July 21, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Council, on September 21, following an extension of time granted by this office.
2  The 
complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a 
properly posted meeting and that Council President Craig Spadafora restricted an individual’s 
right to transmit the Parks and Recreation Committee meeting held on June 28. 
 
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Council President violated the Open Meeting Law by restricting an 
individual’s right to transmit the Parks and Recreation Committee meeting.  We find that the 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 Although the complaint names the Parks and Recreation Committee and Committee on Technology and Policy as 
having violated the Open Meeting Law, there does not appear to be any specific allegations listed in the complaint 
against the Parks and Recreation Committee or the Committee on Technology and Policy.  Complaints must allege 
violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations.  See OML 2016-57; OML 2012-106.  We therefore limit our review to the allegations 
against the Council. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Council’s amended response to 
the complaint.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Parks and Recreation Committee 
meeting held on June 28.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Both the Parks and Recreation Committee and Committee 
on Technology and Policy are subcommittees of the Council and each Committee contains three 
members.  The three members of the Parks and Recreation Committee – Karen Colon Hayes, 
Amanda Linehan, and Ryan O’Malley – are also members of the Committee on Technology and 
Policy and members of the Council.  The Council is an 11-member public body; thus, six 
members constitute a quorum.    
 
On March 28, Assistant City Solicitor Alicia McNeil issued a memorandum to Councilor 
Linehan, Chair of the Committee on Technology and Policy, regarding the state of the law on 
remote participation.  Council President Craig Spadafora was copied on the memorandum.
3  The 
memorandum suggested that, since the Council is conducting in-person meetings, the Council 
President determines whether “members may attend in-person or remotely” and if the Council 
holds in-person meetings that are open to the public, “it is not required to provide alternative 
means of remote access, and [Council President Spadafora] would determine whether it is 
permissible for alternative remote access.” (emphasis in original). 
 
On June
 23, the Parks and Recreation Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on June 28 at 5:45 P.M. and the notice stated that the “committee will meet to discuss goals and 
opportunities for improvements to parks and recreation in Malden.  The committee will discuss 
and reference the Open Space and Recreation Plan.”  The notice listed the location of the 
meeting as City Hall, Room #105, 215 Pleasant Street in Malden.   
 
On June 24, Parks and Recreation Committee Chair Ryan O’Malley posted on Facebook 
information necessary to access the June 28 meeting virtually via Zoom, including a link to the 
Zoom meeting (https://cityofmalden.zoom.us/j/91251837577), several telephone numbers the 
public could use to dial into the meeting, and the Webinar ID number required to log into the 
meeting.  On June 28 at 3:20 P.M., the City Council Clerk emailed to all City Councilors a letter 
from Council President Craig Spadafora reminding Councilors that “all requests for remote 
access to Council or Council Committee Meetings must be approved by the Council President.”  
The letter further stated that “a committee chair should never post a remote meeting link without 
obtaining the authorization of the President. . . . With this in mind, I have asked that the remote 
access link published on Facebook for tomorrow’s Parks & Recreation Committee [sic] be 
disabled.”   
 
The June 28 meeting was held as planned and Parks and Recreation Committee members 
were present in Room 105 of City Hall, the physical meeting location.  Because the remote link 
had been disabled, the meeting was initially not accessible via Zoom.  However, the Zoom link 
 
3 The complainant provided a copy of the memorandum to our office. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
was reactivated and members of the public could then access the meeting remotely.  About 15 
minutes later, the Zoom link was again disabled but Chair O’Malley obtained a new Zoom link 
(share.zoom.us), which was not associated with the City’s Zoom account, and posted this new 
link on Facebook, along with a new Webinar ID number and passcode.  Approximately 40 
minutes later, Council President Spadafora directed the new link to be disabled and the meeting 
was no longer remotely accessible.  During the meeting, the Parks and Recreation Committee 
discussed the open space and recreation plan that expires in 2024 and ways to maintain existing 
parks.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Council Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Properly Posted Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that President Spadafora deliberated by email by sending a letter to 
all Councilors regarding the use of remote participation.  On June 28, Council Clerk Lisa Cagno 
emailed a letter to all Councilors written by President Spadafora which explained the policy for 
remote participation.  Although the letter was sent to all Councilors, we do not find such 
communication to be deliberation as the letter simply memorialized advice from Assistant City 
Solicitor McNeil.  Attorney McNeil is not a member of the Council and is not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.  As such, Attorney McNeil could have circulated her memorandum to a 
quorum of the Council and such communication would not have constituted deliberation in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2022-231.
4  Further, we find that the letter from 
President Spadafora did not contain any of his own opinions on the use of remote participation 
and there is no evidence that any other Councilor responded to the letter or evidence of 
communications “between or among” a quorum of the Council outside of a posting meeting.  We 
recognize that it can be difficult to determine whether, under the circumstances, a given 
communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, and therefore our office 
specifically cautions public bodies on the use of electronic communications.  See OML 2017-88; 
OML 2014-80.  Although we do not find a violation here, we remind the Council that a public 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication among 
public body members on matters that the public body would otherwise be required to save for 
discussion at an open meeting.   
 
II. We Find that the Council President Violated the Open Meeting Law by 
Restricting an Individual’s Right to Transmit the Parks and Recreation 
Committee Meeting Held on June 28. 
 
The Open Meeting Law states that “[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).   
 
Here, the June 28 meeting of the Parks and Recreation Committee was held in person in 
Room 105 of City Hall, and this physical meeting location was accessible to any individual who 
wished to attend the meeting.  Chair O’Malley also tried to broadcast the meeting via Zoom but 
was unable to do so as the remote link had been disabled.  Thus, the complaint alleges that 
President Spadafora restricted the Park and Recreation Committee’s ability to transmit the 
Committee meeting held on June 28 by disabling the Zoom link.  Although the original Zoom 
link was reactivated and members of the public could then access the meeting remotely, that 
Zoom link was again disabled.  Chair O’Malley tried to stream the meeting via a new Zoom link 
and was able to do so for approximately 40 minutes until President Spadafora directed the new 
link to be disabled and the meeting was no longer virtually accessible.     
 
 The Council suggests that President Spadafora had the authority to determine whether 
mee
tings of the Parks and Recreation Committee may be broadcast virtually.   The Open 
Meeting Law Regulations allow “any person or entity with the authority to adopt remote 
participation” to enact “policies, law, rules or regulations that “prohibit or further restrict the use 
of remote participation by public bodies . . . .”  See 940 CMR 29.10(8).  This section of the Open 
Meeting Law Regulations controls the ability of Council members to participate in meetings 
remotely.  In the City of Malden, the Mayor may adopt remote participation and may restrict the 
use of remote participation for members of public bodies in the City, such as Council members.  
However, such policies must not impede the right of any person to record or transmit the 
meeting.  Rather, the Open Meeting Law specifically allows “any person” to transmit a meeting 
through any medium.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  Even if President Spadafora had the authority to 
restrict Parks and Recreation Committee Chair O’Malley’s use of the City’s Zoom account to 
broadcast the June 28 meeting, once Chair O’Malley set up a separate Zoom account not 
associated with the City to transmit the meeting, President Spadafora should not have directed 
that link to be disabled.  As such, we find that President Spadafora violated the Open Meeting 
Law by directing that the second Zoom link set up by Chair O’Malley to transmit the June 28 
meeting be disabled.  See OML 2019-67; OML 2018-57; OML 2015-199.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find an individual violation of the Open Meeting Law by 
Council President Spadafora when he directed that the Zoom link be disabled thus restricting an 
individual’s right to transmit a meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey – By email only:   
 Malden City Council – By email only: citycouncil@cityofmalden.org  
 Alicia McNeil, Acting City Solicitor – By email only: amcneil@cityofmalden.org 
 Malden City Clerk – By email only: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
