===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 30, 2016 
OML 2016-46 
Micliele Randazzo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Gwenn Dyson on January 19, 2016, alleging 
that the Sandwich Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L, c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 23, 
2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated November 
9, 2015. In her complaint, Ms. Dyson alleges that the Board improperly convened in 
executive session on October 22, 2015. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice of, and open and executive session minutes from, the Board's October 22, 
2015 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on March 17, 2016. 
We find the facts as follows. On October 22, 2015, the Board held a meeting, in part, 
to convene an executive session to discuss the status of the South Sandwich Village Center 
development project. On December 18, 2014, the Town had executed a Purchase and Sales 
Agreement (the Agreement) agreeing to sell certain Town land development into a mixed-use 
project. The Agreement specifies that the closing is contingent upon the completion of certain 
factors set forth in section 20 of the Agreement, which include the buyer obtaining financing 
and securing the necessary permits for the development of the property. The Agreement 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
states that the closing will be no later than eighteen months from the date of the Agreement 
(December 18, 2014) unless the parties agree to an extension. 
The meeting notice, timely posted on October 20, 2015, listed the following topic: 
"Executive Session- M.G.L. C.30A, §21(a)... Purpose #6: Disposition of Real Property- Town 
SSVC RFP & Compliance with Terms of Purchase & Sales Agreement." Prior to the 
executive session, the Board approved a vote by roll call to convene in executive session and 
stated the same purpose as on the notice. The Board Chair also declared that having this 
discussion in open session "would have a detrimental effect upon the Town's...negotiating 
position." During the executive session discussion on this topic, the Board discussed the 
status of the project and did not take any votes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. ofWayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school Board 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper."). This level of detail about the executive session topic 
should also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b). One puipose for 
executive session is "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if 
the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)(6) (Purpose 6). 
The complainant challenges the Board's reliance on Puipose 6 to discuss the South 
Sandwich Village Center project because the Agreement has already been executed and thus, 
the Board no longer had a negotiating position to protect. Generally, we have said that, where 
all of the terms of a Purchase and Sales Agreement have been agreed on, a public body's use 
of Puipose 6 expires because the negotiation is complete. See OML 2012-52; OML 2014-
36.1 In this instance, however, the executed Agreement included contingencies that the 
parties were in the process of re-negotiating. When and if the contingencies are satisfied 
and/or the negotiations conclude, the transaction will be completed and the Board may no 
longer use Purpose 6 to discuss the property in executive session. Because the Board had an 
ongoing negotiation position to protect during its October 22, 2015 meeting, we find that the 
Board properly entered executive session under Purpose 6 after the Chair's declared that 
holding the discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the Board's 
negotiating position. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
' Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gwenn Dyson 
Sandwich Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 