===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass .gov/ago 
January 15, 2015 
OML 2015-1 
David Gagne 
Town Administrator 
65 North Main Street 
West Bridgewater, MA 02379 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Gagne: 
This office received a complaint from John Michael Dupuis, Esq., dated October 30, 
2014, alleging that the West Bridgewater Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. In his complaint, Attorney Dupuis alleges that the Board 
entered into executive session for an improper purpose during its September 17, 2014 meeting. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 29, 2014. The Board responded 
by letter dated October 21, 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed 
the notice for, and open and executive session minutes of, the Board's September 17, 2014 
meeting. Finally, we reviewed a letter from the Board's attorney addressed to our office, dated 
November 18, 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts are as follows. Robert Piepiora was employed by the Town of West 
Bridgewater as an Intermittent Police Officer, though is no longer. On August 28, 2011, he was 
working a detail when an incident occurred that resulted in Officer Piepiora's arrest of William 
Ortiz. On August 13, 2013, the Town received a copy of a lawsuit filed in federal district court, 
William Ortiz v. Robert J. Piepiora, et al., alleging false arrest, excessive force, and violation of 
civil rights. The lawsuit did not name the Town as a party. The Town contacted its insurance 
agent regarding coverage as a result of the incident and pending lawsuit. On August 21, 2013, 
the Town's insurance company addressed a letter to the Town Administrator stating that "it 
appears that defense and indemnity are afforded to the named defendant [Officer Piepiora]" 
under the Town's policy. 
===PAGE 2===
On August 13, 2014, following a settlement agreement between Officer Piepiora and Mr. 
Ortiz, the parties filed a joint stipulation of dismissal. The Board held a meeting that same day. 
During that meeting, the Board entered into executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3") to discuss whether the Board should consent to the settlement agreement. The 
Board understood its consent to be required because the Town's insurance carrier had agreed to 
defend Officer Piepiora and to indemnify him in the event of a settlement or judgment against 
him. During this meeting, the Board decided that it could not make a decision on the settlement 
agreement without more advice and requested that the Board's counsel and insurance agents 
attend an upcoming meeting to provide guidance to the Board. 
The notice for the Board's September 17, 2014 meeting listed an executive session topic 
as, "Exemption 3 strategy with respect to Litigation: 1.) William Ortiz v. Robert Piepiora." 
During the meeting, the Board entered into executive session, citing the purpose identified in the 
meeting notice. Once in executive session, counsel for Officer Piepiora discussed the details of 
the case and stated that the Officer and the plaintiff and agreed to the settlement. The Board then 
discussed its legal exposure if it did not consent to the settlement. Additionally, the Board 
learned that its insurance carrier might decline further coverage if the Board did not consent to 
the settlement. Based on this advice, the Board agreed to consent to the settlement. The Board 
ratified this vote in open session during its October 1, 2014 meeting. The Board publicly 
released the minutes of its September 17, 2014 executive session on October 15, 2014. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive session for an improper 
purpose on September 17, 2014. The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter into 
executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The public body 
may address only a narrow range of subjects related to the cited purpose(s) when in executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A. § 21: see District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (using executive session as a blanket reason to 
deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to cited enumerated purpose is impermissible). 
Among the ten purposes is Purpose 3, which allows a public body to enter into executive session 
to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to 
invoke executive session Purpose 3. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently 
threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perrvman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 
Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-5.1 
A public body may lawfully discuss matters relating to its litigating position in a closed 
session even where the Board is not a party to a lawsuit. Collins v. Wayland Bd. of Selectmen. 
2013 WL 2456337, 1 (Mass. Super., 2013). For example, it may use the litigation purpose for 
executive session where it reasonably expects it may be sued on a particular action or issue, or to 
discuss potential positions that it may take in ongoing litigation to which it is not a party. Id. 
' Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/oDenmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
But the fact that some town entity or official is involved in litigation does not give the public 
body license to discuss matters not affecting the public body's own litigating positions out of 
public view. Id. 
Here, while the Board was not a named defendant in the pending lawsuit, it nevertheless 
had a litigating position to protect. The officer being sued was an employee of the Town. 
Through an insurance policy, the Board provided the officer with defense and indemnification. 
Therefore, it played a role in consenting to the settlement. The attorney retained by the Town's 
insurance carrier to represent the officer had negotiated a settlement with the plaintiff and 
presented that settlement to the Board in executive session. Although the Board was not a 
named party in the litigation, the Board indemnified the officer because the incident had 
occurred while the officer was arguably acting within the scope of his employment as a Town 
police officer. Thus, the Board was financially responsible for the outcome. Holding the 
settlement discussion in open session would have been detrimental to the Board's litigating 
position as the indemnifying party. Because of the Board's role indemnifying the officer, it was 
appropriate to invoke Purpose 3 to enter into executive session to discuss, and consent to, the 
proposed settlement. 
The complainant notes that, after Officer Piepiora and Mr. Ortiz reached a settlement 
agreement, the federal court dismissed the case on August 13, 2014—more than a month before 
the Board's September 17, 2014 executive session. While this is true, the Board still had a 
litigating position to protect as it considered whether to authorize the settlement. Even though 
the case had been dismissed, blocking the settlement would have created legal consequences 
with respect to that litigation and potential litigation were the Town to be sued in a subsequent 
action. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: West Bridgewater Board of Selectmen 
John Michael Dupuis, Esq. 
David T. Gay, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 