===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 12, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 158 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Michael A. Bergeron, Esq. 
Reservitz Bergeron & Associates 
25 Rockwood Road, 2
nd Floor 
Marshfield, MA 02050 
 
michael@rblawma.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Bergeron:  
 
This office received two complaints from Attorney Margaret Sheehan on behalf of 
Community Land and Water Coalition / Save the Pine Barrens on August 1, 2023, alleging that 
the Plymouth Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaints originally were filed with the Board on May 15, 2023.  You responded to these 
complaints on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 16.1  The complaints allege that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law: (1) by failing to announce that it had met in executive 
session upon return to open session on March 28; (2) by failing to create and approve minutes of 
its March 28 meeting in a timely manner; (3) by meeting in executive session on March 28 
without a proper purpose; (4) by failing to properly post notice of the March 28 meeting “on the 
Board section of the website;” and (5) by posting insufficiently specific notice of its May 16 
executive session topic.2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
revi
ew, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to create and 
approve minutes in a timely manner.  We do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, the 
Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review.  We also 
communicated by email with you and Attorney Kate McKay.  Finally, we reviewed the notices 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.  
2 The complainant also raised this last allegation in a complaint dated August 25, 2023.  When we reviewed the 
August 25 complaint, we declined to review this allegation because it was untimely.  See OML 2024-67. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and minutes of the March 28 and May 16 meetings, and watched a recording of the March 28 
meeting.3    
 
FACTS 
 
 On March 24, notice  of the March 28 meeting was posted to the Town of Plymouth’s 
official posting location, www.plymouth-ma.gov.  That site prominently displays an icon labeled 
“Agendas & Minutes,” which, when selected, displays a list of public bodies and dates.  Two 
more clicks (one to select the public body; the other to select the date) are required to reach the 
desired meeting notice of any public body.   
 
The notice of the March 28 meeting listed the first of three executive session topics as 
follows: 
 
The Select Board will hold an Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 30A, Section 21(a), clause 6, to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body and the chair so declares.  
 
❖ 158 Center Hill Road 
 
The Board met on March 28, convening first in open session to complete the procedural 
requirements to enter executive session.4  The executive session that followed was 
approximately 90 minutes long but the Board did not complete its discussion of the three 
executive session topics.  Therefore, at approximately 6:00 p.m., the Board returned to open 
session.  At the conclusion of the open session, which lasted approximately one hour and 48 
minutes, the chair, Betty Cavacco, announced simply: “We will be adjourning from open session 
and going back into executive session.  So, do I have a motion?”  In response, another member 
said “Motion.”  A third member seconded.  Chair Cavacco did not call for a roll call but asked 
“All those in favor?”  She then announced “It’s unanimous.  See you in a couple weeks, folks.”  
Minutes of the March 28 open session were approved on August 22, the eighteenth meeting after 
March 28.  The minutes incorrectly state that a roll call vote was taken prior to re-entering 
executive session.  The minutes also inaccurately state that the vote included a representation 
that the Board would not return to Open Session at the conclusion of the Executive Session.   
Minutes of the March 28 executive session were approved on or about September 5.   
 
Notice of the May 16 meeting included the following language: 
 
The Select Board will hold an Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 30A, Section 21(a), clause 6, to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
 
3 The recording can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uLW0s5P-QwU.  
4 The recording does not capture the initial open session at 4:30.  However, based upon the information available to 
us,  including our communication with Attorney Bergeron who attended the March 28 executive session, we are 
satisfied that the Board first met in open session prior to convening in executive session. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body. Following Executive Session, the 
Board will reconvene in open session.  
 
 ❖ 30 Town Wharf (Lease)** 
 
During the May 16 executive session, the Board discussed an extension of the lease at 30 
Town Wharf.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review the allegation that the Board failed to announce that it had 
met in executive session upon return to open session on March 28. 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We decline to review allegations that the Board failed to make an open session 
announcement that it had met in executive session.  Even if true, such an omission would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, as the Law does not require upon returning to 
open session that a public body announce that it met in executive session.5  Here, the meeting 
notice made clear that the Board would convene its meeting in open session at 4:30 p.m., then 
enter executive session to discuss the listed topics, and then return to open session at 6:00 p.m.   
 
II. The Board failed to create and approve minutes of its March 28 meeting in a 
timely manner. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that “[m]inutes of all 
open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” while requiring that minutes of 
executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether continued 
nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  “Timely manner,” for 
purposes of approval of open session meeting minutes, means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2023-179; OML 2018-48.  Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2023-179; 
OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  Minutes of the open session of the March 28 meeting were 
approved on September 5, more than 30 days and more than three meetings after the March 28 
 
5 Although not raised by Attorney Sheehan, we note that when the Board voted to return to executive session at 
approximately 7:48 p.m. on March 28, the Board neither stated the purpose pursuant to  which it was convening in 
executive session nor voted by roll call to return to executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b) (“A public body 
may meet in closed session for 1 or more of the purposes enumerated in subsection (a) provided that. . . a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session and the vote of each member is recorded by roll call 
and entered into the minutes;”).  Of particular concern are the minutes of March 28, which inaccurately reflect a roll 
call vote.  The Board is reminded to follow the procedures outlined in c. 30A, § 21(b) when it enters executive 
session, and to accurately record in the minutes the voting procedure that was actually used, not the voting 
procedure that should have been used, pursuant to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting.  Therefore, the minutes were not approved timely, in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
The complainant does not distinguish between minutes of the open session and minutes 
of the
 executive session of March 28.  To the extent that the complainant alleges that minutes of 
the executive session of March 28 were not approved in a timely manner, we note that we do not 
require that a public body approve executive session minutes within three meetings or 30 days, 
only that they be “create[d] and maintain[ed]” and “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to 
determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (g)(1).  See also 
OML 2024-29; Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 
2173CV00906 (Bristol Sup. Ct. December 27, 2023).6   
 
III. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it relied on Purpose 6 to 
discuss 158 Center Hill Rd. in executive session on March 28. 
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  
When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
Dist. Att’y for N.W. Dist. v. Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981).  
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body may meet in executive session “6. To consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body;” (“Purpose 6”).  
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).   
 
Executive session purposes are narrowly construed.  The public body bears the burden of 
demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose.  See District Attorney for 
the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009).  Discussions under 
Purpose 6 must relate directly to the purchase, lease, exchange, or value of real property where 
confidentiality is necessary to protect a public body’s negotiating position.  See OML 2022-119; 
OML 2021-62.  The proper application of Purpose 6 is to protect a public body’s negotiating 
position vis-a-vis other parties to a transaction, not to escape the inconvenience of public 
scrutiny or opposition.  See OML 2023-241; OML 2023-81.  General discussions regarding real 
property or the use of real property, where there is no negotiating position to protect, do not fall 
within Purpose 6.  See OML 2023-81; OML 2019-59 (discussion of conservation restrictions do 
not fall within Purpose 6 where there is no negotiating position to protect and the discussion does 
not relate to the purchase, exchange, lease or value of property); OML 2012-98 (“Potential uses 
for land and whether or not to go ahead with a project are not proper discussions under Purpose 
6.”).   
 
In a prior determination, we addre
 ssed Attorney Sheehan’s allegation concerning the 
Board’s July 25 executive session under Purpose 6 to discuss the lease of 158 Center Hill Rd.  
See 2024-67.  We found no violation.  Similarly, here, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law when it discussed 158 Center Hill Rd. in executive session under Purpose 6.  The 
Board had learned that Attorney Sheehan had been using the property as a professional address 
 
6 The Board’s review of executive session minutes at reasonable intervals is the subject of other complaints Attorney 
Sheehan has filed with the Board.  See OML 2024-67. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
and was discussing whether such a use constituted a default under the terms of the lease.  Under 
the circumstances, it was appropriate to meet in executive session under Purpose 6. 
 
IV. Notice of the March 28 meeting was posted in accordance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  
 
It is appropriate at this p oint to address the Board’s argument that the complaint, filed on 
May 15, is not timely as concerns allegations regarding the March 28 meeting.  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a complaint be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could not have been known at 
the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  
Deficiencies in notice generally are reasonably discoverable at the time the notice is posted or at 
the time of the meeting.  See OML 2020-14; OML 2019-92; OML 2014-124; OML Declination 
10-9-2012 (Templeton Municipal Light and Water Plant Board of Commissioners).  Here, 
however, the alleged deficiency in notice does not concern the content of the notice, but rather 
whether the notice was posted in a place which would adequately apprise the public of the 
upcoming meeting, in essence, whether it was conspicuously visible online.  If the notice was 
posted in the wrong place, members of the public might never learn of the meeting, especially 
where minutes were not approved in a timely manner.  Under such circumstances, the violation 
may not be reasonably discoverable at the time the notice was posted, or even at the time of the 
meeting.  Therefore, we find this allegation timely. 
 
For local public bodies, notice must be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public
 at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(c).  However, a municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting 
location for all public bodies within the municipality.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  A municipality 
may only have one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its website as its notice 
posting location, then that is the official location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  940 
CMR 29.03(2).  We look to the official notice posting location to determine whether a public 
body has complied with the Law. See OML 2024-61; OML 2021-18. 
 
If a municipality adopts its municipal website as the official method of notice posting, 
that website should include a page where all public body meeting notices can be located so that 
members of the public can easily access notices.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.03(2)(b); OML 2022-210; 
OML 2020-39; OML 2018-53.  A meeting notice need not be viewable directly on the main page 
of the designated posting website; it needs to be readily accessible from that page in a clear and 
intuitive location.  See OML 2024-28; OML 2020-73.  Cf. OML 2018-53 (notices posted to City 
website were not easily located as a “Notice” tab within the “Open Meetings Portal” did not 
contain any notices; “Meetings” tab contained the calendar for all meetings, and sometimes 
included a link to the public body's agenda).  To avoid confusion and the potential for differing 
versions of notices, our office discourages the posting of notices in multiple locations, unless 
they are linked to the same page.  See OML 2020-73.   
 
Notices of all public meetings in the Town of Plymouth, including the Board’s March 28 
meeting, can be readily accessed via the town’s municipal website, www.plymouth-ma.gov.  The 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Town directs interested parties from the main website to the notices page (the “agenda center”) 
through a prominent, easily found link to “Agendas & Minutes.”  From the agenda center, it 
requires only two clicks to select the public body and date of interest.  Access to the meeting 
notice through the agenda center, as described above, satisfies the Open Meeting Law. 
 
V. Notice of the May 16 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
 We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2024-67; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22. 
 
When posting notice of an anticipated Purpose 6 discussion, the executive session topic 
should include a sufficient description of the anticipated executive session, such as the statutory 
citation to the specific executive session purpose relied on and/or the language used in the 
statute, along with information about the specific property to be discussed, if such disclosure 
does not compromise the Board’s negotiating position.  See OML 2024-67; OML 2016-94; OML 
2016-5.  A public body must disclose some descriptive information about the real property to be 
discussed unless disclosure of this information would compromise the purpose for the executive 
session.  See OML 2024-67; OML 2018-73. 
 
 The notice of the May 16 meeting listed the reason for entering executive session under 
Purpos
e 6 as “30 Town Wharf (Lease).”  This description of the Board’s anticipated Purpose 6 
discussion satisfied the Open Meeting Law.  We have had multiple occasions to review 
allegations of insufficient notice, which Attorney Sheehan has filed with the Board.  In one case, 
we found that the notice description “Holtec (Value of Real Property)” fell short of the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-67.  In another matter, although a 
“close question,” we found that “1000 acres” sufficiently identified the properties to be discussed 
in executive session under Purpose 6, based upon the totality of the information.  See OML 
2023-136.  Here, the description “30 Town Wharf (Lease),” in the context of a proper executive 
session under Purpose 6, satisfied the Open Meeting Law.  We find no violation as alleged 
relative to the May 16 meeting notice. 
 
VI. The failure to approve minutes did not constitute an intentional violation. 
 
Finally, we must decide whether the Board’s violations were, as the complainant urges, 
intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  Where a public body repeatedly violates the Open Meeting Law through 
similar conduct but was not placed on notice through a prior determination or otherwise that its 
action was noncompliant, the recurrence will not be grounds for a finding of intent.  See OML 
2022-63; OML 2017-43. 
   
As alluded to elsewhere herein, we have h ad the opportunity to issue several 
determinations in response to complaints filed with the Board in the last eighteen months.  In at 
least one of those determinations, we found that the Board had violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to approve minutes in a timely manner.  However, as those determinations were issued 
after March 28, we do not find that the Board acted intentionally in delaying approval of the 
minutes of the March 28 meeting.  We remind the Board, however, as we did in OML 2024-67, 
that it should not discount a violation just because it is found not to be intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create minutes of the March 28 meeting in a timely manner.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We caution that a future finding 
of an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law on any of the grounds cited herein may 
result in a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation.     
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Mat
thew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Community Land & Water Coalition/Save the Pine Barrens (via email: 
)  
 Plymouth Town Ma nager (via email: dbrindisi@plymouth-ma.gov) 
  Plymouth Town Clerk (via email: kmcelreath@plymouth-ma.gov) 
Plymout
h Select Board (via email: selectmen@plymouth-ma.gov) 
  

===PAGE 8===
8 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  