===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 12, 2018 
OML 2018-52 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on December 20, alleging that 
the Ashland Finance Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
December 11, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, in a letter 
dated December 20. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Committee improperly 
communicated by email. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the email at issue. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 8, the complainant sent an email to the 
Committee, copying Town Counsel, regarding its notice of an upcoming meeting that he 
deemed insufficiently detailed. Committee Chair Adam Elbirt, PhD., responded to this email, 
copying the Committee, Town Counsel and the Town Manager. In the email, Dr. Elbirt 
guided the complainant step-by-step to the online meeting notice which, he stated, is in "full 
compliance with OML requirements." The email continued, "Should you have any finance-
related questions, please don't hesitate to send them to the Finance Committee...[s]hould you 
have any further threats or libelous statements to make, please direct them to Town Counsel 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
so that we may continue to document your abusive behavior and purposeful waste of Town 
Resources[.]" 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
"deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
The complaint alleges that Dr. Elbirt's email was an improper deliberation in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. The Committee responded that Dr. Elbirt's email was in response 
to the complainant's email to the entire Committee and that he "inadvertently chose the 'reply 
all' option in responding." Regardless of whether the "reply all" was purposeful, the content 
of the email was not deliberation as it did not concern the business of the Committee, but was 
instead a conflict between Dr. Elbirt and the complainant, who is a member of the public. 
The Open Meeting Law is concerned with prohibiting private communications among public 
body members regarding public business. See Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978) (the Open Meeting Law's purpose is "to eliminate 
much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is 
based"). It is not a tool for resolving personal conflicts between individuals. Dr. Elbirt's 
email in response to the complainant does not raise a concern that the Committee was 
discussing public business over email, rather it reflected his frustration with a member of the 
public who files many complaints. Although we decline to find a violation, we caution the 
Committee on the use of electronic communications except when sharing scheduling or 
procedural information, or distributing documents or reports to be discussed at a meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2014-80; OML 2017-88.2 In the future. Committee members would 
be better served not to "reply-all" when responding to emails sent to the Committee as a 
whole. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Finance Committee 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 