===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 13, 2017 
OML 2017-38 
Gregg J. Corbo 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Jeanne Golrick, dated December 12, 2016, alleging 
that the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 3, 2016, and the 
Board responded by letter dated November 22, 2016. In her complaint, Ms. Golrick alleges that 
the Board created a subcommittee that did not comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a Board 
meeting held on November 1, 2016, and we reviewed a supplementary e-mail from the Board's 
legal counsel dated February 28, 2017.' 
We find the facts as follows. On May 7, 2016, Montague Town Meeting voted to 
authorize the Board to convey a piece of property that had been seized for non-payment of taxes. 
Following this vote, the Town Administrator created a request for proposals ("RFP"). The RFP 
contained the following language: "Proposals will be evaluated by a selection committee 
consisting of selected Montague town staff (Town Administrator, Town Planner and Building 
Inspector)." This language was included in the RFP by the Town Administrator, whose job 
description states that he will act as the town's chief procurement officer. 
By the RFP deadline, only one qualifying proposal had been received. The selection 
committee, consisting of the Town Administrator, Town Planner and Building Inspector, met 
once to consider the proposal. During a November 1, 2016 Board meeting, the Town Planner 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
addressed the Board, stating that the "staff review team" recommended that the Board accept the 
proposal. Ultimately, the Board voted to accept the proposal. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Supreme Judicial 
Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law in Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public 
official creates a committee to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the sole 
authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the selection committee consisting of the Town 
Administrator, Town Planner, and Building Inspector was a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law because the Board voted outside of a noticed meeting to create it. As evidence, the 
complaint points to the fact that Town Meeting authorized the Board to dispose of the property at 
issue. Because of this delegation, the complaint alleges, any selection committee that reviewed 
proposals would need to be created by the Board. We take no position on the allocation of 
powers within town government, but we note that the Town Administrator acts as Montague's 
chief procurement officer. In any event, the Board denies that it created the selection committee, 
and, absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts. See OML 
2015-59.2 Accordingly, we find that the Town Administrator created the selection committee to 
assist him with the task of evaluating proposals. Because the selection committee was therefore 
created by an individual public official to advise that official on a matter he had sole authority to 
decide, we find that it falls within the Connelly exception and is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. Based on the foregoing, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
at 235. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www,mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Montague Board of Selectmen 
Jeanne Golrick 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 