===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 21, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 170 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kimberly Roche, Esq.  
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, Massachusetts 01085 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Roche: 
This Office received a complaint from Kevin McAllister on October 5, 2020, alleging 
that the South Hadley School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 20, and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated September 1.1 In his complaint, Mr. 
McAllister alleges the Committee’s chair negotiated with the School Superintendent and a 
teacher’s union representative outside of a public meeting regarding a memorandum of 
understanding.2 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Committee circulated a survey on remote learning to the community after the 
negotiations regarding the memorandum of understanding had already commenced. We note that, even if true, this 
allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. The expression of an opinion by one 
public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is 
considered a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; 
OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.3  
 Here, in response to his public records request, Mr. McAllister received copies of emails 
which had been sent between a teacher’s union representative, the School Superintendent and the 
Committee’s Chair, regarding the South Hadley Schools’ plan for remote instruction in the fall. 
Mr. McAllister does not allege that a quorum of the Committee was included on any of these 
emails, and the Committee denies that any of the emails reached a quorum.4 For the purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. As the Committee has five members, three members constitute a quorum. The 
Chair of the Committee may discuss a matter of public business within the Committee’s 
jurisdiction outside of a posted meeting with the School Superintendent and a union 
representative, because those communications do not involve a quorum of a pubic body. 
Individual public officials, such as the School Superintendent, who are not members of a public 
body are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-150; OML 2012-28. For these 
reasons, we find that the Committee did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting, and find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Kevin McAllister (via e-mail: ) 
 South Hadley School Committee c/o Chairperson Kyle Belanger (via e-mail: 
  ) 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 We sent an email to Mr. McAllister on December 9 to confirm that none of the emails he received in response to 
his public records request were among a quorum of the Committee and did not receive a response.  

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 