===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 18, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 246 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
JCollins@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Collins: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lieutenant Lisa Sullivan on December 12, 2024,
1 
alleging that the Sutton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 6, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 11. The complaint alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed Lt. Sullivan’s job performance and 
complaints brought against her in open session rather than executive session. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the July 16 notice, approved July 16 minutes, and video 
of the July 16 meeting.2 
 
The Complainant, a Lieutenant with the Sutton Police Department who was being 
considered for promotion to Police Chief, alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed her job performance, complaints about her, and a “no confidence vote” by the 
Sutton’s Sergeant’s and Patrolman’s Association, in an open session instead of in Executive 
Session. We disagree. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy  surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law states that a public body may 
meet in executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) (emphasis 
added). One such purpose, Purpose 1, 3 allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
discuss “the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
changes brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” Id. at 
§ 21(a)(1). However, the Open Meeting Law never requires that a public body discuss any matter 
in executive session, even if it would be permissible to do so. See OML 2022-162; OML 2021-
40; OML 2011-40, OML 2013-19.4 
 
Although a public body 
 may choose to discuss an individual’s reputation or character or 
complaints about an individual behind closed doors, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting 
Law that such a discussion occur in executive session, and the subject of the discussion has no 
right under the Open Meeting Law to demand an executive session. See OML 2012-32. 
Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing matters in open 
session that may have been appropriate for executive session. 
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sutton Select Board, Chair David Hall  (via email: d.hall@town.sutton.ma.us)  
Sutton Select Board, Vice Chair Jesse Limanek (via email: j.smith@town.sutton.ma.us) 
Lieutenant Lisa Sullivan (via email: ) 
Sutton Town Clerk (via email: l.caruso@town.sutton.ma.us) 
 
 
3 Purpose 1 allows a public body to enter a closed executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a police officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. 
c. 30A §21(a)(1) 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 