===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 21, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 169 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jesse Belcher-Timme, Esq.  
Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury & Murphy P.C. 
One Monarch Place, Suite 1900  
Springfield, MA 01144 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Belcher-Timme: 
This Office received two complaints from Mark Albano on August 24, 2020, and 
December 8, 2020, alleging that the East Longmeadow Conservation Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Commission on June 8 and October 8, respectively. You responded on 
behalf of the Commission by letters dated June 25 and October 29.1 In his complaints, Attorney 
Albano alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting via email. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to 
the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We also reviewed the emails 
which are the subjects of the complaints.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a seven-member public body, thus a 
quorum is four members. On May 27, the Commission held a meeting at which it discussed 
“WPA Enforcement Order #1: Hidden Ponds Estates Lots 19-20 (Mass DEP 150-0447) for 
violation by Al Joyce, Rose-Bud Builders, P.O. Box 79, East Longmeadow, MA 01028 for 
removal of twelve (12) trees larger than 1-1/2’’ diameter outside the Limit of Work line and 
inadequate erosion controls.” The matter was continued for further discussion at the 
subsequently scheduled June 10 meeting. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On May 28, Craig Jernstrom, Chair of the Commission, sent an email to Bethany Yeo 
(Acting Director of Planning and Community Development for the Town), Jeffrey Bosworth, 
Thomas O’Brien, Frances Corgnati, Erin Lynch (members of the Commission), and Mr. Joyce 
(subject of the hearing/complainant). In the email, Chair Jernstrom stated:  
To all, I was incorrect in stating that the street for zone was in lots 19&20, and 11 
and others were in the 100’ buffer zone. They are not. I apologize. However, based 
on my closer review if plans, [sic] The storm drains to the east of the basin are in 
the 100’ buffer zone from lot 15. Craig. 
None of the recipients responded. The Commission discussed this matter at its next meeting on 
June 10.  
 
 On September 8, in response to a complaint received by the Planning Department 
alleging possible tree removal within the 25-foot buffer zone, Jeffrey Bosworth, in his capacity 
as a member of the Commission, conducted a site visit to a parcel known as Hidden Ponds Lot 
15. Following his inspection of the property, Mr. Bosworth emailed all the other members of the 
Conservation Commission to report on his observations. Mr. Bosworth stated: 
 
Site visit pictures taken on 9/08/2020 at 9:20am on Lot 15 where trees were cut 
within 10‐15ft of the quarry within the 25ft buffer zone. This was a follow‐up on a 
phone complaint called into the Planning Office. Propose a formal site visit by the 
commission and original plans for this lot be on hand with a measuring tape. Please 
note that the stake with the orange ribbon was marked monument on one side and 
wetland on the other. Jeff  
 
Attached to the email were four photographs taken by Mr. Bosworth on his site visit. At the next 
Conservation Commission meeting on September 9, Mr. Bosworth reported the details of his site 
visit and his observations and reiterated his suggestion, first made in his email, that the full 
Commission conduct a formal site visit. The Commission proceeded to discuss the subject.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication from one 
public body member to a quorum on business within a body's jurisdiction is deliberation, even if 
no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.  
 On May 28, Chair Jernstrom sent an email to four members of the Commission, 
constituting a quorum. In the email, the Chair sought to correct an error from the prior meeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
by stating the correct information regarding several application that were then before the 
Commission. The email was a “written communication” sent to a quorum of the Commission on 
a matter of “public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also OML 2011-35.2 
The Commission asserts that the email is not deliberation because it contains merely “facts.” We 
disagree. There are several exemptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly. See OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51. For example, deliberation does not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. See 
OML 2015-69. We find that Chair Jernstrom’s email did not fit within any of the enumerated 
exemptions to the definition of deliberation and included updates on matters currently before the 
Board. The Law’s definition of “deliberation” is not limited to opinion or decision-making 
communications, and includes updates on matters to be discussed by the public body or matters 
that had previously been discussed by the public body and are still pending before it. See OML 
2018-9; OML 2015-3. Therefore, we conclude that the email constituted an impermissible 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting.  
 Similarly, Mr. Bosworth’s September 8 email regarding his site visit also constituted 
public business within the Commission’s jurisdiction. As this email reached more than a quorum 
of the Commission, and does not fit within the any of the exemptions to the definition of 
deliberation, we find that this email also constituted an impermissible deliberation outside of a 
posted meeting. We strongly caution the Commission that email should not be used in this 
manner and note our concern that this seems to be a regular practice of the Commission. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. We order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Commission that 
a determination by our Office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As the Commission discussed the substance of each 
email publicly at the Commission’s subsequent meetings, we order no further relief.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
      Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: Mark Albano (via e-mail: ) 
 East Longmeadow Conservation Commission c/o Chair Craig Jernstrom (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
