===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 30, 2024 
  
OML 2024 – 261 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
William Meeker 
Chair, Conservation Commission 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
concomm@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Meeker:  
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher on October 1, 2024, alleging 
that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Mr. Kelleher originally filed his complaint with the Commission 
on August 29 and you2 responded on its behalf on September 30.3  The complainant alleges that 
at its meeting on August 28, the Commission (1) improperly muted his microphone, preventing 
him from addressing the Commission remotely; (2) discussed agenda items out of order; and (3) 
posted a meeting notice that was not sufficiently specific, as it did not include as a topic a 
discussion of the complainant’s character. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate th
 e Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Hereinafter you are referenced in the third person. 
3 The Commission is reminded that unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, meet to review the complaint, respond to the 
complainant, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General’s Office, and notify the Attorney General’s 
Office of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, §23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6).  As this complaint was filed with 
the Commission on August 29, the response should have been served on or before September 19.  We caution the 
Commission that it must respond timely to any complaints in the future, and that the failure to timely respond to a 
complaint is itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
also reviewed the original and amended notices of the Commission’s August 28 meeting and 
viewed and listened to recordings of the August 28 meeting provided by the complainant.  
Finally, we communicated with the complainant via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On August 21, the Commission posted notice of a meeting 
to be held on August 28.
4  As amended, the notice listed three topics of discussion: 
 
1. Open Meeting Law Complaint - Christopher Kelleher 
2. 139 Fiskdale Road Order of Conditions Review 
3. Tree Trimming and Removal - 22 Brunnell Ave. 
 
 On August 22, Mr. Kelleher emailed the All Boards Clerk “to request a reasonable 
accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) for the upcoming 
Conservation Commission meeting scheduled for the 28th of August 2024.”  He asked to 
participate in the meeting remotely via telephone, due to a disability.  On the morning of August 
27, All Boards Clerk Chris DeFalco responded that the request had been referred to the Select 
Board to discuss at its next meeting.  Several hours later, Clerk DeFalco sent a Microsoft Teams 
link to the complainant so that he could attend the meeting remotely.
5 
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  Mr. Kelleher joined the meeting via the Teams 
link provided by Clerk DeFalco.  In a recording provided by the complainant, there seems to be 
small talk among those attending the meeting in person before the meeting started, although it is 
at times difficult to hear clearly.  Also prior to commencement of the meeting, Chair William 
Meeker stated “I can already hear him so make sure he’s muted please.”  The Commission does 
not deny that Chair Meeker’s comment was in reference to the complainant.   
 
After the meeting was called to order and attendance was taken, the Commission voted to 
take the discussion topics out of order, moving the discussion about Mr. Kelleher’s Open 
Meeting Law complaint to the end of the meeting.  Members expressed a general preference to 
first discuss items of interest to those attending a meeting in person.  The discussion of the 
Fiskdale Road order of conditions lasted approximately 15 minutes.  The discussion about 
Brunnell Avenue tree trimming lasted approximately 10 minutes.  From the audio, it appears that 
the property owners or their representatives addressed the Commission on each of these topics.
6  
The Commission turned next to the agenda item “Open Meeting Law Complaint – Christopher 
Kelleher.”  For approximately 18 minutes, the Commission discussed the allegations of two 
 
4The notice was amended on August 27 to include “Tree Trimming and Removal – 22 Brunnell Ave.”  Except in an 
emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  We did not review whether amendment of the notice 
less than 48 hours prior to the meeting constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law, as the complainant did not 
make this allegation.  
5 The Select Board was not scheduled to meet until August 29, the day after the Commission meeting the 
complainant sought to attend remotely.  The complainant alleges that the Teams link was forwarded to him only 
after he “escalated the matter to the Town Administrator.”  The Commission denies any knowledge of alleged 
efforts to deprive the complainant of remote access to the meeting. 
6 Minutes of the August 28 meeting were not available online at the time of our review. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Open Meeting Law complaints filed by Christopher Kelleher and the proposed response to each.  
At the conclusion of that discussion, the complainant interjected that he had a question for the 
Commission.  Chair Meeker responded that there was “no opportunity for public comment” and 
that it was “not a public hearing.”  He added “Please mute him.”  The meeting was then 
adjourned.  Immediately after adjournment, Mr.  Kelleher asked when the Commission was 
going to upload minutes of its July 22 meeting.  In response, he was told “the meeting’s over.”  
Mr. Kelleher’s Teams connection was then terminated.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We decline to review allegations that the Commission improperly muted the 
complainant and discussed agenda items out of order. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.7  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
allow public participation during its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address 
a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The Law permits the chair of a public body to decide 
who may speak at a meeting and for how long.  See OML 2021-133; OML 2017-189; OML 
2014-23.  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law leaves public participation in a remote or hybrid 
meeting to the discretion of the chair, just as it does with a meeting conducted in person.  See 
OML 2024-63 (declining to review allegation that complainant was muted during remote 
meeting); OML 2021-15 (board did not violate Open Meeting Law when it muted complainant 
during meeting); OML 2021-91 (board did not violate Open Meeting Law when it muted 
members of the public and disabled chat feature during remote meeting). 
 
The complainant alleges that at le
 ast once during the meeting, he was muted.  The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  
Because the act of muting the complainant during the August 28 meeting, even if true, would not 
constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review this allegation.  See OML 
2021-32; OML 2019-85.  It was within the discretion of the chair to allow property owners to 
speak to the items of business that concerned them and deny Mr. Kelleher the opportunity to 
speak when the Commission discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint he had filed.
8  We 
recognize that the complainant attended the meeting through a Teams link that was provided to 
him as an accommodation, not via a link listed on the notice for general public access.  This 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
8 We note that under the Open Meeting Law, the Commission could have chosen to discuss the Open Meeting Law 
complaint in executive session if it so desired.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  See also OML 2021-21; OML 2015-105; 
OML 2011-6.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
distinction, however, does not impact the  chair’s discretion under the Open Meeting Law to limit 
or disallow public participation, and the Division of Open Government does not review 
allegations regarding restrictions on public comment.  See OML 2024-204; OML 2024-63; 
2023-217.9    
    
Mr. Kelleher also complains that he was muted before and after the meeting and that his 
Teams connection was terminated abruptly after the meeting adjourned.  We decline to review 
these allegations.  Under the Open Meeting Law, it is the meeting itself that must be open to the 
public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (“Except as provided in section 21, all meetings of a public 
body shall be open to the public.”)  These allegations concern actions taken by the Commission 
before and after the meeting and therefore do not implicate the Open Meeting Law.10 
 
Finally, Mr. Kelleher alleges that the Commission took agenda items out of order, 
discussing the Open Meeting Law complaint he had filed later in the meeting than listed on the 
meeting notice.  Once a meeting begins, the public body controls its own agenda. Accordingly, 
the Law does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a 
topic listed on a meeting notice or taking topics in a different order than listed on the notice.  See 
OML 2021-201; OML 2014-35.  Therefore, we do not review the allegation that the Commission 
discussed the Open Meeting Law complaint later in the meeting than suggested by the meeting 
notice.   
 
II. Notice of the August 28 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
 A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Mr. Kelleher alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
his character, without including that discussion as an anticipated topic on the notice of the 
August 28 meeting.  We have listened to the recording of the August 28 meeting, provided to us 
 
9 We have stated that for a meeting to be “open to the public,” as required by the Open Meeting Law, it must be held 
in a location that is compliant with the ADA.  See OML 2024-130; OML 2020-47; OML 2012-49.  Additional 
reasonable accommodations must also be provided to enable a member of the public to attend a meeting of a public 
body, although the specific accommodations that may be required under state and federal law will depend on the 
circumstances.  Here, Mr. Kelleher acknowledges that he was provided a Teams link so that he could attend the 
meeting remotely as a disability accommodation; there is no allegation in the complaint that Mr. Kelleher was 
denied an accommodation to enable him to attend the meeting.  
10 As noted above, we decline to review allegations that the complainant was muted even during the meeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
by the complainant.  The Commission discussed Open Meeting Law complaints filed by 
Christopher Kelleher, a topic that was listed on the notice of the August 28 meeting.11  In 
discussing the complaints, members of the Commission shared arguments in defense of their 
actions and against Mr. Kelleher’s allegations.  However, the discussion remained focused on the 
Open Meeting Law complaints and did not turn to a discussion of Mr. Kelleher’s character, as 
alleged in the instant complaint.  Therefore, we find that the Commission did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting
 Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookfield Conservation Commission (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
 
 
 
11 We note that the notice references a single Open Meeting Law complaint, whereas the Commission reviewed two 
complaints during the meeting.  However, given that both complaints were filed by the complainant identified in the 
notice, this inconsistency does not defeat the sufficiency of notice. 
