===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 24, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 - 120 
 
 
James M. Pender, Esq. 
Morgan Brown & Joy 
200 State Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: jpender@morganbrown.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pender: 
 
This office received a complaint from David Palmer on November 8, 2022, alleging that 
the Belmont School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 9, 
2022, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated September 29, 2022.1  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee met in executive session on August 10 without sufficiently 
describing the purpose for the executive session.2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify with specificity the matter to be discussed in executive session.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
corresponded with counsel for the Committee.   
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Committee did not publicly post minutes, video, or other public documents 
from its August 10 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to post meeting minutes, video, 
or other documents online.  Rather, minutes must be approved in a timely manner and made available within 10 days 
of a request.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see also OML 2017- 98; OML 2017-25.  Because the allegation regarding a 
failure to “post” minutes, if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review the 
allegation.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meetin
g, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  
The topics must be listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
3  Executive session 
topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open 
session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. 
Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).   
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enum
erated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  Among the ten enumerated 
purposes, a public body may convene in executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public 
body must identify the collective bargaining unit with which it will be negotiating or the 
litigation matter it will be discussing, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for 
secrecy.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to identify, both on the notice for the 
Committee’s August 10 meeting as well as in the Chair’s announcement prior to entering 
executive session, the specific litigation matter to be discussed in executive session under 
Purpose 3.  Indeed, the meeting notice included the topic “Vote to convene in Executive Session 
to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the litigating position of the public body and the chair declares.”
 4  The Committee has 
acknowledged that it should have identified, both on the meeting notice and in the Chair’s 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 The purpose for the August 10 executive session was to discuss a prior Open Meeting Law complaint.  Although it 
is permissible for a public body to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint in executive session, the review of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint for purposes of preparing a response as part of the administrative review process 
conducted by our office is not considered litigation, and therefore does not fall within G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”).  See OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6.  Instead, such a discussion falls within G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”), which allows a public body “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition 
or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual .”   
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
announcement prior to entering executive session, the specific matter to be discussed in 
executive session and has committed to doing so in the future.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to identify the specific matter to be discussed in executive session, both on the meeting 
notice and in the Chair’s announcement prior to entering executive session.  We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.    
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
        
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   David Palmer – By email only:  
 Belmont School Committee – By email only: sc@belmontschools.net 
 Belmont Town Clerk – By email only: ecushman@belmont-ma.gov 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
