===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 29, 2016 
OML 2016-135 
James Donahue, Esq. 
1252 Elm Street, Suite 26 
PO Box 465 
West Springfield, MA 01090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Donahue: 
This office received three complaints from Ralph Page on March 28, alleging that 
the East Longmeadow Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about 
February 8, to which the Board did not respond. In his complaints, Mr. Page alleges that 
the Board failed to respond to his requests for open and executive session meeting minutes 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to a request for open session meeting minutes within 10 days; by failing 
to timely respond to a request for executive session minutes; and by failing to respond to 
the Open Meeting Law complaints. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. We 
also reviewed Mr. Page's requests for meeting minutes and Attorney Donahue's responses 
to those requests. We note that Mr. Page did not receive the minutes until they were 
provided by you, as Town counsel, in response to these complaints.2 
We find the facts as follows. On January 12, the complainant sent a letter to the 
Board requesting minutes from its September 30, 2014 meeting, as well as "all 
additional.. .minutes (either approved or in draft form) from October 27, 2014 to December 
31, 2015." The complainant submitted a separate request by letter, also dated January 12, 
for "[a]ll executive session meeting minutes from April 1, 2014 thru January 11, 2016." 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
That same day, the Board stamped the requests as "received." On January 14, the 
complainant sent a revised request for "[a]ll executive session meeting minutes of the 
Board of Selectmen from April 1, 2014 thru January 11, 2016." This letter was also 
stamped "received" by the Board on that day. The Board did not respond to the requests or 
to the Open Meeting Law complaints that followed on February 8. 
Since the filing of these complaints, effective July 1, the Town adopted a new form 
of government with a Town Council replacing the Board of Selectmen. Two of the three 
former selectmen are currently serving on the Town Council. Due to this change in form 
of government, Attorney Donahue responded to the complainant's requests after prompting 
by our office. On July 25, Attorney Donahue sent the complainant copies of the requested 
open session minutes. On August 23, Attorney Donahue sent the complainant a letter, 
explaining that due to the dissolution of the Board, the Town Manager conducted a review 
of the Board's withheld executive session minutes. Attorney Donahue informed the 
complainant that, based on this review, certain executive session minutes had been released 
to the public and were available for him to pick up in the Town Manager's office. This 
letter also included a log of the executive session minutes indicating those sets that 
remained withheld from disclosure and those sets that were released to the public. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id, The burden of justifying 
continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudv v. 
Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body respond to a request for 
minutes, both open and executive sessions, within 10 days of the request. G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 22(c), (g)(2). Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an 
executive session or any portion thereof, the public body must release any such minutes 
not covered by an exemption within 10 days; provided, however, that if the body has not 
performed a review of the executive session minutes, the public body shall perform the 
review and release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the public 
body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We find that the Board not only missed the requisite 10-day deadline to respond to 
the complainant's requests, it failed to respond altogether until Attorney Donahue 
responded on its behalf six months later. The failure to respond within 10 days of Mr. 
Page's requests violated the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, upon receiving the 
complainant's requests for executive session minutes, the Board failed to undertake the 
requisite review to determine whether the minutes could be released. G.L. c. 3OA, 
§ 22(g)(2); OML 2013-99.3 When a periodic review has not been recently conducted, the 
Open Meeting Law requires a public body to conduct this review upon receiving a request 
for executive session minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2016-11. Although the 
Town Manager has since conducted such a review on behalf of the dissolved Board, she 
did so many months later. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide open session minutes within 10 days of a request and by failing 
to timely respond to a request for executive session minutes. 
The Board also failed to respond to these complaints, which were filed with the 
Board months prior to its dissolution. When an individual files an Open Meeting Law 
complaint with a public body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the 
members of the public body," and "the public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). The public body must meet to review the complaint 
and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint 
within 14 business days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2012-90. Accordingly, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the complaints in 
any way. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a 
request for open session minutes within 10 days; by failing to timely respond to a request 
for executive session minutes; and by failing to respond to the Open Meeting Law 
complaints. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We 
extend this order to the Town Council as the Town's new legislative body, and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneetiiig. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ralph Page 
East Longmeadow Town Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
4 