===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 26 
 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This determination addresses seven complaints from Attorney Raymond H. Tomlinson, 
Jr. alleging that the Harwich Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first six complaints are dated May 24, 2021, while the seventh 
complaint is dated August 5, 2021.1  All of the complaints addressed herein allege that the Board 
did one or more of the following: failed to post sufficiently detailed meeting notices, failed to 
timely approve and release meeting minutes, limited attendance at and public participation 
during meetings, failed to properly convene in executive session, met in executive session for an 
improper purpose, and deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.2  These allegations are 
alleged to have occurred during Board meetings held on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, May 
12, and July 26 in which the Board discussed the renewal of a liquor and entertainment license 
for both Ember Pizza and The Port Restaurant and Bar, and convened in executive session to 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 The complaints also allege that the Board improperly used the Rule of Necessity (which allows a public body 
member to participate in a meeting even though he is disqualified due to a conflict of interest because, without the 
member’s participation, the public body would not otherwise have a quorum), omitted certain documents from 
meeting packets, failed to provide good cause regarding a decision to limit entertainment licenses, and failed to hold 
a hearing.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  As such, 
we decline to review these matters.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).  We offer no 
opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of som e other law or regulation outside the 
scope of the Division’s review.   
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discuss litigation strategy with respect to a complaint filed in federal district court by both 
restaurants against the town and the Board.3   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve 
meeting minutes and by failing to first convene in open session prior to entering into executive 
session.  We find that the Board did not violate the law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, 
and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the 
notices and minutes of Board meetings held on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, May 12, and 
July 26, as well as video recordings of the April 27, May 4, May 10, and July 26 meetings.4  
Finally, we communicated with the complainant on November 8, and with you on January 28, 
2022.     
 
BACKGROUND 
 
In March 2021, Ember Pizza and The Port Restaurant and Bar filed a civil action in the 
United States District Court against the Town of Harwich and the Board with respect to the 
Town’s Noise Bylaw and the issuance and restriction of entertainment licenses for the 
restaurants.  In September 2021, both restaurants filed a similar civil action in Barnstable District 
Court. 
  
The Board duly posted notices for meetings to be held on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 
10, May 12, and July 26.  Each notice included, in addition to other open session topics, an 
executive session “pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 21(a)(3) to discuss litigation strategy” with respect to 
the case of “Ember and Port v. Town of Harwich.”  During each of these six meetings, the Board 
immediately convened the meeting in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 and discussed 
strategy with respect to the pending federal lawsuit.  The Board thereafter convened in open 
session on each of the six meeting dates and discussed the remaining noticed topics.      
 
On April 26, May 4, and May 12, the Board held virtual public hearings regarding the 
renewal of liquor and entertainment licenses for Ember Pizza and The Port Restaurant and Bar.  
During meetings held on April 27 and May 10, the Board continued to discuss the requested 
renewal of liquor and entertainment licenses for Ember Pizza and The Port Restaurant and Bar.   
Ultimately, the Board granted liquor licenses and entertainment licenses to both Ember Pizza and 
The Port Restaurant but imposed certain conditions with respect to the entertainment license for 
 
3 Attorney Tomlinson represented both Ember Pizza and The Port Restaurant and Bar during the public hearings 
held by the Board on April 26, May 4, and May 12 and also represents both establishments in the federal district 
court case.  Ember Pizza and The Port Restaurant and Bar are owned and operated by the same individuals.  
4 A video recording of the Board’s April 27 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q9CvsjWF2KI&list=PLSetH4aNaSHBn8dDqQid4sJahXKYtijRr&index=23 ;   
a video recording of the Board’s May 4 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nLykxLT2Qoo&list=PLSetH4aNaSHBn8dDqQid4sJahXKYtijRr&index=21 ;   
a video recording of the Board’s May 10 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eiv-
qdHrPso&list=PLSetH4aNaSHBn8dDqQid4sJahXKYtijRr&index=22 ; and a video recording of the Board’s July 26 
meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yb2Q8zXOu3E&list=PLSetH4aNaSHBn8dDqQid4sJahXKYtijRr&index=14. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
each establishment.  Specifically, the Board granted the entertainment licenses allowing each 
establishment to provide entertainment from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. “inside with recorded or 
live music with amplification” but limited outdoor entertainment to “unamplified acoustic 
music” between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 pm.  During a meeting held on July 26, the 
Board authorized the Town Administrator to conduct a public hearing for the possible 
suspension of The Port Restaurant’s liquor license.  Thereafter, the Board suspended the liquor 
license of The Port Restaurant for three days in August 2021 upon finding violations pertaining 
to the service and consumption of alcohol without food.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Sufficiency of Meeting Notices 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b).  Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1) 
(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See 
OML 2015-35.5  
  
Here, the notices for three meetings (April 26, May 4, and May 12) notified the public 
that the Board was conducting a public hearing, and identified the reason for the public hearing, 
the specific type of license requested, the name of the company requesting the license, and the 
property location.  As such, we find that these notices contained sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the topics to be discussed during the meetings.  See OML 2018-
57.  Further, we find that the notices for two other meetings (April 27 and May 10), which 
included a topic for “Discussion and possible vote” to consider requests to continue use of 
“Expanded Outdoor Table Service,” included the specific properties to be discussed by name and 
address and sufficiently identified the discussions that occurred.6  The Board need not list each 
and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the law’s requirements.  See OML 2014-
122.  We find that the Board posted sufficiently specific notices for its meetings.   
   
Accessibility of Meetings and Public Participation 
 
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2015-38; 
OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.  Public bodies are permitted to meet entirely 
remotely, provided that the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access to 
the deliberations of the public body while those deliberations are occurring.  See St. 2021, c. 20, 
 
5 Open Meeting Law declinations and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.msss.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
6 The complaints do not appear to raise any issue with respect to the sufficiency of the open session topics listed on 
the Board’s July 26 meeting notice. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
§ 20 (Act Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency); 
Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 
(Mar. 12, 2020).  In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public the meeting venue, whether 
a physical location or a remote method of access, must be accessible to the public for the 
duration of the meeting. See OML 2021-76; OML 2018-51; OML 2017-172; OML 2014-118.  
Although the complaints allege that the Board “capped” or “locked out” participants, we find 
insufficient evidence to conclude that any individual was denied access to the Board meetings 
held on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, May 12, and July 26.  As such, we find that these six 
meetings were open and accessible, and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
With respect to the allegations raised in the complaints that the Board muted participants 
during a meeting, we find that, even if true, such actions would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law where the law does not require that a public body allow public participation, 
but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission 
of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The 
law permits the Chair of the Board to decide who may speak at a meeting and for how long.  See 
OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.   
 
Timely Approval of Meeting Minutes 
 
We next consider whether the Board timely approved minutes of the meetings held on 
April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, May 12, and July 26.  We find that the Board did not 
approve the minutes of these meetings in a timely manner.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, whether for open or executive session, in a 
timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the next three public 
body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133. 
Here, the Board approved minutes of these meetings between its fifth and twenty-second meeting 
thereafter, and more than 30 days later.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to approve these six sets of meeting minutes in a timely manner.   
 
Convening in Executive Session 
 
The complaints further allege that the executive session topics listed on the notices for the 
Board meetings held on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, May 12, and July 26 were 
insufficient and that the Board convened in executive session on these dates for an improper 
purpose.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  One permissible reason for a public body to 
convene in executive session is to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or 
otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke 
Purpose 3.  See Powers v. Freetown-Lakeville Reg'l Sch. Dist. Comm., 392 Mass. 656, 659 
(1984); Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982).   
 
The Board convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 during all six meetings to 
discuss litigation strategy with respect to a pending federal district court case.  We find that all 
the notices were sufficiently specific with respect to the executive session topics where each 
notice stated that the Board would convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss 
litigation strategy and included the specific case name of the litigation matter it planned to 
discuss in executive session.  See OML 2021-27.  As such, the meeting notices sufficiently 
notified the public of the precise subject of the executive session discussions for the six meetings 
held in April, May and July. 
 
Next, we find that the executive session discussions were appropriate under Purpose 3 
because they related to strategy with respect to the pending lawsuit filed by the complainant 
against the Board.  Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, May 12, and July 26.  See OML 2017-
180; OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43.  The Board was not required, as the complaints suggest, to 
announce or discuss in open session any decisions made or agreement reached in executive 
session regarding the litigation matter.  See OML 2018-70; see also Doherty, 386 Mass. at 647 
(holding that closed door votes are permissible where a body meets in executive session to 
protect its litigating position).   
 
Although we find that the Board properly posted notice of the executive sessions and 
convened an executive session for a permissible purpose, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to first convene in open session prior to entering into executive 
session on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, and May 12.  These five meetings were held 
remotely and, while the chair stated the purpose for the executive session and a majority of 
Board members voted to enter into executive session, the Board admits that “due to inadvertent 
technical matters” it is “unable to confirm” that the public could view that portion of each virtual 
meeting when the Board convened in executive session.  The public had a right to witness the 
procedural steps in order to observe the Board’s roll call vote and learn the purpose for the 
executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 2013-195.  We commend the 
Board’s commitment to ensure future compliance.  Nevertheless, members of the public were 
denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive sessions held on April 
26, April 27, May 4, May 10, and May 12.  See OML 2013-195.  We find that the public was 
able to attend and witness the vote and learn the purpose for the executive session held on July 
26. 
 
Finally, we consider whether the Board lawfully withheld the minutes of the executive 
sessions where it discussed the lawsuit.  The Open Meeting Law provides that “[t]he minutes of 
any executive session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such 
minutes and all documents and exhibits used at the session, may be withheld from disclosure to 
the public in their entirety under subclause (a) of clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4, 
as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer...”  
Because there is no dispute that the Board convened in executive session to discuss the federal 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
lawsuit filed by the complainant against the Board and that this litigation matter was still 
ongoing, the Board properly withheld the executive session minutes.   
 
Deliberation Outside of a Meeting 
 
Finally, we decline to review allegations alleging that members of the Board deliberated 
outside of an open meeting where the complaints do not identify any specific dates or 
circumstances when such discussions occurred, and our office will not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies based on such generalized allegations.7  See OML 2014-119; OML 2012-106.  
Nevertheless, any discussions that may have occurred between less than a quorum of members 
do not violate the Open Meeting Law as they do not constitute deliberation.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
18 (“deliberation” is defined, in part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction); see also OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69; OML 2015-77; 
OML 2011-52.  Furthermore, any communications from an individual public official, such as the 
Town Manager or Police Chief, to a quorum of the Board, or between a sub-quorum of Board 
members and such public officials would also not constitute improper deliberation.  See OML 
2020-71; OML 2020-53; OML 2014-80.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to approve six sets of meeting minutes in a timely manner and by failing to first convene 
in open session prior to entering into executive session on April 26, April 27, May 4, May 10, 
and May 12.  As the meeting minutes have all subsequently been approved, and the executive 
sessions were held for a permissible purpose, we order no further remedial action.  However, we 
order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
7 We note that the complaints allege that, during the April 26 public hearing, the Board “conceded” that it engaged 
in ex parte communications with each other.  Although no video is available for this hearing, we have reviewed the 
minutes, which are essentially a transcript of the hearing, and do not find any evidence that a quorum of Board 
members discussed the renewal of the liquor or entertainments licenses outside of a properly  posted meeting. 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
cc:   Raymond H. Tomlinson, Jr., Esq. – By email only:  
Harwich Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Michael MacAskill – By email only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
