===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.govlago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 25, 2011 
OML 2011-29 
Ms. Doreen M. Goodrich 
Chairman, Auburn Board of Selectmen 
104 Central Street 
Auburn, MA 01501 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint/Town of Auburn Board of Selectmen 
Dear Ms. Goodrich: 
On August 13, 2010, this office received a complaint filed by Ms. Laurie Lanciault 
("Complainant") alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
Auburn Board of Selectmen ("Board). The complaint alleges that the Board failed to release the 
executive session minutes of the Town Manager Screening Panel ("Panel") despite the purpose 
for which the Panel convened in executive session being concluded and the Panel dissolved. 
Specifically, the complainant alleges that "the minutes to the Executive Sessions of the 
Screening Panel should have been made available to the public 'within seven days or a 
reasonable amount of time" from the date the Panel concluded its meetings and recommended 
candidates to the Board. The Complainant also contends that two members of the Board violated 
her rights by demanding that she stop posting information included in the executive session 
minutes of the Panel to electronic message boards and by making comments in public meetings 
about the Complainant's actions that were subsequently published in news articles. The 
complaint requests a detennination from this office that the Open Meeting Law was violated and 
requests that this office issue an order requiring the Board to comply with the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law, particularly as it pertains to the release of executive session minutes. In 
addition, the complaint requests a public acknowledgement by the Board of its failure to comply 
===PAGE 2===
with the Open Meeting Law and an apology by individual members of the Board for comments 
made publicly about the Complainant. 
The complaint was filed with the Board on August 20, 2010.1  The Board's response to 
the complaint was received by this office on September 3, 2010. 
We note that in the Board's response to the complaint, the Board alleges violations of the 
Open Meeting Law by the Complainant. Specifically, the Board alleges that the Complainant 
"publically disclosed pertinent information pertaining to votes that had been taken during the 
Executive Session meetings" prior to the approval and release of the minutes of the executive 
session. As a threshold matter, the Complainant is not a public body and is therefore not subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, we decline to review the Board's allegation that the 
Complainant violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Our office reviewed the initial complaint; the Board's response; the executive session 
minutes from the April 29, 2010 meeting of the Panel; the open session minutes from meetings 
of the Board convened on May 10, 2010; May 24, 2010; May 27, 2010; June 2, 2010; July 12, 
2010; July 15, 2010; July 22, 2010; July 26, 2010; and August 9, 2010; the executive session 
minutes from the meeting of the Board on July 12, 2010; a video of the July 15, 2010 meeting of 
the Board; postings to the electronic message board www.onthecommon.com  between July 7, 
2010 and July 12, 2010; a letter from Labor Counsel to the Board Chair, dated February 16, 
2010; a letter to the Complainant signed by Mr. Timothy Hicks in his capacity as Board 
Chainnan, dated July 13, 2010; and written answers to questions posed by this office to the 
Board through Labor Counsel that were submitted on November 19, 2010. We interviewed the 
Complainant on November 11, 2010. We appreciate the participation and patience of all parties 
during this process. 
Based on our review of the infonnation described above, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law by the Board. 
FACTS 
On December 28, 2009, the Board created the Panel, a preliminary screening committee 
established for the purpose of identifying qualified candidates for the position of Auburn Town 
Manager. The Board appointed seven individuals to the Panel, including the Complainant and 
two members of the Board. The Panel first met on February 18, 2010. The nainutes of the initial 
meeting of the Panel on February 18th  reflect that members of the Panel received a general 
overview of the process for selecting the Town Manager and were advised by Labor Counsel for 
the Town about the legal requirements for conducting the screenings, including the requirement 
of confidentiality. Specifically, Labor Counsel advised the Panel that "Whe members...must not 
'In accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b), a complainant must file the complaint with the public body at least 30 
days prior to filing a complaint with the Attorney General. The Complainant first filed with the Attorney General, 
but corrected the procedural defect by filing the complaint with the public body and providing it with an opportunity 
to respond. 
===PAGE 3===
discuss the applicants with anyone outside of the Committee and must not make any comment to 
the press...the Chair...is the spokesperson for the Committee and should be the only person 
authorized to make public comment." See Letter from Labor Counsel, February 16, 2010. The 
Panel subsequently met on March 13, 2010; March 20, 2010; April 1, 2010; April 8, 2010; April 
10, 2010; April 15, 2010; April 24, 2010; and April 29, 2010. 
On April 29, 2010, the members of the Panel properly convened in executive session and 
voted to recommend five (5) candidates for Town Manager to the Board, from over fifty (50) 
applications reviewed by the Panel. During the same meeting, the Panel approved the minutes of 
the executive sessions convened on March 13, 2010; March 20, 2010; April 1, 2010; April 8, 
2010; April 10, 2010, April 15, 2010 and April 24, 2010. The members of the Panel also 
unanimously agreed "to release the minutes [of the executive sessions] when there is no longer a 
need to be confidential; Labor Counsel to determine if names should be redacted to protect 
identities of non-fmalists." 
The minutes of the meeting of the Board convened on May 10, 2010 reflect that the 
Board convened in an open session and announced the names of the five finalists recommended 
by the Panel. During the public comment period, the minutes of the Board's meeting reflect that 
the Complainant stated that "she enjoyed working on the Town Manager Screening Panel and 
that she hoped the Board would choose the best candidate for Auburn." Labor Counsel then 
made recommendations to the Board about the process for conducting interviews of the 
recommended candidates for Town Manager and selecting a fmalist. The Board then deliberated 
on the selection process and voted to conduct "group meetings with department heads and 
candidates; one on one conversation[s] with each Board member [and candidates]; public 
interviews with the fmalists; and background checks and site visits with communities by a sub-
committee of the Board." The Board then voted to continue the process for selecting a Town 
Manager and voted to continue to "work out the details to implement the Board's vote." Finally, 
the Board "voted to dissolve the Town Manager Screening Panel with thanks to the members for 
their service." Following the May 10th  meeting, the Chair of the Board, who was also the foimer 
Chair of the Panel, reviewed the minutes of the Panel. See  Written Answers of Board, 
November 19, 2010. 
On May 12, 2010, the Complainant made a verbal request to the Town Clerk for the 
minutes of the open and executive sessions of the April 29, 2010 meeting of the Panel. No 
written request was filed. The Complainant was notified at the time of the request that no 
minutes had been filed by the Panel. The Complainant did not follow up with a written request, 
but did reiterate the request to receive a copy of the minutes to a member of the Board. 
According to the Complainant, the Board member indicated to the Complainant that the minutes 
were required to be "filed within seven (7) days" of the meeting. 
The Board held public interviews with the five candidates recommended by the Panel 
during a meeting in open session on May 27, 2010. Following the interviews, the Board 
deliberated "about site visits by a sub-committee and meetings with department heads and one-
on-one discussions." 
===PAGE 4===
On June 2, 2010, the Board narrowed the field of five candidates for Town Manager to 
three during a meeting convened in open session. The three fmalists chosen were Charles 
O'Connor, the Acting Town Manager; J. Jefftey Ritter; and Brian Palaia. The minutes reflect 
that during a public comment period, the Complainant, "spoke about residency and that all 
candidates should be treated the same with respect to the issue. She also discussed the lack of an 
evaluation of Mr. O'Connor," referring to the Town's decision not to conduct a perfoimance 
evaluation of the Acting Town Manager durhig the course of his tenure in that position. The 
• Board then "discussed sub-committees for site visits and contract negotiations." 
On July 7, 2010 at 1:29 p.m., a posting was made to the electronic message board 
www.onthecommon.com,  which states: 
Regarding the ACO, I believe that the background check, reference checks 
and a thorough interview would have revealed any conflicts in infoiKiation 
prior to an appointment. CO DID drop the ball and I hope Allain wasn't paying 
attention when I mentioned the 'open ended' clause in CO's contract. We could 
be in serious trouble!! Also, I just received an email stating that I have been appointed 
to the Historic Commission—my application went in last summer. Others have 
called to tell me about their appointments. Gee, why are things starting to happen now? 
Is the clock ticking down on CO? Is he still trying to impress the BOS? I they pursue B 
Palaia [sic]. He is under no contract as of yet so, Auburn could still be a choice. I 
spoke with him in the parking lot at town hall a week or so ago and I still think he is 
an intelligent choice. Let's see who the BOS thinks of first. Better not be CO! 
The posting was signed "LL." In the complaint filed with this office, the Complainant states, 
"[u]nder the assumption that the Executive Session minutes has [sic] been filed in compliance 
with Massachusetts General Laws, I revealed general information gained as a member of the 
Screening Panel regarding the fmal candidates for Town Manager position on a public hiternet 
forum on July 8. My statements were my opinion." The Complainant asserts in the complaint to 
this office that later the same day, follner Board Chair, Mr. Hicks, left her a message stating that 
by communicating information included in executive session minutes not yet released by the 
Board, she was in violation of state ethics laws and "insisted that [the Complainant] refrain from 
posting and 'keep quiet' until a Town Manager is appointed." 
On July 12, 2010, another posting appeared on www.onthecomrnon.com,  which states: 
There were, I think, 8 people who applied for appointment to the Screening 
Panel—two were not present that night, one was a Town employee and the last 
five were all appointed (myself included). We started meeting in February and 
March. We interviewed through the month of April and made selections to 
advance to the BOS in May! One candidate was voted forward unanimously 
by the committee, two more were advanced by a 6-1 vote each. So, we had 
three that the panel felt were very strong. But, there was a concern not ever 
verbalized but one can imagine. So, instead of three moved forward, we had 
to go with five so that the ATM [Acting Town Manager] would still be in 
===PAGE 5===
the running. He got a 5-2 vote. And, now with the BOS dragging their feet, 
we are into July without a decision. We're taking four months! I have never 
heard of anyone waiting for a career decision for that long. If we love BP and 
JR, I would like to see a bunch of us asking to start over in the search. All along, 
I thought there were funning things going on—NOW I AM CONVINCED!!! 
Again, the posting was signed "LL." 
The Board met later the same day. The minutes of the July 12, 2010 meeting reflect that 
the Board generally discussed Town business unrelated to the Town Manager search, with the 
exception of an entry in the minutes that the site visits of the three fmalist candidates for Town 
Manager were complete and that the Board was preparing a report. The Board then voted to 
meet on July 15, 2010 "to complete the process for the selection of the Town's first Town 
Manager." 
On July 15, 2010, the Board convened in open session. An hour of public comment and 
comments from members of the Board about the finalists for Town Manager ensued. During the 
comment period, three Board members individually indicated general dissatisfaction with the 
qualifications of the three remaining candidates for Town Manager; one Board member stated 
his preference for one candidate; and one Board member stated that the process had been a 
"legitimate process... [and] she was not in favor of re-opening it." Following the conclusion of 
members' comments, the Board voted 3-2 to "remove all current fmalist candidates from 
consideration for the position of Auburn Town Manager and return the process of selecting a 
Town Manager to a search committee." 
On July 22, 2010, the Board met in open session and voted to create another seven-
member screening panel to assist with the second search for a Town Manager. The minutes of 
the open session of the meeting reflect that a member of the Board "commented on his concern 
that there is an allegation that a member of the screening panel divulged executive session 
information publicly and discussed votes on blogs. He said it has to be emphasized to the next 
panel that their work is an executive function of the Board of Selectmen and that they cannot 
discuss publicly executive session infoimation." 
The Complainant states that she received a letter on July 26, 2010, which was dated July 
13, 2010, requesting her to stop posting commentary about the Town Manager search at 
www.onthecommon.com  and stating that information related to the search remains "confidential 
at this time." On July 28, 2010, the minutes of the April 29, 2010 open and executive sessions of 
the Panel were approved and released. The Complainant subsequently received a copy of the 
April 29, 2010 minutes. 
The Board met again on August 9, 2010. The minutes reflect that "all the minutes of the 
previous screening panel have been released and are at the Town Clerk's office." 
DISCUSSION 
===PAGE 6===
Public bodies have discretion to enter executive session and to deteimine when the 
purpose for which the public body has entered executive session is concluded. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a); see also Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 182  
(1988).  However, the public body also bears the burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of 
executive session minutes. Foudy, 402 Mass.  at 184. Once the public body has determined that 
the purpose for which it entered executive session has concluded, the minutes may no longer 
remain private because "it is essential to the democratic fowl of government that the public have 
broad access to the decisions made by its elected officials and to the way in which the decisions 
are reached." Id. It is incumbent upon the public body to periodically review executive session 
minutes to determine whether the executive session purpose continues to apply and warrants the 
non-disclosure of minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). If a request for minutes is made, the 
body has 10 days in which to respond. $ee G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
Here, the Panel was formed as a preliminary screening panel for the purpose of assisting 
the Board with conducting a search for qualified candidates for Auburn Town Manager. That 
search began in earnest on March 13, 2010 when the Panel first convened to consider candidates' 
applications. It ended on July 15, 2010, when the Board voted to conclude the current search 
process without selecting a finalist and re-open the search for a Town Manager. A review of the 
minutes of the Board's meetings between May 10, 2010 and July 15, 2010 reflect that the Board, 
with the advice of counsel, undertook a process that, following the recommendations made by 
the Panel on April 29th  and the Panel's dissolution on May 10 took more than two months to 
complete. The process included public interviews with the five fmalists recommended by the 
panel on May 27, 2010, a further narrowing of the candidates from five individuals to three 
individuals by the Board on June 2, 2010, one-on-one meetings between Board members and 
finalists, meetings with Town department heads, and site visits to communities that had 
employed the candidates. The work done by the Panel was part of what members of the Board 
considered during the process. See  Board of Selectmen Meeting Video, July 15, 2010 at 
http://www.mefeedia.com/watch/32041590;  Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Selectmen, 
July 15, 2010. Selectmen spoke about the "long, careful and deliberate process," and referred to 
time spent "reading and reviewing the information and replaying the finalists' answers and 
statements" and "[poring] over all the information provided to the Board." Id. 
If, as the Complainant contends, the role of the Panel is divorced from the context of the 
whole search process required to narrow a field of candidates for Town Manager down to one 
finalist, then the Complainant's conclusion that the purpose for executive session was concluded 
on May 10th  is not unreasonable. As the Complainant points out, the Board publicly announced 
the names of the individuals the Panel recommended during its May 10th  meeting. The Board 
also "voted to dissolve the Town Manager. Screening Panel with thanks to the members for their 
service." However, in this instance, it is the context of the search process that provides the 
justification for the Board's decision that the purpose for entering executive session continued 
beyond the Panel's dissolution. 
The Panel was formed by the Board at the beginning of the search process for a new 
Town Manager. The Board states in its response that "the purpose of the [Panel] was not 
considered complete until the search process had been completed by the Selectmen," and 
===PAGE 7===
releasing the executive session minutes of the Panel "prior to the completion of the search 
process would have adversely impacted the selection process." Indeed, implicit in the founation 
of any preliminary screening committee is the concept that it will exist for a fmite period of time 
to conduct an initial screening of applicants for a position. However, while its role may be 
limited, the information that a preliminary screening committee collects is part of the larger 
process of narrowing a field of candidates to one fmalist. See Commonwealth v. Board of 
Selectmen of the Town of Westborough,  2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super., October 30, 2006) 
("By defmition, a preliminary action implies something to follow, that is, a next step of action. 
In the context of [the Open Meeting Law] the terms implies that there will be a final selection 
process among those who have survived the earlier review."). Moreover, in the event that 
candidates withdraw or the process is flawed at a later stage, it is foreseeable that a hiring 
authority may return to the preliminary screening committee for guidance on how to proceed. Id. 
For this reason, the purpose for which a preliminary screening committee enters executive 
session may outlast the preliminary screening committee itself. In written answers to questions 
posed by this office, the Board contends that the Panel, including the Complainant, agreed with 
and assented to this approach when it voted in executive session on April 29, 2010 to "release the 
minutes of the [Panel] when there was no longer a need to be confidential." See Written 
Answers of Board, November 19, 2010. Moreover, all members of the Panel were notified of 
their obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the process. See  Letter from Labor Counsel, 
February 16, 2010. 
Ultimately, the Board voted on July 15, 2010 to remove all  current fmalist candidates 
from consideration and restart the Town Manager selection process. Thereafter, the Board 
determined that "because the selection process was completed, there was no longer the need for 
confidentiality," and the minutes were reviewed and released on July 28, 2010. See  Written 
Answers of Board, November 19, 2010. 
Considering the entire process that the Board undertook to identify a slate of fmalists for 
the position of Town Manager, we find that the Board was justified in withholding the minutes 
of the executive sessions of the Panel until the process for choosing a Town Manager was 
concluded on July 15, 2010. We further find that the Board acted in a timely fashion to release 
the minutes following the conclusion of the Town Manager selection process. 
Finally, on the question of whether the Complainant's rights were violated, we decline to 
issue a determination. The Open Meeting Law is silent about the responsibilities of individual 
public body members to maintain the confidentiality of executive session minutes. That 
confidentiality may be protected under other state laws, but we do not comment on that issue 
here because it is outside of our purview. 
CONCLUSION 
Based on our review of the information we fmd no violation of the Open Meeting Law by 
the Board. The Board justified its decision to withhold the minutes of the executive sessions of 
the Panel until the process for choosing a Town Manager was concluded on July 15, 2010 and 
===PAGE 8===
acted appropriately to release the minutes following the conclusion of the Town Manager 
selection process. We now consider this matter closed. 
Sincerely, 
Britte McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
Cc: 	 Laurie Lanciault 
D.M. Moschos, Esq. 