===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 13, 2015 
OML 2015-168 
Michelle Randazzo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Angela Panaccione, dated September 15, alleging 
that the Brimfield Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic during its 
August 10 meeting that was not included in the meeting notice. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Board on August 17. The Board responded by letter dated September 9. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and 
the minutes of, the Board's August 10 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Ms. Panaccione by 
telephone on September 23. 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's August 10 meeting included the 
following topics; "Conservation: Deed Restriction -Ciesla/Apple Rd." The Board intended to 
meet with the Town's Conservation Commission during this discussion. Ms. Panaccione is an 
employee of the Conservation Commission, and attended the meeting with the understanding 
that the Board would be addressing a deed restriction with the Commission. During the meeting, 
the Board discussed the posted topic. During that discussion, a Board member who was not the 
Chair questioned Ms. Panaccione about her hours and compensation working for the Town. The 
Chair did not know prior to the meeting that the Board member would raise the subject of Ms. 
Panaccione's employment. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting in an easily understandable format containing the date, time, and 
place of the meeting, and a list of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Additionally, the public body must list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The notice for the Board's August 10 meeting included a topic related to Conservation 
Commission business, but did not specifically include a topic relating to Ms. Panaccione's hours 
and compensation working for the Town. The discussion regarding Ms. Panaccione was led by a 
single Board member. The Chair did not anticipate the issue being raised by that member. 
Because the Board's discussion was not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours prior to the 
meeting, the Board was not required to include the topic in its meeting notice. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21(b). Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.2 
The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to provide Ms. Panaccione with 48 
hours' notice that she would be discussed during the meeting. Except when meeting in executive 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require public 
bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals 
for topics discussed during a meeting. See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41. Here, the Board 
discussed Ms. Panaccione in open session. Because the Board was not required to notify Ms. 
Panaccione that it would be discussing her hours and compensation, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by holding that discussion without providing her individual notice. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 As a best practice, our office recommends that, whenever possible, public bodies update their meeting notices or 
postpone discussion of topics that arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members of the public may be 
given advance notice of agenda items. See OML 2015-115. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the 
Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Brimfield Board of Selectmen 
Angela Panaccione 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 