===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 159 
 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from George Noel on December 30, 2020, and a 
complaint from Edward Giroux on January 4, 2021, alleging that the Billerica Board of 
Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  Mr. Noel’s 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 19, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated November 5.  Mr. Giroux’s complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on October 24, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate letter dated 
November 5.  Both complaints allege that the Board discussed a topic— specifically, disbanding 
the Town’s Economic Development Office—during its October 13 meeting without the topic 
having been included on the notice for that meeting.  In addition, Mr. Noel alleges that although 
the Board discussed the topic again at an October 19 meeting, the topic was not added to the 
notice for that meeting until less than 48 hours prior to the meeting and therefore the October 19 
discussion did not constitute adequate remedial action. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a reasonably 
anticipated topic during its October 13 meeting despite the topic not being on the notice for that 
meeting, but that the Board took appropriate remedial action during its October 19 meeting.  We 
also find that although the notice for the October 19 meeting was amended multiple times to add 
increasingly more specificity regarding the Economic Development Office topic, the version of 
the notice that was posted more than 48 hours in advance was sufficiently specific with regard to 
this topic.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  
We also reviewed the notices and minutes of Board meetings held on October 13 and 19; the 
minutes of Board meetings held on August 17, September 14, and September 28; and videos of 
the August 17 and October 13 meetings.2 3  In addition, we corresponded by email with Mr. Noel 
and Mr. Giroux. 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for and held a meeting on August 
17.  During that meeting, in the course of discussing the Town Manager’s performance review, 
members of the Board identified goals and objectives for the Town Manager and the Town 
generally with regard to economic development, among other things.  Board members Burrows 
and Burns specifically identified a goal to disband the Town’s Economic Development Office, 
while Chair Rosa stated a desire to restructure the Office with new personnel.  At some point in 
August, one of the two staff members in the Economic Development Office resigned.  Although 
the Board discussed issues related to that employee’s resignation during two meetings in 
September, the Board did not further discuss disbanding the Economic Development Office. 
 
 The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 13.  The notice included, 
among other things, the heading “Old Business,” and under that, the topic “Goals and 
Objectives.”  The notice did not include any additional detail or context regarding the topic 
“Goals and Objectives.”  The Board convened the meeting on October 13 as scheduled.  During 
the “Goals and Objectives” portion of the meeting, the Town Manager initiated a discussion of 
several topics, each of which generated significant discussion by the Board.  Relevant here, the 
Board discussed restructuring the Economic Development and Planning Offices, and in 
particular, the Board’s economic development priorities vis-à-vis the Town’s Master Plan.  After 
much discussion spanning over an hour, Board member Burns moved to establish a policy 
directive to disband the Economic Development Office.  After discussing whether such an action 
was within the Board’s authority, the Board voted on the motion; the motion passed 3-2.  
Following the vote, the Board continued to discuss whether the directive was within the Board’s 
authority, as well as strategies for implementing the Board’s economic development goals.  
 
 The following day, the Town’s Economic Development Director resigned, leaving the 
Economic Development Office without any employees. 
 
 On October 15 at approximately 11:41 a.m., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on October 19 at 7:00 p.m.  The notice included, among other things, the heading “New 
Business,” and under that, the topic “15. Discuss process used to eliminate the economic 
development office.”  At some point on October 15, the Board posted an amended notice for the 
October 19 meeting which added the topic “16. Deliberation on motion made by Dan Burns and 
 
2 We note that the minutes of all of the Board meetings we reviewed are highly detailed, and we commend the Board 
and specifically staff members Patricia Battcock and Joyce MacMillan for the quality of the Board’s meeting 
minutes. 
3 Video of the August 17 meeting is available at 
https://billerica.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/2742?channel=3.  Video of the October 13 meeting is 
available at https://billerica.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/2882?channel=3. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
ratify, validate and confirm action taken on B.O.S. meeting of 10-13-20.”  On October 16 at 
approximately 1:00 p.m., the Board posted a further amended notice for the October 19 meeting 
which revised topic 16 to state: 
 
16. Agenda item (Amended) – Reconsideration and deliberation on a motion 
made by Selectmen Dan Burns at the October 13, 2020 Board of Selectmen 
meeting that the Board of Selectmen pursuant to their powers and duties under the 
Town Charter, section 3.2B whereas the Board of Selectmen, serving as the chief 
policy making agency of the town, responsible for the issuance of policy 
directives and guidelines to be followed by all town agencies serving unit it set 
forth a policy directive, to disband the Economic Development, and further to 
consider whether to ratify, validate, and confirm any action taken thereon.  
 
The Board convened on October 19 as scheduled.  During the discussion of topics 15 and 
16, the Board engaged in a protracted dialogue regarding the vote that had occurred at the 
October 13 meeting.  The Board again discussed whether it was within its authority to disband 
the Economic Development Office.  The Board also discussed advice it had received from its 
legal counsel regarding the vote and the Board’s authority.  Board member Burns then moved to 
reconsider and rescind the vote taken during the Board’s October 13 meeting to disband the 
Economic Development Office.  The motion passed unanimously.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies must list topics for discussion 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.4   
 
A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  
Nevertheless, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not 
listed on the meeting notice until the topic may be included on a meeting notice, unless the 
circumstances demand immediate action by the public body.  See OML 2013-197. 
 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law When it Discussed a Reasonably 
Anticipated Topic During its October 13 Meeting, Without Having Included the 
Topic on the Meeting Notice 
 
Both complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law during its October 
13 meeting when it discussed, and eventually voted to disband, the Economic Development 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Office, despite that topic not having been included on the meeting notice.  As a preliminary 
matter, we find that the meeting notice did not adequately notify the public that the Board would 
discuss this topic.  The discussion of the Economic Development Office was initiated by the 
Town Manager during the “Goals and Objectives” portion of the October 13 meeting.  We 
understand from a review of records of several meetings that the “Goals and Objectives” 
discussion on October 13 was in follow-up to the discussion that took place during the August 17 
meeting wherein the Board members identified goals and objectives for the Town Manager, 
including elimination of the Economic Development Office.  However, without additional 
context and detail, the topic “Goals and Objectives” as listed on the October 13 meeting notice 
was vague and did not meaningfully advise the public of the specific issues that would be 
discussed as part of a “goals and objectives” discussion.  See OML 2013-55 (“Although the 
notice topics as listed might have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting 
attendees, they were potentially unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the regular 
matters before the Board.”); OML 2020-132. 
 
Next, we consider the Board’ assertion that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate that a 
vote to dissolve the Economic Development Office would take place during the October 13 
meeting, as the motion was made by another Board member.  The issue here, however, is not 
whether a vote was anticipated, but whether discussion of the topic was anticipated, as the notice 
included no mention whatsoever of the topic.  Based on all of the information reviewed, and a 
consideration of the context of the “Goals and Objectives” discussion during the October 13 
meeting as a follow-up to the discussion during the August 17 meeting, we find that the 
discussion of the Economic Development Office was reasonably anticipated.  Indeed, economic 
development was a key component of the Board’s August 17 discussion of goals and objectives 
for the Town Manager and the Town more broadly; economic development and the Economic 
Development Office were discussed at length.  Therefore, it was reasonably anticipated that the 
Board’s October 13 follow-up discussion regarding goals and objectives would specifically 
include a discussion of economic development and the Economic Development Office, and the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing this reasonably anticipated topic without 
including it on the meeting notice. 
 
II. The Board Took Appropriate Remedial Action During its October 19 Meeting. 
 
Next, we consider whether the Board remedied the violation during its meeting on 
October 19.  Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative 
action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in 
violation of the law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 
125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew 
at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided.   
 
To determine whether the Board’s action during its October 19 meeting may have cured 
the October 13 violation, we first consider whether the notice for the October 19 meeting was 
sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the topics to be discussed.  Mr. Noel’s 
complaint alleges that the Board amended the notice for the October 19 meeting multiple times, 
and it was not until an amendment less than 48 hours in advance of the meeting that the notice 
contained the requisite level of detail to satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s specificity requirement.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We acknowledge that the Board amended the notice for the October 19 meeting multiple times 
both prior to and after the 48-hour deadline for posting notice, each time adding more detail and 
specificity regarding the discussion that was anticipated to address the October 13 discussion and 
vote.  Nonetheless, we find that the notice that was posted on October 15, more than 48 hours 
prior to the meeting not including weekends, was sufficiently specific where it included the 
topics “15. Discuss process used to eliminate the economic development office” and “16. 
Deliberation on motion made by Dan Burns and ratify, validate and confirm action taken on 
B.O.S. meeting of 10-13-20.”   
 
Next, we consider whether the Board’s discussion and action during its October 19 
meeting cured the violation that occurred during the October 13 meeting.  We find that it did.  
During the October 19 meeting, the Board discussed at length the vote that had occurred, and 
again discussed whether it was within the Board’s authority to disband the Economic 
Development Office.  Ultimately, the Board voted to rescind the vote taken during the Board’s 
October 13 meeting to disband the Economic Development Office.   
 
The fact that the Board’s October 19 discussion diverged in several respects from its 
October 13 discussion does not render the remedial action insufficient.  In fact, “independent, 
deliberative action” implies that the public body will deliberate anew at a meeting for which 
proper notice was posted; the discussion may well take a different course and result in a different 
outcome.  We find that the Board took appropriate remedial action when it properly posted 
notice for its October 19 meeting, reconsidered the discussion of disbanding the Economic 
Development Office, and ultimately voted to rescind the vote taken on October 13. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed a reasonably anticipated topic during its October 13 meeting, despite the topic 
not being included on the meeting notice.  However, we find that the Board took appropriate 
remedial action during its October 19 meeting, and we order no further remedial action. 
 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
cc: Edward Giroux (via e- mail: ) 
 George Noel (via e- mail:  
 Billerica Select Board Chair, Dan Burns (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
