===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 16,2019 
OML 2019-28
Cynthia Amara, Esq.
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Amara:
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on May 14 alleging that the 
Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 14, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 3. The complaint alleges that i) the 
minutes from the Committee’s January 29 meeting are inaccurate because they do not list a letter 
used by the Committee during the meeting; ii) the Committee should have met in executive 
session under Purpose 1 to discuss the reputation and character of an individual; and iii) two 
Committee members failed to complete the Open Meeting Law Certification form.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee’s January 29 meeting, as well as 
a video recording of that meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with the complainant on August 29 and 
August 30.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On January 25, the complainant requested from Town 
Clerk Carol Mayer “the signed and dated Open Meeting Law forms” for the five Committee 
members - Maryanne Sullivan, Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke, Jessica Reilly, Christopher Morrison,
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlEYm_Iio8o.

===PAGE 2===
and Timothy Bonfatti. On January 31, Clerk Mayer provided copies of records responsive to the 
complainant’s request but advised that she was unable to locate “OML receipts for Tim Bonfatti 
and Chris Morrison.” In response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, Timothy Bonfatti 
completed a new Open Meeting Law certification form on March 15, and Christopher Morrison 
completed a new certification form on March 29.
The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on Monday, January 29 at 7:00 
P.M. The notice listed the following topics: Executive Session, Public Hearing of the 2018-2019 
School Budget, Public Input, Approval of Minutes, New Business, Old Business, 
Superintendent’s Report to the Committee, Future Agenda Items, and Adjournment. Most of 
these topic headings included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the 
topics to be discussed. Specifically, “New Business” included a subheading for “Trip Request 
Approval” and “Other items since posting on January 24, 2018.”
The January 29 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining. At the conclusion of the 
executive session, the Committee reconvened in open session and held a public hearing. 
Superintendent Jeffrey Marsden presented a power point presentation on the upcoming school 
budget, after which the Committee invited public comment. The Committee closed the public 
hearing approximately two hours later and unanimously voted to recommend the approval of the 
Fiscal Year 2019 school budget at a 5.92% increase.
The Committee took a five-minute recess and then returned to discuss the two topics 
listed under “New Business.” It first approved a trip request for a Medfield High School club. 
The Committee next discussed the development of a safety procedure plan for all schools. Chair 
Maryanne Sullivan stated that there was “a letter in your packet” but she did not read the letter or 
otherwise reference the contents of the letter. She explained that she and other school officials 
recently met with the Medfield Police Chief regarding an incident that happened at the High 
School between a staff member and a parent.3 The Committee then discussed the 
implementation of a safety procedure plan to “ensure a safe working and learning environment” 
during after school hours. Superintendent Marsden stated that he would meet with school 
administrators to develop such a plan.
DISCUSSION
I. The January 29 Meeting Minutes are Accurate.
The complaint alleges that the minutes from the meeting held on January 29 are 
inaccurate because they “do not list or otherwise identify” a letter that the Committee referenced 
during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at
3 While Chair Sullivan did not mention the parent by name, the complainant admits that she is the parent in question 
and that the letter in the Committee packet was sent to her. The complainant provided a copy of the letter as part of 
her request for further review.
2

===PAGE 3===
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must 
also contain “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 
OML 2018-116.4 The Attorney General's Office considers a document to be “used” at a meeting 
when it is, at a minimum, physically present, verbally identified, and its contents are discussed 
by members of the public body during an open session. See OML 2018-116; OML 2012-42; 
OML 2011-18.
Here, Chair Sullivan verbally identified a letter that was included as part of the 
Committee’s packet for the meeting that evening. While we acknowledge that certain actions 
referenced in the letter may have prompted the Committee to discuss the implementation of a 
safety procedure plan, the actual content of the letter was never discussed during the meeting.
As such, we find that the letter was not “used” by the Committee and thus the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to list the letter in the minutes as a document used at 
the January 29 meeting.
II. The Committee was not Required under the Open Meeting Law to Meet in
Executive Session.
The complaint alleges that the Committee was required to meet in executive session 
where it discussed “a complaint about my alleged actions” at an after school meeting. The Open 
Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and 
decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 
Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated 
purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of 
the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§21 (a), (b). One executive session 
purpose allows a public body to enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual to be discussed 
during such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours 
prior to the proposed executive session and has the right to be present during deliberations, to 
have counsel present, and to speak on his own behalf. Id.
The Open Meeting Law does not, however, require public bodies to meet in executive 
session but rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it may do so only for 
one of the enumerated purposes and after following proper procedures. Here, the Committee did 
not convene in executive session to discuss the letter. Rather, Chair Sullivan mentioned in open 
session that a letter was included in the Committee members’ meeting packet. She did not 
identify the recipient of the letter nor did she read the letter or otherwise discuss its contents.
The Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to meet in executive session.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
III. The Committee Took Appropriate Remedial Action Upon Learning that Open
Meeting Law Certification Forms were Missing.
Finally, the complaint alleges that two Committee members, Christopher Morrison and 
Timothy Bonfatti, did not timely complete the Open Meeting Law certification form. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a 
public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of 
the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the 
educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and its 
application pursuant to section 19. ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a 
public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the 
consequences of violating it.” See G.L. c. 30A § 20; OML 2011-39. Here, Town Clerk Mayer 
could not locate certification forms for Committee members Bonfatti and Morrison, both of 
whom were re-elected in 2016. The Committee indicates that certification forms prior to 2017 
were destroyed. We find that the Committee took prompt remedial action in response to this 
complaint where both Mr. Bonfatti and Mr. Morrison refiled their Open Meeting Law 
certification forms with the Town Clerk upon learning that such forms were missing; thus we 
find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.5
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Kerry Ahne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Christine McCue Potts
Medfield School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5 We note that although the Open Meeting Law does not address in what form and for how long the certification 
forms must be retained, other laws do require the retention of such certification forms for a specified period of time. 
The retention schedule for municipal records promulgated by the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office may be 
found here, https://www.sec.state.ma.us/arc/arcpdf/Municipal_Retention_Schedule_20190321.pdf.
4
