===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 22, 2019 
OML 2019-104
Janelle M. Austin, Esq.
Timothy Zessin, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.,
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorneys Austin and Zessin:
This office received two complaints from Bryan Dumont on June 28 and August 25, 
alleging that the Shirley Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on June 4 and August 6, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by separate letters dated June 20 and October 23, 
respectively.2 The June complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to disclose the executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on February 27. The 
August complaint alleges that the executive session minutes of the February 27 meeting are 
insufficiently detailed.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
sufficient detail in its February 27 meeting minutes. We decline to review the allegation raised 
in the June complaint for the reasons discussed below. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice and executive 
session minutes of the Board’s February 27 meeting, as well as the notice and open session 
minutes of the Board’s June 18 meeting.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 We remind the public bodies that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
o

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
February 27 at 5:30 P.M. The notice listed one main topic, an executive session “to discuss 
complaints against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”
The February 27 meeting was held as planned. A Board member moved to enter into 
executive session “to discuss complaints and potential disciplinary action against an employee.” 
The Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. During 
the executive session, Town Legal Counsel Timothy Zessen provided a summary of the 
complaint allegations made against the Interim Town Administrator. The Board then recessed 
for approximately 40 minutes. During this recess, Attorney Zessen and the Interim Town 
Administrator discussed potential terms to be included in a separation agreement. Attorney 
Zessen and the Interim Town Administrator met outside the presence of the Board. Attorney 
Zessen and the Interim Town Administrator returned to the meeting and the Board then 
discussed the terms to be included in a separation agreement with the Interim Town 
Administrator, including five weeks of paid administrative leave and a resignation date of April 
6. The Board adjourned at 6:23 P.M.
On May 15, Mr. Dumont filed a public records request with the Shirley Town Clerk 
seeking the minutes of the Board’s February 27 executive session meeting. On May 29, the 
Town Clerk responded to Mr. Dumont’s request explaining that the minutes remained in draft 
form and had not yet been approved. The Town Clerk further stated that even when the minutes 
are approved, the minutes would be withheld from disclosure pursuant to exemption (c) of the 
Public Records Law because the minutes contained personnel information related to complaints 
against a specific public employee.
During a June 18 meeting, the Board convened in executive session and reviewed the 
executive session minutes of the February 27 meeting. The Board determined that the purpose 
for the executive session still remained and therefore disclosure of the executive session minutes 
was not warranted at that time. Mr. Dumont then filed the June complaint.
On or about June 28, Mr. Dumont also appealed the denial of his request for the February 
27 executive session meeting minutes to the Supervisor of Records (“Supervisor”) within the 
Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth. On July 12, the Supervisor ordered the Board to 
review the minutes, redact where necessary, and provide the minutes to Mr. Dumont.
On or about July 18, the Board provided Mr. Dumont with a copy of the February 27 
executive session meeting minutes. Mr. Dumont then appealed to the Supervisor suggesting that 
the minutes were insufficiently detailed. On July 26, the Supervisor closed the appeal declining 
“to provide a determination as to the content of open and executive session minutes” and referred 
Mr. Dumont to our office. Mr. Dumont then filed the August complaint.
2

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
The first complaint alleges that the Board failed to release the February 27 executive 
session meeting minutes when the purpose for nondisclosure had passed. The Board determined 
on June 18 that the purpose for the executive session warranted continued non-disclosure of the 
February 27 executive session meeting minutes. However, the Board subsequently provided Mr. 
Dumont with the February 27 executive session meeting minutes on or about July 18. Because 
the Board has now released those executive session minutes and provided them to Mr. Dumont, 
we decline to review this complaint.
The second complaint alleges that the February 27 meeting minutes are insufficiently 
detailed where they are “a vague summary of what took place in an executive session.” The 
Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).
Here, the Board met in executive session on February 27 under Purpose 1 to discuss 
complaints against the Interim Town Administrator. During the meeting, the Board reviewed the 
allegations and then discussed the terms of a separation agreement. The complaint specifically 
alleges that the meeting minutes failed to include the allegations against the Interim Town 
Administrator, who made the allegations, and the terms of the settlement agreement. When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.3 By substantial compliance, we 
mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. We note that, although the February 27 
meeting ran for approximately one hour, the Board actually met for about 20 minutes and 
recessed for 40 minutes, during which time, Town Legal Counsel and the Interim Town 
Administrator met privately to discuss the possibility of a separation agreement. In response to 
the complaint, the Board amended the minutes to reflect that a private discussion occurred during 
the Board’s recess. We commend the Board for taking such remedial action.
However, we find that the Board should have included additional detail about the specific 
terms it discussed with respect to the separation agreement between the Town and the Interim 
Town Administrator. The minutes simply state that the Board “deliberated over terms of a 
proposed separation agreement” but do not include any detail about the actual terms that were 
discussed. See OML 2014-67. Thus, the Board failed to include in its minutes a sufficient 
summary of the discussion on this subject. As for the allegation that the minutes fail to include 
sufficient detail regarding the nature of the complaints against the Interim Town Administrator,
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
we find that the Board did not actually discuss the complaints but rather Town Legal Counsel 
provided a summary of the allegations to the Board, and therefore the minutes include the 
minimum that the Open Meeting Law requires. Although the content of meeting minutes beyond 
those minimum requirements is left to the discretion of the public body, we encourage public 
bodies to include additional detail when possible. See OML 2012-94.
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the Board’s 
executive session discussions during the February 27 meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires 
that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). One executive session purpose allows a 
public body to enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline 
or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). A public body may also convene 
in executive session “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).
Here, the Board convened in executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss complaints 
against the Interim Town Administrator. Although Town Legal Counsel summarized the 
complaints against the Interim Town Administrator at the beginning of the meeting, the Board 
did not further discuss those allegations, even though such discussions would have been 
appropriate under Purpose 1. Instead, the Board discussed terms to be included in a separation 
agreement with the Interim Town Administrator. This discussion was not appropriate under 
Purpose 1. Such discussions would have fit within the parameters of Purpose 2 as the 
discussions related to contract negotiations. See OML 2017-69; OML 2013-184. However, the 
Board only convened in executive session on February 27 under Purpose 1 to discuss 
“complaints and possible disciplinary action” against Interim Town Administrator. We remind 
the Board that an executive session must remain focused on only those matters for which the 
executive session was lawfully called. We understand that the Board has since released the 
minutes of the February 27 executive session as well as the separation agreement between the 
Town and the Interim Town Administrator, and therefore we do not order further remedial 
action.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient 
detail in its February 27 meeting minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We further order the Board to revise its 
February 27 executive session minutes to reflect the terms that the Board discussed with respect 
to the separation agreement within thirty (30) days from receipt of this letter.4
4 The Board must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order to revise the February 27 
meeting minutes within 30 days of receipt of this letter. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).
4

===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Bryan Dumont
Shirley Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
