===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. m ass, go v/ago 
May 10, 2016 
OML 2016-61 
Frances Parks, Chair 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
P.O. Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Parks: 
This office received a complaint from Amy McGuire Kates, dated February 18, 2016, 
alleging that the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
January 19, 2016, and the Committee responded by letter dated January 25, 2016. In her 
complaint, Ms. Kates alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of an open meeting.1 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We spoke with the Committee Chair by 
telephone on March 14 and April 26, 2016.2 We also spoke with Committee member Stanley 
Goldstein by telephone on May 3, 2016. Finally, we listened to an audio recording of a meeting 
of the Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners held on November 10, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. On October 22, 2015, Cotuit Fire Commissioner Ronald Mycock 
wrote a letter addressed to Committee Chair Frances Parks and Fire District Clerk Charles Eager 
stating his intention to resign from his position as Fire Commissioner. 
The Board of Fire Commissioners, also a three-member public body, held a meeting on 
November 10, 2015. During this meeting, the remaining two Commissioners stated that they 
1 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Committee was obligated to discuss the Fire Commissioner's 
resignation, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not obligate a public body to discuss any topic. See OML 
2015-73. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
would work together collaboratively until a town election could be held to fill the third spot, and, 
if serving with two Commissioners proved unworkable, they would ask the Committee to 
appoint a replacement for Mr. Mycock. This discussion was held in open session. 
On December 14, 2015, a member of the public sent an e-mail to the three Committee 
members which read as follows: 
I am writing to request that you place on your next meeting agenda discussion on the 
vacant Fire Commissioners position and the benefits or disadvantages of appointing a 
temporary member or waiting [until the] May 2016 election to fill that position. I am 
also notifying the committee of my interest to fill that vacant position. 
On that same date, the Committee Chair replied by e-mail, copying the other two 
Committee members, as follows: 
The Fire Commissioners have told the Prudential Committee that they do not need a third 
member appointed at this time. If they are unable to work with two members they will 
notify the Prudential Committee. 
The Committee held a meeting on December 21, 2015. The same member of the public 
who e-mailed the Committee was present, and she requested that the Committee discuss the 
vacancy. The minutes of the December 21,2015 meeting reflect that the Chair made the 
following statement: 
Mr. Mycock's resignation. I believe I didn Y get his letter until the 1st of November. I 
went to the November meeting of the fire commissioners and they voted not to ask for a 
third person to be appointed to their board and I think this board should respect that. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as a "deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public 
body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing 
provision." Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee discussed the Fire Commissioner's 
resignation outside of a noticed meeting. In conversation with our office, the complainant 
alleged that Mr. Goldstein stated to members of the public following the December 21, 2015 
meeting that he had heard about the resignation from the Chair. In conversation with our office, 
Mr. Goldstein denied making this statement. Based on these conflicting versions of events, we 
make no finding with respect to this allegation. However, we find that the December 14, 2015 e-
mail sent by the Chair, on which the other two Committee members were copied, constituted 
deliberation outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 2014-148. This e-mail constituted 
communication on a topic within the Committee's jurisdiction to a quorum of its members. See 
2 
===PAGE 3===
G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (defining "Deliberation" to include communication by electronic mail between 
or among a quorum of a public body). While we recognize that this e-mail was sent in response 
to an e-mail sent to all Committee members by a member of the public, in order to be in 
compliance with the law, the Chair should have responded directly to that individual without 
copying the other Committee members. Alternatively, the Committee could have discussed this 
issue during a properly noticed meeting. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Committee to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law 
Guide, available at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting and to certify in writing to this office, using 
the attached form, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter that its members have reviewed 
this determination and the Guide. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Lhis 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Amy McGuire Kates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 We note that the Committee was ordered to complete the same remedy in a determination letter issued by our 
office on October 28, 2013. See OML 2013-158. Because the Committee members have changed since that time, 
we do not consider the violation addressed in this letter to be intentional. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2016-61 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Guide on . 
(date) 
Committee Member Signature Date 
4 