===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 14, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 227 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Sultan Durzi, Esq. 
Kathryn M. Walker, Esq. 
City of Boston Law Department 
One City Hall Square 
Boston, MA 02184 
 
sultan.durzi@boston.gov 
kathryn.walker@boston.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Counsel: 
 
This office received three complaints alleging that the Boston City Council (“Council”) 
and the Boston City Council Committee on Redistricting (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25: 
 
• Complaint filed by Attorney Paul Gannon with the Boston City Council and the 
Boston City Council Committee on Redistricting on October 25, 2022 (Response 
dated November 2, 2022; Received by this office January 5, 2023); 
• Complaint filed by Attorney John Lyons with the Boston City Council on November 
1, 2022 (Response dated November 15, 2022; Received by this office February 1, 
2023); and 
• Complaint filed by Brian Cullinane with the Boston City Council on April 13, 2023 
(Response dated May 4, 2023; Received by this office May 8, 2023).
1 
 
1 The complaint filed by Brian Cullinane would appear to be time-barred.  A complaint alleging a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  
If the violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).   Brian Cullinane filed his 
complaint on April 13, 2023, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law on September 27, 2022.  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
     The complaints stem from actions that city councilors took in furtherance of their work 
on legislative redistricting in the City of Boston.  Together, the three complaints allege that at 
various times and in various settings, a quorum of the Committee and / or of the Council 
deliberated outside of publicly noticed meetings.  The Council and Committee have responded to 
each allegation with one or more of the following arguments: (a) the event in question did not 
constitute a meeting; (b) there was no deliberation at the event; and (c) to the extent that there 
was any violation of the Open Meeting Law, it was cured by subsequent publicly noticed 
meetings.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  We have 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the responses of the Council and Committee, and 
the requests for further review.  We also reviewed the Memorandum and Order on Plaintiffs’ 
Motion for Preliminary Injunction, in the matter of Walters, et al. v. Boston City Council, et al., 
Case No. 1:22-12048-PBS (D. Mass. 2022).           
 
FACTS  
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  Following the 2020 census, the Council was tasked 
with redistricting to account for population growth in the City of Boston.  To that end, the 
Council held public meetings and working sessions, took testimony, heard presentations from 
redistricting experts, reviewed maps and discussed legal requirements that control establishment 
of voting districts, among other things.  The Council also established the Committee, composed 
of members of the Council, which held meetings in person and remotely.   
 
The following chronology includes some, but not all, of the events at which the 
complainants allege members of the Committee and / or Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a posted meeting: 
 
• September 27, 2022 (Lena Park Community Development Corporation)  
• September 27, 2022 (Boston City Hall)  
• October 10, 2022 (Bruce C. Bolling Building)  
• October 18, 2022 (Press conference at City Hall Plaza) 
• October 19, 2022 (Condon School) 
 
After the last of the alleged meetings referenced in the complaints, the meeting of 
October 19, 2002, at the Condon School, the Council held five properly noticed meetings, 
hearings and working sessions regarding redistricting on October 20, 2022, October 21, 2022, 
October 24, 2022 (working session and hearing), and October 25, 2022.  These meetings 
included substantive discussions and public testimony.  The Council also held a training on Open 
Meeting Law on October 28, 2022.  The Council voted to approve a new district map on May 24, 
2023.  On May 26, 2023, Mayor Michelle Wu signed the ordinance adopting the new map.  The 
new map will become effective January 1, 2024. 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that 
“[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  Additionally, we have 
explained that a public body may not deliberate in a serial fashion whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within the 
public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2023-176; OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; McCrea v. 
Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the 
spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law).2 
 
 The Open Meeting Law does not prohibit a quorum of members of a public body merely 
from being in the same place at the same time; indeed, the Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“meeting” specifically excludes “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private 
gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long 
as the members do not deliberate.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  Therefore, where a community forum 
does not include any deliberation by members of a public body, it does not constitute a 
“meeting” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-19.  For example, in one case 
arising out of a new school project, the design team and project manager spoke at a public forum 
to provide information to the general public and answer their questions.  The chair of the school 
building committee also spoke at the forum.  Other committee members in attendance neither 
addressed each other nor sat together.  Under the circumstances, we found that the committee did 
not deliberate at the community forum.  Id.  Similarly, where a quorum of the Malden City 
Council was present at a community meeting and several councilors shared their opinions, we 
found no deliberation as they spoke in the same manner as other members of the public and did 
not engage directly with each other. See OML 2023-93.  See also OML 2023-210 (Board of 
Selectmen did not deliberate when they talked to third graders at elementary school assembly).   
 
Furthermore, when analyzing whether deliberation occurred at a public forum, the 
speaker’s intent in communicating is a significant factor that must be examined.  See OML 2023-
93; OML 2017-111.  To discern the intent of multiple speakers at the five or more events 
referenced in the complaints here would require a fact-intensive investigation.  Additionally, the 
complaints in the instant matter present other contested factual issues as well.  For example, the 
Council denies that members serially discussed redistricting in the offices of City Hall.   
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 The complainants have alleged that City Counselors deliberated on at least five 
occasions, at meetings that were not properly noticed.  The Council and Committee have 
acknowledged that a quorum attended at least three of these events but, as noted above, argue 
that no deliberation took place.  For the following reasons, we need not resolve this issue.   
 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action 
that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2023-146.  First, as noted by the U.S. District Court in its Order 
and Memorandum, the Council held several properly noticed meetings after the events at issue in 
the complaints, and voted to approve the new redistricting map at a properly noticed public 
meeting.3  As the Court explained, the deliberations at these meetings were not merely 
perfunctory ratification of the alleged deliberations at issue in the complaints and likely cured 
any violation.  Second, the new redistricting map now has been adopted and will shortly go into 
effect, following court involvement including but not limited to six days of evidentiary hearings.  
Even with a significant amount of factual investigation into the circumstances, communications, 
and intentions of the Councilors at the various events referenced by the complainants and review 
of subsequent meetings to evaluate their curative effect, there is little that this office would be 
able to add to the Court’s analysis.  We, too, are satisfied that the several properly noticed 
meetings that the Council held in late October 2022, as well as further meetings in May 2023 
culminating in the vote on May 24, 2023, satisfactorily cured any violations of the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged in the complaint.  Although we need not decide whether the Council or 
Committee committed a violation of the Open Meeting Law at this stage, the complaints are not 
without merit and we note our concern about attendance at the community events referenced in 
the complaints, especially that of October 19.  We are encouraged that the Council held a 
training on Open Meeting Law following the filing of the first complaint, and reiterate the 
guidance provided above regarding the Open Meeting Law’s definitions of “deliberation” and 
“meeting.”     
 
  
 
3 The Court noted that the meeting of October 19, 2022 likely violated the Open Meeting Law.  Indeed, in its 
response dated November 2, 2022, the Council acknowledges that a quorum attended this meeting and discussed 
redistricting.  Rather than vigorously contest that deliberation occurred, the Council argues that any violation was 
cured by independent deliberative action.  The Court found that the defendants likely would prevail in establishing 
the violation was cured.  
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that any violations of the Open Meeting Law that
may have occurred, as alleged in the complaint, were cured by independent, deliberative action,
and we order no further remedial action. We now consider the complaints addressed by this
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may
be pending with the Council, Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Matt you
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Paul Gannon, Esq. (via email
John Lyons, Esq. (via email:
Brian Cullinane (via email:
Boston City Council (via email: city.council@boston.gov)
Boston City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@boston.gov)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5