===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 21 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kathleen E. Degnan, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor, City of Holyoke   
20 Korean Veterans Plaza 
City Hall Annex, Suite 204  
Holyoke, MA 01040-5019  
degnank@holyoke.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Degnan: 
 
This office received a complaint from City Councilor Linda Vacon on May 21, 2025,
1 
alleging that the Holyoke City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about March 18, and 
you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated April 2.2 The complaint alleges that a 
group that included City Council President Tessa Murphy-Romboletti, Councilor Meagan 
Magrath-Smith, the Mayor, and “members of the personnel and law departments and others” 
constituted a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and that this group failed to comply 
with the Open Meeting Law by failing to post meeting notices, hold meetings open to the public, 
and create and maintain meeting minutes. We also understand the complaint to allege that, due to 
their involvement in the group, Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith must have 
improperly deliberated outside of a posted meeting where they constituted a quorum of the 
Council’s Charter and Rules Committee. 
 
Following our review, we find that the group in question was not a public body for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law and that Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Council asserts that the complaint was received on April 1; however, the complaint was included as a topic on 
the notice for the Council’s April 1 meeting, which was posted on March 28. Therefore, we find it is more likely that 
the complaint was received sometime on or about March 18. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
did not improperly deliberate outside of a posted meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s response, the request for further 
review, and a video recording of an April 7 meeting of the Charter and Rules Committee.3 We 
also reviewed a March 13 letter written by Ms. Murphy-Romboletti as well as affidavits 
submitted to our office by Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith. Finally, we also 
communicated with the Council’s attorney by telephone and email.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. Around the time of the events of the complaint, the 
City of Holyoke was making efforts to modernize its finance department.  
 
The Council is a thirteen-member public body; therefore, seven members constitute a 
quorum. The Council has several standing committees, including the Charter and Rules 
Committee. The Charter and Rules Committee (the “Committee”) is a three-member public 
body; therefore, two members constitute a quorum. At the time of the events of the complaint, 
the Committee’s membership included Ms. Murphy-Romboletti, Ms. Magrath-Smith, and the 
complainant, Councilor Linda Vacon. According to the City’s website, the Committee’s 
jurisdiction concerns “[m]atters related to review and amendment of the City Charter and 
Holyoke City Council Rules.” 
 
On or about March 14, the City Clerk emailed the full Council an agenda and documents 
for an upcoming Council meeting. Included with these documents was a letter dated March 13 
written by Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and addressed to the Council. In the letter, Ms. Murphy-
Romboletti explained that a working group had been formed and was meeting bi-weekly “to 
assess necessary ordinance changes, job descriptions, and potential charter revisions.” The letter 
further explained that “we have identified several other necessary ordinance changes, some of 
which are time-sensitive. To streamline this process and avoid a fragmented, piecemeal 
approach, we intend to introduce the Holyoke Municipal Finance Modernization Act—a 
comprehensive legislative package.” Finally, the letter explained that the working group was 
comprised of Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and “the Mayor, Treasurer, Chairs of [the] Ordinance 
[Committee] and [the] Charter and Rules [Committee], and members of the Personnel and Law 
departments,” and that the group was “also leveraging the expertise of the City’s contracted 
financial consultant, TJ Plante.”  
 
On April 7 the Committee held a meeting during which it was presented with a plan to 
adopt changes and modernize the City’s finance department, including the proposed Municipal 
Finance Modernization Act of 2025.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
3 A video recording of the April 7 meeting was accessed at https://www.holyoke.org/meetings/charter-and-rules-
committee-meeting-april-7-2025/#/tab-video.   
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We find that the group referenced in Ms. Murphy-Romboletti’s March 13 letter was 
not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body” as any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law further explains 
“that a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.” Id.  
 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 
 
1) the entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body”; 
2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3) the entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.
5  
 
We have found that an entity does not satisfy the second prong of the public body 
analysis where it serves an administrative function by compiling data and providing information 
to the municipality but has no quorum requirement, takes no votes, makes no formal 
recommendations to a public body and is not empowered with decision-making or policy-
advisory authority. See OML 2023-149; OML 2023-231; OML 2013-56. Additionally, we have 
consistently found that groups of employees who work together to carry out their job duties, 
which groups lack a fixed membership and are not empowered to take collective action, are not 
public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-56 (explaining that city 
planning department staff who worked together to review wetlands ordinances and propose 
amendments for consideration by the city council did not constitute a public body); OML 2021-
150 (explaining that a group of federal, state, and local employees who coordinated on a project 
was not a public body where the group lacked a defined membership and set quorum and was not 
empowered to act collectively); OML 2015-41 (“Though several individuals work for the 
Agency, it is not a multiple member body empowered to act collectively because it does not have 
a fixed membership requiring a vote by a quorum of members in order to make decisions and 
conduct business.”). 
 
The complaint alleges that the working group referenced in Ms. Murphy-Romboletti’s 
March 13 letter to the Council constitutes a public body under the Open Meeting Law and 
violated the Law by failing to post meeting notices, hold meetings open to the public, or create 
meeting minutes. In its response and in additional communications with our office, the Council 
maintains that the working group was created by the Mayor for the purpose of gathering 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
information to assist the Mayor in efforts to modernize the City’s finance department. 
Specifically, the group worked on the Municipal Finance Modernization Act presented during 
the Committee’s April 7 meeting. The Council further maintains that the group, which consisted 
primarily of City employees, did not have a set membership or a quorum requirement; that it 
would meet regardless of the number of individuals present; that it did not take formal votes; and 
that it was not empowered with any decision-making or policy-advisory authority. Finally, the 
Council explains that the proposed Municipal Finance Modernization Act, which the group was 
formed to assist with, was drafted by the City’s financial consultant and Treasurer. 
 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Council’s account of the facts. 
See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of 
Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983). Therefore, we find that the working group fails the second 
prong of the public body analysis where it was not empowered to act collectively. As such, the 
working group was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2025-215 
(group not public body subject to the Open Meeting Law where it failed the second prong of the 
public body test); OML 2024-118 (same); OML 2015-83 (same).6 
 
II. We find that Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith did not improperly 
deliberate outside of a posted meeting regarding matters within the Committee’s 
jurisdiction.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that is open to the public, unless an executive session has been properly 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(a) & (b). The Law defines “deliberation” broadly as any 
communication “between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law does include a few exceptions to the definition of 
deliberation for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of 
other procedural meeting [information] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” Id. 
A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the 
body’s jurisdiction is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 
2020-136; OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. Moreover, the Open Meeting Law 
does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for communications that do 
not result in a decision or vote, and a public body may not engage in serial communication 
whereby a quorum of the body communicates outside of a proper meeting on matters within the 
body’s jurisdiction in a non-contemporaneous manner. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 
2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent 
the intent of the Law). 
 
 
6 Because we decide that the group was not a public body because it failed the second prong of the public body test, 
we need not reach the question of whether, as the Council asserts, the group fell within the exception to the 
definition of “public body” established by the Supreme Judicial Court in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 
409 Mass. 232 (1991).  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We understand the complaint to allege that because Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. 
Magrath-Smith constituted a quorum of the Committee and were involved with the working 
group, which worked on a matter that came before the Committee, they must have improperly 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting.  
 
In response to a request from our office for more information regarding communications 
between Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith, each provided an affidavit swearing 
that they did not communicate with each other about matters within the jurisdiction of the 
Committee. Specifically, Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith each assert that they 
did not communicate with each other regarding the Municipal Finance Modernization Act, “nor 
any ordinance changes, job descriptions, salary changes, or potential charter changes referred to 
in [the March 13] letter because those changes were all inclusive of the [Municipal Finance 
Modernization Act] and were drafted by” the City’s financial consultant and Treasurer. The 
affidavits assert that the only communication between Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. 
Magrath-Smith that occurred outside of a posted meeting concerned the procedures for holding a 
joint meeting of the Ordinance Committee and the Charter and Rules Committee. Finally, Ms. 
Magrath-Smith asserts that to the extent there were bi-weekly meetings, she did not attend these 
as her schedule would not have allowed her to. Based on the information before us, we find that 
Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting 
regarding the Municipal Finance Modernization Act and related topics.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the working group referenced in Ms. Murphy-
Romboletti’s March 13 letter was not a public body for purposes of the Open Meeting Law and 
that Ms. Murphy-Romboletti and Ms. Magrath-Smith did not deliberate outside of a posted 
meeting regarding matters within the Committee’s jurisdiction.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
cc: Tessa R. Murphy- Romboletti, President, Holyoke City Council  
(via email: tessaforholyoke@gmail.com)  
 Meg Magrath-Smith, Councilor, Holyoke City Council  
(via email: ) 
Linda Vacon, Councilor, Holyoke City Council 
(via email: ) 
Holyoke City Clerk (via email: clerks@holyoke.org) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
