===PAGE 1===
   
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.goviago 
June 3, 2013 
OML 2013 — 73 
Jeffrey Bernstein, Esq. 
BCK Law P.C. 
One Gateway Center, Suite 809 
Newton, MA 02458 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Bernstein: 
This office received two Open Meeting Law complaints from Mr. Eric Bibler, dated July 
3, 2012 and July 6, 2012, alleging that the Governing Boards of the Cape Light Compact 
("CLC") and the Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc. ("CVEC") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The July 3, 2012 complaint specifically alleges that the 
CLC Governing Board either "conducted an unnoticed and illegal meeting  for the purpose of 
considering, and approving the letter that [Chairman William] Doherty publicly presented to the 
Assembly as CLC's official response to the Special Committee report" at its May 31, 2012 
meeting, or that "Mr. Doherty misrepresented  his personal views representing the consensus of 
the CLC board of directors and the organizations as a whole." (emphasis in original). The 
complaint was originally filed with the CLC on June 26, 2012. The CLC responded to the 
complaint by letter dated July 3, 2012. 
The July 6, 2012 complaint alleges that the CVEC Governing Board or its Executive 
Committee either conducted "an unnoticed and illegal meeting  for the purpose of considering, 
and approving, the letter that [President Charles] McLaughlin publicly presented to the 
Assembly as CVEC's official response to the Special Committee report" at its June 1, 2012 
meeting, or that President McLaughlin "misrepresented  his personal views as representing the 
consensus of the CVEC board of directors and the organization as a whole." (emphasis in 
original). The complaint was originally filed with the CVEC on June 1, 2012. The CVEC 
responded to the complaint by letter dated July 5, 2012. 
oa 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that the Governing Boards of the CVEC and the CLC did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination with regards to the July 3, 2012 
complaint, we reviewed the June 26, 2012 complaint filed with the CLC Governing Board; the 
CLC's July 3, 2012 response; and the July 3, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the CLC Governing Board's July 11, 2012 meeting minutes; an email from Mr. Bibler 
addressed to our office, dated July 18, 2012, providing additional information with respect to his 
complaint; an email from CLC Administrator Margaret Downey, dated July 20, 2012, sent to our 
office in response to Mr. Bibler's July 18, 2012 email; and the minutes of the Board's May 9, 
2012 meeting. In reaching a determination with regards to the July 6, 2012 complaint, we 
reviewed the June 1, 2012 complaint filed with the CVEC Governing Board; the CVEC's July 5, 
2012 response; the July 6, 2012 complaint filed with our office; and an email dated September 
18, 2012 from CVEC President Charles McLaughlin, provided to our office by the CVEC. 
FACTS 
The Cape Light Compact was formed in 1997 through an inter-governmental agreement, 
pursuant to G.L. c. 164, §134; G.L. c. 25A, § 6; and G.L. c. 40, § 4A. The CLC Board is a 23 
member body, consisting of Barnstable County, Dukes County, and all of the 21 municipalities 
located within these counties on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard. The purposes of the CLC 
include aggregating consumers as part of the competitive market for electricity; negotiating the 
best terms and conditions for electricity supply; and supporting environmental protection, energy 
efficiency, and renewable energy development. The CLC is funded through ratepayer funds, 
federal and state grants, county general funds, and administrative charges levied on electricity 
sold through the CLC's aggregated power supply contract with its private competitive electric 
supplier. The CLC Governing Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
The Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc., was formed out of a strategic planning 
process commissioned and undertaken by the CLC. The CVEC was organized in 2007 with 
three members: CLC, Barnstable County, and the Town of Barnstable. Currently, the CVEC has 
19 members consisting of 16 towns, Barnstable and Dukes County, and the CLC. The CVEC's 
long term goal is to develop electric generation projects or contracts to stabilize electric rates for 
all CLC customers. The CLC does not have the authority to develop electric generation projects. 
The CVEC Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
The CVEC and the CLC have entered into an administrative agreement with Barnstable 
County so that Barnstable County can perform certain administrative and fiscal functions for 
both the CVEC and the CLC. The two entities share a close relationship, with some individual 
municipal representatives serving on both boards. The CLC also finances the CVEC. 
In the Spring of 2011, several individuals and groups appeared before the Barnstable 
County Commissioners and the Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates to complain about the 
CLC's and the CVEC's alleged lack of transparency. On August 3, 2011, the Barnstable County 
Assembly of Delegates passed a resolution creating a subcommittee to investigate and create a 
report regarding the relationship between the CLC and the CVEC. On May 2, 2012, the Special 
Committee of Inquiry on the Cape Light Compact and the Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative 
(the "Special Committee") approved its final report. During the CLC Governing Board's 
meeting on May 9, 2012, the Board circulated a draft response to the Special Committee's report. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
On May 31, 2012, CLC Chair William Doherty sent the Special Committee a twenty-five page 
letter in response to the Special Committee's report. The letter included the following heading, 
"Cape Light Compact's Response to Assembly Committee on Inquiry into Cape Light 
Compact." The introductory paragraph of the letter states: 
The Cape Light Compact ("CLC") Governing Board is in receipt of the Report to the 
Barnstable County of Delegates from the Special Committee on Inquiry into Cape Light 
Compact (CLC) and Cape & Vineyard Cooperative, Inc. (CVEC) dated May 2, 2012 (the 
"Report"). I am responding to the Report on behalf of the CLC Governing Board. 
During the CLC Governing Board's July 11, 2012 meeting, Chair Doherty explained that 
he had to respond quickly to the Special Committee, thus he submitted the letter on behalf of the 
Board without its vote of approval. The Board then discussed the authority of the Chair to act on 
behalf of the Board. 
During the CVEC Board of Directors meeting on May 23, 2012, CVEC President Charles 
McLaughlin reported that he was in the process of drafting a response to the Special 
Committee's report. On June 1, 2012, President McLaughlin sent the Special Committee an 
eleven page letter in response to the Special Committee's report. The letter included the 
following heading, "Response of CVEC to the Barnstable County Assembly of Delegates." The 
introductory paragraph of the letter states, in part: 
Responding to a request of the County Commissioners for an opportunity to discuss the 
workings and accomplishments of the Cape and Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
("CVEC"), its board of directors elected to voluntarily participate in the Assembly's 
Special Committee (the "Committee") hearings. 
In an email dated September 18, 2012, President McLaughlin explains that the Special 
Committee "accelerated the process and the matter was taken up in early June. Alerted to this 
schedule, I prepared and submitted my response without any consultation with any member of 
the Board." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
then body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; however, that 'deliberation' shall not 
include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting [material] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed 
at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. A "quorum" is "a simple 
majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special 
law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
In both complaints, Mr. Bibler alleges that the Chairs either deliberated with members of 
3 
===PAGE 4===
their respective Governing Boards outside of a meeting, or else acted unilaterally without 
approval, in issuing a letter in response to the Special Committee's report. The Open Meeting 
Law does not govern the authority of individual public body members to act, thus we decline to 
review this allegation and consider only whether there was improper deliberation by the Boards. 
The complaint against the CLC alleges that the Chair communicated with a quorum of 
the Governing Board outside of an open meeting in order to receive approval to issue a response 
to the Special Committee's report. The minutes of the CLC Governing Board's May 9, 2012 
meeting show that the Chair circulated a draft response to the Special Committee's report during 
that meeting. The Chair then submitted a letter to the Special Committee on May 31, 2012. 
During the CLC Governing Board's July 11, 2012 meeting, Chair Doherty explained that he had 
to respond quickly to the Special Committee and that he submitted the letter on behalf of the 
Board without its vote of approval. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
Chair's account, and find that the Chair did not communicate with a quorum of the Board 
members outside of a meeting, thus the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint against the CVEC similarly alleges that the President communicated with 
a quorum of the Board of Directors outside of an open meeting in order to receive approval to 
issue a response to the Special Committee's report. The President of the CVEC Board of 
Directors reported to the Board on May 23, 2012 that he was drafting a response to the Special 
Committee's report. In an email provided to our office, President McLaughlin explains that he 
"prepared and submitted [his] response without any consultation with any member of the Board." 
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, we credit the President's account and find that the 
President did not communicate with a quorum of the Board outside of a meeting in preparing and 
sending a letter on behalf of the CVEC to the Special Committee. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that neither the Governing Board of the CLC nor the CVEC Board of Directors 
violated the Open Meeting Law when their respective chairs issued letters on behalf of the 
Boards in response to the Special Committee's report. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the CLC or the CVEC. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
na an clarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Eric Bibler, Save Our Seashore 
Cape Light Compact 
4 
===PAGE 5===
cc: 	 Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 