===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Jean E. Zeiler, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
March 6, 2017 
OML 2017-34 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Zeiler: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Nancy Souza, dated November 21, 2016, alleging 
that the Old Colony Regional Vocational Lechnical High School District Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Lhe complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on September 20, 2016, and, after an extension of time was 
granted, the Committee responded by letter dated October 27, 2016. In her complaint, Ms. 
Souza alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) convening in executive 
session without a proper statutory purpose, (ii) failing to follow proper procedure before entering 
executive session, and (iii) failing to create and approve meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee convened in executive session without 
a proper statutory purpose and failed to follow proper procedure before entering executive 
session. However, we find that the Committee approved meeting minutes in a timely manner. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
Ms. Souza's request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During a May 18, 2016 meeting, the Committee appointed 
thirteen individuals, including the complainant, to a preliminary screening committee (the 
"Search Committee"). The Search Committee consisted of five Committee members and eight 
community members, including the complainant. The Search Committee's mission was to 
review applicants for a vacant school superintendent position. It was the Committee's practice to 
approve the minutes of Search Committee meetings. The Committee generally holds meetings 
every other month. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Search Committee met in executive session on July 13 and 27, 2016 to review 
applications from superintendent candidates. During these meetings, the Search Committee also 
reviewed a list of questions for the candidates. The Search Committee also held meetings on 
August 11, 17, and 24, 2016. Ultimately, the Search Committee produced a list of finalists to be 
reviewed by the Committee. 
The Committee held a meeting on August 31, 2016. During this meeting, the Committee 
discussed the work of the Search Committee. The Committee voted to enter executive session, 
although the chair did not state whether the Committee would reconvene in open session. While 
in executive session, the Committee members discussed questions to ask the finalists for the 
superintendent position during public interviews. 
The Committee held another meeting on September 14, 2016. During this meeting, the 
Committee voted to approve the minutes of the August 31, 2016 Committee meeting, as well as 
the minutes of Search Committee meetings held in July and August. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Failed to Follow Proper Procedure Before Convening in 
Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Before convening in executive session, the chair must state the purpose for 
the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2015-14.1 
The complaint alleges that the Committee entered executive session during its August 31, 
2016 meeting without the chair stating whether the Committee would reconvene in open session. 
Indeed, the Committee concedes that this statement was not made. This omission violated the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-147. 
II. The Committee Entered Executive Session Without a Proper Statutory Purpose. 
In order to convene in executive session, a public body's anticipated discussion must fit 
within one of ten statutoiy purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a); OML 2016-12. The complaint 
alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by preparing interview questions 
during its August 31, 2016 executive session. Indeed, we have stated in past determinations that 
the preparation of interview questions is not appropriate for executive session. See OML 2016-
105. We therefore conclude that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
this allegation. Id. We note that the Committee's response indicates that the Committee now 
understands its obligations under the Open Meeting Law in this regard and will prepare interview 
questions in open session in the future. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that the Search Committee improperly convened in executive 
session to prepare interview questions on July 13 and 27, 2016. Complaints alleging violations 
of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been 
known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date when the violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
Here, the complainant was a member of the Search Committee and was therefore aware that the 
Search Committee was entering executive session to prepare interview questions. Accordingly, 
any complaint relating to the July 13 and 27, 2016 meetings should have been filed within 30 
days of those meetings. Because the complaint was filed on September 20, 2016, we find that 
these allegations are untimely and we decline to review them. See OML Declination 11-21-2016 
(Middleton Planning Board). 
111. The Committee Approved Minutes in a Timely Manner. 
All open and executive session minutes must be created and approved in a timely 
manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). While the law does not define "timely manner," a public body 
should approve minutes at its next meeting where possible. See OML 2012-91. For bodies that 
meet regularly—that is, either weekly or bimonthly—we have concluded that a delay or two to 
three months in approving minutes does not comply with the law. See OML 2016-118. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to approve the minutes of Search 
Committee meetings in a timely manner. As an initial matter, we note that the Open Meeting 
Law does not specify the manner in which minutes need to be approved. See OML 2015-26; 
OML 2014-126. Where a parent public body has sufficient connection to or control over a 
subordinate public body, such as a subcommittee or a preliminary screening committee, we 
conclude that it is a permissible practice for one public body to approve the minutes of another 
public body. Because the Committee met only periodically during the time period at issue, we 
find that the Committee approved the Search Committee minutes within a reasonable period of 
time, and we therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Furthermore, 
because the August 31, 2016 executive session was not held for a proper purpose, the Committee 
may not redact or withhold these minutes or any portion thereof based on privilege or any 
exemption under the Public Records Law. See OML 2015-10. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganafo 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Old Colony Regional Vocational Technical High School District Committee 
Nancy Souza 
This determination was issued pursuant to G,L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 