===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
April 8, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 74 
 
 
BY EMAIL 
 
Carter Terenzini  
Interim Town Administrator 
Town of Boxborough 
29 Middle Road 
Boxborough, Massachusetts 01719  
 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Mr. Terenzini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard on January 11, 2022, alleging that 
the Boxborough Finance Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically Committee Chair 
Becky Neville, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about December 11, 2021, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Committee, by letter dated December 27, 2021.1  The complaint alleges that Chair 
Neville violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating by email outside of a properly posted 
meeting on December 8. 
 
Following our review, we find that Chair Neville did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also viewed 
a video recording of the Committee meeting held on December 7.2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice for and held a meeting on 
December 7 during which it discussed, among other matters, an upcoming Special Town 
 
1 All dates refer to 2021, except where indicated. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on December 7 is available at 
https://boxborough.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=713f573f-d64f-4e18-af2f-355f1194c12c 

===PAGE 2===
  2 
 
Meeting and how to handle town departments’ unanticipated expenses.  Chair Neville reported 
that Interim Town Administrator Carter Terenzini3 had expressed to her a preference that 
departments spend down their expense lines, and that expense lines be backfilled at Special Town 
Meeting if needed.  Chair Neville reported that she preferred for departments with unanticipated 
expenses to request a reserve fund transfer, and that Special Town Meeting could then backfill the 
Reserve Fund, rather than requiring Special Town Meeting to backfill individual expense lines.  The 
Committee then discussed that the practice of using Reserve Fund Transfers for unanticipated 
expenses is clearer and provides for better tracking of expenditures, because each Reserve Fund 
Transfer is documented.  The Committee specifically discussed the issue of spending down expense 
lines versus the use of a Reserve Fund Transfer for the purchase of a police cruiser.  Although the 
Committee did not take a vote, it reached consensus that there was a preference for using Reserve 
Fund Transfers rather than backfilling individual expense lines at Special Town Meeting.   
 
At the conclusion of the discussion, Chair Neville stated that she would follow up with Police 
Chief Warren Ryder and suggest he submit a request for a Reserve Fund Transfer for the cruiser, and 
that she would advise Mr. Terenzini of the discussion and decision.  Chair Neville stated that she 
wanted to be clear on what had been agreed so that she could communicate the decision accurately, 
and she requested that the staff member who was taking notes for the meeting minutes send her the 
notes on this discussion; the staff person read aloud from his notes.  
 
The following day, on December 8, Chair Neville sent an email to Mr. Terenzini and 
copied all Committee members.  The email stated, in its entirety,  
 
Good Morning Carter, 
 
The FinCom discussed last night, at length, the idea of spending down expense 
budgets and back-filling the individual line items at Town Meeting versus having 
the department heads come for a [Reserve Fund Transfer] for unanticipated or 
emergency expenses and then back filling the reserve fund at Town Meeting. We 
all agreed we would like to continue our current practice of using RFTs for 
funding those unanticipated or emergency items. It will be much easier to back fill 
just the Reserve Fund at Town Meeting than individual expense lines. We keep a 
really detailed list with back up for the Reserve Fund and will be happy to request 
the back fill of the Reserve Fund, it has been an extraordinary year. 
 
This is what Gary captured in his notes, and will eventually be part of our 
minutes: 
Police car transmission and recommending a RFT rather than spend down the 
budget. The FinCom recommended using RFT and not spending down the 
expense line. Second or third week in February. 
 
So, please have [Police Chief Warren Ryder] submit an RFT along with others if 
the[y] have something that qualifies for an RFT. 
 
Thanks, 
 
3 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
  3 
 
Becky 
 
There is no allegation that any Committee member replied to Chair Neville’s email to the 
Interim Town Administrator. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that Chair Neville sent a “deliberative email” to a quorum of the 
Committee, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We disagree.  Chair Neville’s email merely 
memorialized the discussions that had occurred during an open meeting the previous day, serving 
an administrative purpose similar to circulating draft minutes.  We have stated on numerous 
occasions that communications which merely memorialize the discussions that occurred during a 
posted meeting do not constitute improper deliberation.  See OML 2021-82 (Acton Board of 
Selectmen Chair’s weekly email summaries to all boards and committees which simply 
memorialized the discussions that occurred during the prior Board of Selectmen meeting did not 
constitute deliberation outside of a posted meeting); see also OML 2020-48 (chair’s distribution 
of a draft zoning decision that conveyed opinions and concerns that had been expressed by board 
members during an open meeting did not constitute deliberation); OML 2019-78 (the distribution 
of minutes ahead of a public meeting is permissible as long as the minutes simply memorialize 
the deliberation that took place at a preceding meeting); OML 2013-127 (same).4  In fact, we 
note that Chair Neville took great care to convey in her email precisely what had been discussed 
during the Committee’s December 7 meeting, and that her email tracks nearly verbatim the 
Committee’s discussion during its meeting. 
 
Therefore, we find that Chair Neville’s December 8 email did not constitute deliberation 
outside of a properly posted meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
  
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
  4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Committee Chair Becky Neville did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Ballard (by email: ) 
Becky Neville, Chair, Boxborough Finance Committee (by email: 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
