===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 10,2019 
OML 2019 - 68
John J. Coughlin, Esq.
Bogle, DeAscentis & Coughlin, P.C.
57 North Main Street 
Fall River, MA 02720-2129
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Coughlin:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 29, 2018, alleging that 
the Fall River Redevelopment Authority Preliminary Screening Committee (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on September 28, 2018, and the Committee responded by letter dated October 17, 
2018. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Committee failed to respond to his request 
to review minutes within 10 calendar days, as required by the Open Meeting Law. Mr. Higgins’s 
request was made to the City Clerk as the Records Access Officer and claimed to be both an 
Open Meeting Law and Public Records Law request.
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response and the 
request for further review.
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[mjinutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days 
from the date a request is received to provide a response. If minutes do not yet exist at the time 
of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days 
with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form. 
The Public Records Law, on the other hand, allows 10 business days for responding to requests 
for records.
The Open Meeting Law imposes obligations on public bodies; town clerks are not subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). Therefore, a 
request for minutes that is directed to a public body will fall within the Open Meeting Law. A
o
1

===PAGE 2===
request for minutes that is directed to a Clerk as Public Records Access Officer will likely fall 
under the Public Records Law. See OML 2018-32.
Here, the request stated that it was a request under both the Public Records Law and the 
Open Meeting Law. However, because the request for minutes was sent to the City Clerk 
without any request that it be forwarded to the Committee, and the City Clerk is not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.1
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Fall River Redevelopment Authority Preliminary Screening Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
1 The Division of Open Government has jurisdiction to review complaints brought under the Open Meeting Law; the 
Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office reviews requests made under the Public 
Records Law. Although we find that the Clerk did not have an obligation to respond to the request for meeting 
minutes under the Open Meeting Law, we note that the Clerk, as Records Access Officer, has separate obligations 
under the Public Records Law.
2
