===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
December 28, 2015 
OML 2015-197 
Ruth Weil, Esq. 
Barnstable Town Attorney 
367 Main Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601-3907 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Weil: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on October 30,1 alleging that the 
Barnstable Town Council Roads Subcommittee (the Subcommittee) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Subcommittee on or about September 21, and you responded, on behalf of the Subcommittee, 
to the complaint by letter dated October 23.2 In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that a topic 
on the notice for the Subcommittee's September 21 meeting lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint alleges that the Subcommittee's use of an acronym in its meeting notice 
rendered it insufficiently specific. The topic at issue read, "Discussion regarding TRRP 
Policy." Public bodies should avoid the use of acronyms that are not widely understood by 
the public in meeting notices. See OML 2015-154; OML 2014-100.3 Here, we find that the 
acronym, "TRRP," which stands for "Temporary Repair to Private Roads Policy," is not 
widely understood by members of the public who are unfamiliar with the Subcommittee's 
work. Accordingly, the use of this abbreviation on this meeting notice violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We note that the administrator who is delegated the task of drafting the 
Subcommittee's notices promptly apologized to the complainant after this complaint was 
filed. Furthermore, the Subcommittee pledged to comply with this requirement going 
forward. Accordingly, we order no further relief. Where, as occurred here, a public body 
acknowledges a violation in response to a complaint filed with that body, we strongly 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015, 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
encourage complainants to reconsider whether further review by this office remains 
necessary. 
The complaint also alleges that the agenda heading "Other Business" in the same 
meeting notice was insufficient. As the Subcommittee pointed out in its response, we 
addressed this same issue in a decision resolving a complaint filed by Mr. Beaty against 
another public body, OML 2015-127. In that decision, we found that the use of a heading 
such as "Other Business" under which more specific descriptions were listed did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. See id. Similarly, here, because the Subcommittee listed more 
specific topics below the general heading, "Other Business," we find that this group of topics 
is sufficiently detailed, in compliance with the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Barnstable Town Council Roads Subcommittee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 