===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 15, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 160 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Chair April Iannacone 
Town of Shirley 
Board of Assessors 
7 Keady Way 
Shirley, MA 01464 
 
assessors@shirley-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Iannacone: 
 
This office received three complaints from Doug Bassett, the first on July 21, 2025 and 
the other two on September 8, 2025,
1 alleging that the Shirley Board of Assessors, the Shirley 
Town Assessor, and the Shirley Town Clerk violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.
2   The first complaint was filed with the Board on June 23 and you responded on the 
Board’s behalf on July 2.  The other two complaints were filed with the Town Assessor and the 
Town Clerk on June 20.  Principal Assessor Jennifer Wilson and Town Clerk William Oelfke 
responded on July 7 and July 2, respectively.  The complainant alleges that the Board failed to 
produce minutes in response to a request for same, and that it deliberated outside a public 
meeting.  In the complaints that he filed with the Town Assessor and Town Clerk, Mr. Bassett 
repeats the allegation of deliberations outside a meeting and also makes additional allegations 
regarding improper property classification and demands for inspection.   
 
 
 
1 On September 8, Mr. Bassett sent an email to our office “to provide supplemental information regarding my 
pending OML complaint against the Shirley Board of Assessors and to request consolidation with two additional 
OML complaints I am filing against related municipal officials.”  We now understand that by his email of 
September 8, Mr. Bassett was requesting review of the two complaints filed with municipal officials .  However, the 
request did not include copies of the complaints filed with the officials.  Although the Open Meeting Law does not 
require specific language when requesting review, the Law does require that when requesting review, “the 
complainant shall include a copy of the original complaint along with any other materials the complainant believes 
are relevant.”    
2 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2025 unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  We decline to review the complaints filed with the Town Clerk and Principal 
Assessor.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the 
responses thereto, and the requests for further review and consolidation.  We also communicated 
with Mr. Bassett via email. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not
  violate the Open Meeting Law regarding its response to the 
complainant’s request for meeting minutes. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minute
s of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The minutes of an 
open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, must be made available upon 
request by any person within 10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  If minutes do not yet exist at the 
time of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 days with 
an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form.  See 
OML 2025-148; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173.3 
 
On June 2, the complainant sent an email to Principal Assessor Jennifer Wilson, 
requesting “immediate production of all Board meeting minutes, site visit documentation, and 
correspondence for #138 Ayer Rd., as was done for #33.”  His request cited both the Public 
Records Law, G.L. c. 66, §10, and the Open Meeting Law.  On June 3, Clerk William Oelfke 
responded to the request in his capacity as the public records officer of the Town of Shirley, 
stating that “there are no such records on file in this office to provide to you since the Board of 
Assessors did not meet on the topic. . . .”   
 
Assuming, arguendo, that the June 2 email constituted a request for minutes under the 
Open Meeting Law,
4 the response complied with the Law.  The response was sent within 10 
days, explaining that the requested records did not exist because the Board did not discuss in a 
meeting the topic that is referenced in the complainant’s request, 138 Ayer Road.  The 
complainant may (and does) believe that the Board should have met to discuss 138 Ayer Road.
5 
But the Board cannot create minutes of a meeting that never happened.  We find, therefore, that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in response to the complainant’s request for 
minutes.  To the extent that the complainant alleges that the Board failed to produce site visit 
documentation and correspondence, that allegation falls outside the Open Meeting Law and we 
decline to review it.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (requiring only the production of minutes).  See 
also OML 2020-20; 2019-125.  
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
4 Minutes may be requested under the Open Meeting Law or under the Public Records Law.  A request made under 
the Open Meeting Law should be directed to the public body; a request made under the Public Records Law should 
be made to the public records officer.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  A request for minutes that is directed to a clerk 
or other employee as records access officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law.  See OML 2025-148; 
OML 2020-20; OML 2019-68.  
5 Indeed, he suspects that the Board discussed 138 Ayer Road outside of a meeting, a suspicion that forms the basis 
of his other allegation against the Board. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The Board did not deliberate outside a posted meeting. 
 
In all three complaints before us, the complainant alleges that the Board communicated 
about 138 Ayer Road outside of a meeting.  In addition to the June 3 email sent by Clerk Oelfke, 
a letter signed by the Board also was sent to the complainant in response to his June 2 email.  In 
its letter, dated June 10 and signed by all three members, the Board stated that “[a]ll 
documentation requested has been provided by the Principal Assessor with regards to the 
properties that you are comparing your property to.”  The Board further “assure[d]” the 
complainant that it had not “discussed [his] property at any point outside of any posted meeting.”   
 
Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s accou
 nt of the facts. 
See OML 2025-15; 2023-121; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Bd. of Worcester, 
389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of 
the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”)  
Furthermore, we have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture 
regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to 
support a complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., OML 2025-15; OML 2023-242; OML 2012-59.  
The complainant does not support his allegation with anything other than his impression that “the 
Board’s shifting standards and refusal to answer direct questions strongly suggest that my June 2 
letter was reviewed and discussed by a quorum of the Board outside a posted public meeting.”  A 
suggestion of deliberation outside a meeting, without factual support, does not establish a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not deliberate outside 
a meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
6 
 
III. We decl ine to review complaints filed with the Town Assessor and Town Clerk. 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body mem
bers.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML Declination 12-18-15 (Lawrence City Clerk); 
OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries); OML Declination 5-
16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk).  Both Principal Assessor Wilson and Clerk Oelfke are municipal 
employees, not members of the Board.  Therefore, we decline to review the complaints filed with 
them. 
 
Addit
ionally, the complaints filed with the principal assessor and with the town clerk 
were not timely filed with our office.  The Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “[t]he 
Attorney General shall decline to investigate complaints filed with the Attorney General more 
than 90 days after the alleged violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, or if the alleged 
violation of M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25, could not reasonably have been known at the time 
it occurred, then within 90 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.”  940 
CMR 29.05(7).  The complaints filed with our office on September 8 allege that the municipal 
employees violated the Open Meeting Law on May 20, May 22 and June 3.  More than 90 days 
 
6 To the extent that the complainant alleges violations of civil rights, due process or engaged in tortious interference, 
we decline to review those allegations.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law. All of these allegations fall outside the Open Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 4===
passed between the dates of violation and the date of filing the complaints with our office. They
were therefore untimely filed.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board of with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Matt Jou
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Jennifer Wilson, Principal Assessor (via email: jenn.wilson@shirley-ma.gov)
Bill Oelfke, Town Clerk (via email: clerk@shirley-ma.gov)
Doug Bassett (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4