===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 19, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 86 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Thomas Matuszko 
Executive Director, Berkshire Regional Planning Commission and  
Staff to the Housatonic Rest of River Municipal Committee 
tmatuszko@berkshireplanning.org 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Matuszko: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joshua Bloom on May 10, 2023, alleging that the 
Housatonic Rest of River Municipal Committee (the “Committee”)
1 violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 31, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 13.
2  In his complaint, Mr. 
Bloom alleges that the notice for the Committee’s March 27 meeting included a topic which was 
not sufficiently detailed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee viola
 ted the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed 
the notice for and minutes of the Committee’s March 27 meeting as well as the court docket for 
the matter Housatonic River Initiative, et al v. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Docket 
No. 22-1398, filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.   
 
FACTS 
 
 We provide the following background information as context for the actions that are the 
subject of the present Open Meeting Law complaint.  The Housatonic Rest of River Municipal 
Committee was created in 2013 via an Intergovernmental Agreement between the municipalities 
of Great Barrington, Lee, Lenox, Pittsfield, Sheffield and Stockbridge to advocate common 
 
1 The complaint names the Berkshire Regional Planning Commission as the public body alleged to have violated the 
Law; however, both the Committee and our office clearly understood the complainant as regarding the actions of the 
Committee. 
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Housatonic River cleanup goals stemming from the General Electric Company’s (“GE”) 
contamination of a portion of the Housatonic River with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), 
following decades of discharges from GE’s manufacturing facility in Pittsfield.  In 2016, the 
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued a Rest of River clean-up plan requiring GE to 
ship all PCB waste removed from the river out of state; the Committee supported the plan.  GE 
appealed this plan, and the EPA’s Environmental Appeals Board vacated and remanded that 
decision. The EPA then initiated mediated negotiations between GE, the Committee and several 
other interested parties. In January 2020, after years of litigation and a year of mediation, the 
Committee approved a settlement agreement with GE.  The settlement agreement required GE to 
begin cleanup immediately and to ship the most highly contaminated waste material out of state, 
while allowing other waste with lower average concentrations of PCBs to be disposed of at a 
new waste facility in Berkshire County.  The EPA ultimately issued an order essentially tracking 
the terms of the settlement agreement. 
 
 Two environmental advocacy groups—the Housatonic River Initiative and the 
Housatonic Environmental Action Team—sought judicial review of the EPA’s disposal order in 
the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.  In June 2022, the Committee, through 
legal counsel, moved to intervene in the case, referred to herein as the Rest of River Cleanup 
Litigation.  In January 2023, the Committee, through legal counsel, filed a 50-page legal brief 
arguing in support of the EPA’s order. 
  
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 27 at 11:30 a.m.  The 
notice included nine topics, one of which was “6. Approval of Expenditure of Funds.”  The 
meeting was held as scheduled.  The minutes summarize the Committee’s discussion of the 
“Approval of Expenditure of Funds” topic as follows:  
 
6. Approval of Expenditure of Funds. Leg
 al counsel Seeger & Weiss need to 
file paperwork tomorrow to be able to provide oral arguments before the District 
Court of Appeals; legal counsel has estimated that it will cost up to $15,000 to 
prep and present oral arguments. A motion made by R. Wood, seconded by S. 
Shatz, to approve up to $15,000 for our legal firm to prepare and make legal 
arguments before the First Circuit Court; motion passed on a 4-1 roll call 
vote, with B. Jones voting no. Mr. Jones does not see why the Committee needs 
to weigh in on the appeal in federal court; all parties have their case and he 
doesn’t see why the Committee has try to put its thumb on the scale in court. 
 
 Late
r that same day, legal counsel for the Committee filed a Designation of Attorney 
Presenting Oral Argument, indicating an intention to appear at and participate in oral argument 
before the Court.  Oral argument is presently scheduled to take place on June 6. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time, and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-
35.3  See OML 2019-134. 
 
Though the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list each and every 
deta
il about a topic in order to comply with the law’s specificity requirement, it requires public 
bodies to identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); 
OML 2020-156; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  We have 
previously stated that the Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice list topics with 
sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the 
meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest. See OML 2019-95; OML 
2018-22; OML 2015-74.4 
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice topic “ Approval of Expenditure of Funds” was 
insufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the topic to be discussed at the meeting.  
The Committee acknowledges, and we find, that the topic was insufficiently specific.  The topic 
that was anticipated for discussion, more specifically, was approval of the expenditure of funds 
for legal counsel to prepare for and participate in oral argument in support of the EPA’s order, 
and thus effectively constituted approval for legal counsel to continue to advocate a particular 
position in the Rest of River Cleanup Litigation.   
 
On numerous occasions we have explained and
  illustrated that a notice topic must include 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed.  See, e.g., 
OML 2023-24 (notice topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance 
Revisions” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that the public body would discuss 
salary increases for city councilors and other city officials); OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022-
2023 School Year Calendar” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that school 
committee would discuss changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school 
calendar); OML 2019-89 (notice topics “Host Agreement,” “Land Development,” and “Non-
Opposition letter” “did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the board would be 
discussing a marijuana establishment - a topic that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public 
interest”); OML 2019-117 (notice topics “Discussion of the AIDS Support Group’s plans in 
Falmouth” and “Seeing [sic] formal letter of support from the Board of Health” did not 
sufficiently alert members of the public that the board would discuss and approve a syringe 
access program). 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
4 The complaint alleges that the Committee allowed public comment at the beginning of the meeting only, and due 
to the lack of specificity on the meeting notice regarding the nature of the expenditure of funds  to be approved, 
members of the public were deprived of the opportunity to meaningfully speak in opposition to the expenditure of 
additional legal funds in support of the EPA’s order.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies 
allow an opportunity for public comment during meetings in the first place , and therefore we do not separately 
review whether the insufficient meeting notice deprived the complainant and others of the opportunity to speak in 
opposition to the approval of expenditure of funds.  See OML 2022-77; OML 2017-189. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
For these reasons, we find that the topic “Approval of Expenditure of Funds” on the 
notice for the Committee’s March 27 meeting was insufficiently specific, and the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee  violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing and taking action on a topic that was not included with sufficient specificity on the 
notice for the Committee’s March 27 meeting.  
 
 To remedy the lack of notice to the public, we order the Committee , with
 in 14 days of 
issuance of this determination, to post adequate notice and again discuss and vote on the 
approval of expenditure of funds to enable legal counsel to prepare for and participate in oral 
argument in support of the EPA’s order in the Rest of River Cleanup Litigation.  If the 
Committee fails to vote to approve the expenditure at a properly noticed meeting within 14 days, 
the approval that was voted at its March 27 meeting shall be nullified, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(c)(3). 
 
We also o
rder the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the 
future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joshua Bloom (via e- mail: ) 
 Brian R. Falk, Esq., Special Counsel (via e- mail: bfalk@mirickoconnell.com) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.
 
