===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 98 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq. 
Everett City Solicitor  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on February 1, 2021, alleging 
that the Everett City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about November 12, 2020, and 
you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated February 3, 2021.2 We understand the 
complaint to allege that 1) the Council posted two, conflicting, notices for its November 9, 2020, 
meeting; and 2) the Council did not allow for public participation during the public hearings that 
were part of the November 9 meeting.3,4      
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s 
response, the request for further review, and the notices for the Council’s November 9 meeting.  
 
 
1 The complaint also alleges that the Everett City Clerk violated the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law 
applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, 
we decline to review any allegation that the City Clerk violated the Open Meeting Law. 
2 We note that the Council responded to the complaint well outside of the 14 business days allowed under the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind the Council of its obligation to comply with all 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the obligation to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints.    
3 The complaint raises additional allegations and presents additional information that either do not allege violations 
of the Open Meeting Law, or appear to be included as background information and not as additional allegations. We 
do not address those matters in this determination.  
4 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise stated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
On November 5, at 3:03 p.m., the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
November 9 at 7:00 p.m. The notice included, in part, the following information: 
 
REMOTE MEETING OF THE CITY COUNCIL, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 
2020 7:00 PM,COUNCIL CHAMBERS CITY HALL, 484 BROADWAY, 3RD 
FLOOR, EVERETT, MA 02149MEETING CAN BE VIEWED LIVE ON ECTV  
[Everett Community Television]  
Join Zoom Meeting 
 
https://ci-everett-ma.zoom.us/j/99697050995 
 
Meeting ID: 996 9705 0995 
 
One tap mobile  
 
+16465588656,,99697050995# 
 
Dial in          
 
+1 646 558 8656 
 
Meeting ID: 996 9705 0995 
 
 On November 5, at 4:16 p.m., the Council posted an additional notice for the meeting to 
be held on November 9 at 7:00 p.m. This additional notice included the same information with 
respect to the date and time of the meeting, that the meeting was remote, the physical address of 
Council Chambers, and that the meeting could be viewed live on Everett Community Television 
(“ECTV”). The additional notice differed from the original notice in that it did not include a link 
to the Zoom meeting, included a different meeting ID number, different information for the one 
tap mobile option, and included a passcode. This notice also differed with respect to the order 
and subject matter of some discussion topics.  
 
On November 9, the Council convened its meeting as scheduled. The Complainant and 
Council provide different explanations for why there was no public participation during the 
public hearings that were a part of the November 9 meeting, but they agree that there was no 
public participation.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.5 However, on March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive 
order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the 
provision that meetings be physically accessible to members of the public, provided that the 
public body instead provide adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings 
remotely. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 
(Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, a public body must post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding weekends and 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a list 
of the topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation during its meetings, 
but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission 
of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). 
 
 The complaint alleges that the notices posted for the November 9 meeting “had 2 
distinctly different meeting ID numbers to participate in the meeting for public participation. . . . 
A reasonable person could conclude that the posting of 2 separate [notices] for the sam[e] 
meeting was done to confuse the public who wanted to participate in public participation.” The 
Open Meeting Law requires that all members of the public have access to witness the open 
session deliberations of a public body, but the Law does not give the public the right to 
participate in a public body’s meeting. See OML 2013-40. Therefore, to the extent the complaint 
alleges that the Complainant or any other individual was not allowed to participate in the 
November 9 meeting, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.6 
 
Likewise, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law where its 
November 9 meeting was accessible to the public. Although the Complainant asserts that posting 
two notices with different login information for the November 9 meeting was done for the 
purpose of confusing the public, the Complainant does not allege that he or any other individual 
was unable to access the November 9 meeting through any of the means of access provided for 
in the meeting notice, including via livestream on ECTV. In fact, the complaint suggests that the 
Complainant was able to successfully access the meeting, even if he was not provided an 
opportunity to speak during the meeting. Therefore, we find that the Council’s November 9 
meeting was accessible to the public.     
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 The Division of Open Government is charged with enforcing and interpreting the Open Meeting Law only. The 
Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting a public hearing nor does it guarantee a right to 
participate in a public hearing, and we therefore decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions 
taken by the Council could be a violation of any separate law or regulation governing public hearings. See OML 
2021-32; OML 2018-140. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 Although we do not find a violation in this instance, we note that if it was the Council’s 
intention that the public view the meeting live on ECTV, and that the Zoom information be used 
only by members of the public who wished to actively participate during the meeting, this was 
not made clear on either notice for the November 9 meeting. We additionally note that this is at 
least the second complaint our office has reviewed related to the confusing manner in which the 
Council has posted notice for its meetings. See OML 2021-17. We remind the Council that the 
purpose of a meeting notice is to clearly inform the public of the date, time, and location of the 
meeting, as well as the topics anticipated for discussion. Posting multiple meeting notices for the 
same meeting, especially where the notices contain different information, may well confuse the 
public. Notices should be easy to find and easy to understand. We strongly encourage the 
Council and its staff to review its notice posting practices to ensure that it provides the public 
with the necessary information in a clear and straightforward manner.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office 
or the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rosa DiFlorio, Everett City Council President (via e-mail:   
Everett City Council (via e-mail:   
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
