===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 18, 2017 
OML 2017-164 
Paul Hodnett, Esq. 
Rubin & Rudman LLP 
53 State Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Hodnett: 
This office received a complaint from Cynthia Gardner on July 12, alleging that the 
Cotuit Fire District Union Negotiating Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about May 23, and Attorney Marielise Kelly responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated June 6. In her complaint, Ms. Gardner alleges that the Committee's May 22 executive 
session was improper and that the Committee failed to comply with the procedural requirements 
for convening in executive session.2 Additionally, Ms. Gardner alleges that the Committee 
improperly allowed an individual to participate remotely during the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with two of the procedural requirements for convening an executive session. 
We find no violation with respect to the other allegations. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice, open and executive 
session minutes from the Committee's May 22 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is responsible for negotiating collective 
bargaining agreements on behalf of the Cotuit Fire District. On May 22, the Committee 
convened in executive session to discuss concerns raised by the Inspector General's Office 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 Ms. Gardner also alleges that the Committee was not the proper body to negotiate a contract on behalf of the Fire 
District. Further, her complaint requests that the Committee disclose when it decided to hire its legal counsel. Both 
issues are outside of the Open Meeting Law and we thus decline to review them. See OML 2017-132. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
regarding certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreement with a fire fighters' union. 
The Committee posted notice of this meeting on May 18 and listed the heading, "Executive 
Session-Union Negotiations," below which the Committee described the topic as follows: 
The Committee will convene in open session and immediately convene into Executive 
Session for a discussion about concerns raised by the Inspector General's Office 
referencing Cotuit Fire Fighters Local 3642 contract. The Committee will not return to 
open session. 
During the meeting, the Committee voted by roll call to convene in executive session for 
the purpose as stated in the notice and advised the public that it would not return to open session 
following the executive session. All three Committee members were present, along with 
Attorney Edward Gargiulo, who represents the Cotuit Fire District. Attorney Paul Hodnett, who 
also represents the District, participated by telephone during the meeting. During the executive 
session, the Committee discussed the Inspector General's concerns. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair states 
the purpose for the executive session and announces whether the open session will reconvene at 
the conclusion of the executive session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go 
into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). Public bodies should state, both in their notice and in 
the open session announcement, the name of the union, unless disclosure would compromise the 
Board's negotiating position. See OML 2016-70; OML 2015-193.3 One executive session 
purpose allows a public body to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental 
health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
of individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). Another executive session purpose allows 
a public body to enter executive session to "discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
I. The Committee's May 22 Executive Session Discussion was Properly Held. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's discussion should have been held in open 
session as it appeared to concern the current firefighter union's contract. The discussion did 
involve the Inspector General's concerns regarding the current firefighters' union's contract, 
which the Committee was renegotiating at the time. The Committee contends that having this 
discussion in open session would have been detrimental to its ongoing negotiations with the 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
firefighters' union. Furthermore, the Committee contends that the discussion was prompted by a 
complaint filed with the Inspector General's Office against the Fire District. We therefore agree 
with the Committee that this discussion fell within the parameters of both Purposes 1 and 3 as a 
complaint against the Fire District which could have impacted the Committee's ongoing 
negotiations with the fire fighter's union.4 G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a) (1), (3). Accordingly, the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding this discussion in executive 
session. 
II. The Committee Failed to Comply with Two of the Procedural Requirements for 
Convening an Executive Session, Including a Failure to Provide a Sufficiently 
Detailed Purpose. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to identify the executive session purpose 
it relied on during the meeting. We commend the Committee for providing the public with a 
specific description about the anticipated discussion, including identifying the specific union. 
However, as stated, the notice topic was unclear as to which executive session purpose or 
purposes the Committee relied upon. "Union Negotiations" could have meant that the 
Committee was conducting the negotiation under Purpose 2 or discussing negotiation strategy 
under Purpose 3. Additionally, the topic's reference to the Inspector General's concerns did not 
make clear whether the Committee had also relied on Purpose 1. Our office has concluded that 
an executive session purpose need not include the specific statutory citation if the description is 
sufficiently clear on which purpose the public body has relied. See OML 2016-64. In this 
instance, however, we find that the stated purpose was ambiguous. Accordingly, the Committee 
should have indicated the specific purpose(s), either identifying it by the statutory language, 
citation and/or the purpose(s) (ie., "Purposes 1 and 3"). See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification 
given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"); G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
20(b), 21(b)(3). Furthermore, because the Committee relied, in part, on Purpose 3 for the 
executive session, the chair should have declared that having the discussion in open session 
would have been detrimental to the Committee's negotiating position. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3); OML 2016-147. Though slight missteps in an otherwise well-prepared meeting, 
failure to comply with these requirements violate the Open Meeting Law. We acknowledge the 
Committee's efforts to comply with the law's requirements and therefore order no remedial 
action. 
III. The Committee Did Not Use Remote Participation During the Meeting in 
Question. 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee failed to comply with the procedural 
4 We disagree with the Committee's reliance on Purpose 2, as it was not engaged in negotiations during the meeting. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (a public body may convene in executive session "to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions"). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
requirements for remote participation during the meeting. The Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law regulations provide that public body members can participate remotely during 
meetings if the practice has been properly adopted. See 940 CR 29.10, et seq.5 For local public 
bodies, the chief executive officer of the municipality must adopt the practice, which would then 
apply to all public bodies within the municipality. 940 CR 29.10(2). Although the practice of 
remote participation had already been adopted for Cotuit, during its May 22 meeting, all of the 
Committee members were physically present. The Committee's counsel, who is not a member 
of the Committee, participated by telephone. Because remote participation only applies to public 
body members, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to comply with two of the procedural requirements for convening an executive session, 
including failing to identify a sufficiently specific purpose for the executive session and failing to 
state that an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the Committee's negotiating 
position. We acknowledge the Committee's efforts to comply with the law's requirements and 
therefore order no remedial action. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Cynthia Gardner 
Cotuit Fire District Union Negotiating Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 We note that, effective October 6, the regulations have been revised. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 