===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 186 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Patti Kerrigan 
Chair, Clinton Parks and Recreation Commission 
 
parksreccommission@clintonma.gov 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Kerrigan:
1 
 
On July 23, 2025, this office received a complaint from Joseph A. Notaro, alleging that 
the Clinton Parks and Recreation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on June 
16.2  To date, the Commission has not responded to the complaint, despite multiple inquiries 
from our office.  The complainant, who is a member of the Commission, alleges that on June 11, 
after adjournment of a posted meeting, the Commission discussed alleged complaints about him 
from members of the community, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed Commissioner Notaro’s complaint, 
and his request for further review.  We also viewed a recording of the June 11 meeting.3 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On June  9, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to 
be held on June 11.  The meeting took place as scheduled and lasted approximately nine minutes.  
After discussing the topics listed on the meeting notice, the Commission voted to adjourn the 
meeting.  Upon adjournment, Clinton Community TV stopped recording the meeting.  The 
Commission Chair, Patti Kerrigan, then asked that members remain seated.  She reported that a 
local business contacted the Clinton Parks and Recreation Department to complain about 
Commissioner Notaro.  Chair Kerrigan also spoke about a traffic incident involving 
 
1 Hereinafter, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
3 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tbbeRN5JfCU. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Commissioner Notaro.  The complainant asked that the discussion be had in private but Chair 
Kerrigan denied the request, stating that it was a “commission matter” and that Commissioner 
Notaro was “a disgrace to the commission,” according to the complaint.  Commissioner Notaro 
alleges that as Chair Kerrigan continued to “assassinat[e] [his] character,” he left the meeting 
space and returned to his car.  During the 20 minutes he sat in his car, he did not see anyone 
leave the building. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  The Open Meeting 
Law defines “meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  “Deliberation” is broadly defined to 
include any communication between or among a quorum regarding business within the public 
body’s jurisdiction, with limited exceptions as described below, even if no opinion is expressed 
and no action is taken.  See OML 2023-224; OML 2020-18; OML 2019-151.4  
 
Explicitly excluded from the definition of “deliberation” are the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information, or reports or documents to be discussed at a meeting, provided 
no opinion of a member is expressed.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  See also OML 2023-139; OML 2021-
112.  These exceptions are construed narrowly.  See OML 2023-139; OML 2016-172; OML 
2014-51.  Discussions about the organization and leadership of a public body or committee 
assignments relate to public business within a body’s jurisdiction and must be discussed during a 
meeting.  See OML 2014-108; OML 2013-69.  Similarly, discussions of staff morale, employee 
workload, and reporting structure, which relate to the daily operation of a public body, constitute 
business within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2023-97.  We also have found a public 
body’s conduct, including “minutes issues, poor decorum in the meetings and all the bad press,” 
to fall within its jurisdiction such that it should have been discussed in a posted meeting.  See 
OML 2013-27. 
 
While Commissioner Notaro does not fully detail the nature of his conflict with the local 
business, a topic the Commission discussed after it adjourned its June 11 meeting, that conflict 
should have been discussed in a posted meeting.  Whether or not the conflict originated in the 
context of Commission business, Chair Kerrigan raised the topic due to its impact on the 
Commission, explicitly saying that it was a Commission matter and calling the complainant a 
disgrace to the Commission.  When the Commission held a discussion outside a meeting about 
complaints against one of its members and the impact of those complaints on the Commission 
itself, it violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Commissioner Notaro further alleges that the Commission continued to discuss him after 
he left the meeting.  Given that the Commission was discussing him at the time he left the 
meeting, it is possible that the discussion continued after he left.  However, given that we have 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
found a violation as to the discussion that started while he was in the meeting space, we need not 
determine whether the discussion continued after he left.   
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Chair’s action on June 11 is “not new.”  
Commissioner Notaro alleges that at the conclusion of every meeting “everyone else stays 
behind and discusses Parks and Recreation matters in secret, without me.”  Our office will not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2024-2; OML 
2021-133; OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors).  Additionally, 
complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could not 
reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 
days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  When an 
alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at 
the time it occurs.  See OML 2024-2; OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.  As the allegation of 
deliberation after meetings other than the June 11 meeting does not provide sufficient detail and 
is likely untimely, we decline to review it. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by del
iberating outside of a posted meeting.  We order the Commission to revise the 
minutes of the meeting held on June 11 within 30 days of this letter to include a sufficiently 
detailed summary of any discussion that occurred while a quorum was present in the meeting 
space after the meeting was adjourned, regardless of whether Commissioner Notaro remained in 
the meeting space.  We also order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law’s requirements and caution that future similar violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now c
onsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Joseph A. Notaro (via email: ) 
 Holly Sargent, Clinton Town Clerk (via email: hsargent@clintonma.gov 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 