===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 28, 2017 
OML 2017-132 
Marielise Kelly, Esq. 
Gargiulo/Rudnick, LLP 
766 Falmouth Road, Unit A-6 
Mashpee, MA 02649 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Kelly: 
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates, dated March 6, alleging that the Cotuit 
Board of Fire Commissioners Union Negotiating Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on January 25 and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated July 
24.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee "must have met, corresponded, or 
spoke" outside of a properly posted meeting in order to respond to a January 8 Open Meeting 
Law complaint.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting.3 In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on March 21, 2017 
and April 19, 2017, and followed up with you via email on June 9, June 23, and July 12. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee held a meeting on December 20, 2016. A 
few minutes before the meeting began, the complainant arrived at the meeting location but could 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complaint also includes various questions to the Committee regarding the hiring of the law office of 
Gargiulo/Rudnick and requests that the Committee schedule a meeting to discuss the complainant's concerns. 
Because this portion of the complaint does not specifically allege any violation of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to address the questions raised. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
3 We note that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must 
review the complaint's allegations. While the public body may delegate responsibility for responding to the 
complaint to legal counsel, it must first meet to do so. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
s 
not enter the building as the door was locked. After knocking on a window, someone inside the 
building let her into the meeting, which had not yet begun. The Committee convened in open 
session and then immediately moved to enter into executive session for the purpose of collective 
bargaining. The Committee did not allow the public an opportunity to address the Committee. 
On January 8, the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the 
Committee's failure to make the December 20, 2016 meeting accessible to the public and failure 
to allow public participation at that meeting. Attorney Kelly responded, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letters dated January 18 and February 8.4 
On June 30, the Committee posted notice with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held 
on July 6.5 The notice stated that the Committee will convene in open session and go 
immediately into Executive Session to "deliberate on Open Meeting Law Complaint by Amy 
Kates relating to 12/20/2016 meeting of the Union Negotiating Committee;" and to "deliberate 
on Open Meeting Law Complaint by Amy Kates dated 1/25/17 regarding alleged Open Meeting 
Law Violation by the Union Negotiating Committee." 
The July 6 meeting was held as planned and the Committee convened in executive 
session under Purpose 1.6 The Committee discussed the January 8 complaint and took a 
corrective vote to ratify the prior act of referring that complaint to legal counsel. The Committee 
then discussed the instant complaint and referred it also to legal counsel for response. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglionc v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id 
4 The original complaint that was filed with the Committee on January 8 by Ms. Kates was not signed or dated. Ms. 
Kates then filed a second, identical complaint with the Committee around January 24 that was signed and dated. 
The Committee responded to both complaints. 
5 The notice listed the time of the meeting as "1750 hrs (5:00 pm)." We note that these are two different times and 
caution the Committee to review the notice before posting to ensure that the actual time of the meeting is accurately 
reflected on the notice. 
6 A public body may enter into executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, as it 
represents a complaint against the public body members as individual public officials. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a); 
OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Committee "must have met, corresponded, or spoke" about 
an Open Meeting Law complaint outside of a properly posted meeting. We find that the 
Committee did not discuss the complaint outside of a noticed meeting. Rather, upon receipt of 
the complaint, the Committee simply forwarded it to legal counsel. In fact, the Committee 
acknowledges that it failed "to deliberate at a public noticed meeting on your underlying Open 
Meeting Law Complaint about the December 20, 2016 meeting." As the Committee did not 
deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
However, the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and 
send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action 
taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Although the Committee responded to the 
complaint via its attorney within the required time period, it did so without first reviewing the 
allegations during a meeting; instead simply forwarding the complaint to legal counsel for 
response. See 940 CMR 29.05(5). Proper procedure would have been for the Committee to 
review the complaint before authorizing legal counsel to respond on its behalf. See OML 2012-
95; OML 2012-90; OML 2011-6.7 
Furthermore, we note that the Committee did not respond to the instant complaint until 
six months after it was filed, well beyond the 14-day requirement of the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We take this opportunity to remind the Committee that failure to respond 
to an Open Meeting Law complaint is itself a violation of the law. See OML 2014-78; OML 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
2014-15. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Amy McGuire Kates 
Cotuit Board of Fire Commissioners Union Negotiating Committee 
n 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 