===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 201 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Heather C. White, Esq. 
Petrini & Associates, P.C. 
372 Union Avenue 
Framingham, MA  01702 
hwhite@petrinilaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney White: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lee Baumgartner on May 15, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Fairhaven Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 21, and Stasia Powers, 
who was chair of the Board at the time, responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 1. 
We understand the complaint to allege that with respect to an executive session meeting held on 
March 17: 1) the Board posted notice less than 48 hours prior to the meeting without there being 
an emergency, as defined in the Open Meeting Law, justifying the late notice; 2) the open 
session portion of the meeting was inaccessible to the public; 3) the Board discussed topics 
beyond the scope of the executive session purposes included on the notice; and 4) the meeting 
notice did not indicate whether the Board would reconvene in open session.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where it 
posted notice less than 48 hours prior to the March 17 meeting and there was no emergency 
justifying the late notice; the open session portion of the meeting was inaccessible to the public; 
and the Board discussed matters in executive session that were not appropriate for executive 
session. We find that the Board did not violate the Law by failing to indicate on the notice for the 
March 17 meeting whether the Board would reconvene in open session. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
for further review, and a video recording of the opening of the Board’s March 17 meeting.2 We 
also reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the Board’s March 17 executive session. Finally, we 
communicated by email and telephone with the Board’s legal counsel.3 
 
FACTS 
 
Background 
 
The Fairhaven School Committee sought a permit to build a storage shed at the Fairhaven 
High School, and the Building Commissioner granted the permit. The Fairhaven Zoning Board 
of Appeals (the “ZBA”) later rescinded the permit, and the School Committee appealed the 
decision, filing suit in Land Court against the ZBA and abutters.  
 
Relatedly, the ZBA was experiencing some challenges, with one (now former) member 
asserting that the ZBA’s Chair, Patrick Carr, and Vice Chair, Ruy Da Silva, had harassed and 
defamed her. These concerns and allegations were brought to the attention of the Board’s chair, 
who at the time was Stasia Powers. Chair Powers determined that the Board should convene an 
executive session to discuss the complaints and allegations against Mr. Carr and Mr. Da Silva. 
Notice for a February 10 meeting was posted and included, among other topics, the following 
executive session topic: 
 
Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) To discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual; Patrick Carr Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) To discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual; Ruy daSilva.  
 
Notice of the anticipated executive session was served on Mr. Carr and Mr. Da Silva, 
who in response hired legal counsel. Legal counsel for Mr. Carr and Mr. Da Silva wrote to legal 
counsel for the Board, Attorney Heather White, objecting to the executive session and 
threatening legal action against the Town, Chair Powers, and Attorney White if the executive 
session went forward.  
 
The Board convened in executive session on February 10. However, instead of convening 
under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss the complaints brought against Mr. Carr and Mr. Da 
Silva, as originally anticipated, the Board convened under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) to discuss 
potential litigation involving Mr. Carr and Mr. Da Silva.  
 
The March 17 Executive Session  
 
The Town’s official notice posting location is its website, http://www.Fairhaven-
MA.gov. On Saturday, March 15 at 1:32 p.m., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on Monday, March 17 at 6:00 p.m. The notice listed the location of the meeting as Town Hall, 40 
 
2 A recording of the opening of the Board’s March 17 meeting may found at 
https://vimeo.com/showcase/11515032?video=1066974031.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Center Street, Fairhaven and did not include any means of remote access. The notice listed the 
following topics: 
 
A. EXECUTIVE SESSION  
 
G.L. C. 30A, s. 21(a)(3) discuss strategy with respect to litigation (Fairhaven 
School Committee v. Fairhaven Zoning Board of Appeals, Land Court 
25MISC000064) and anticipated litigation (Patrick Carr and Ruy daSilva) 
 
B. ADJOURNMENT 
 
The notice did not indicate that the Board would first convene in open session and the webpage 
where the notice was posted included the following statement:  
 
The Select Board has no Open Session Business and due to staff availability, will 
record the Opening of the meeting and the motion made to enter  into Executive 
Session for broadcast later. 
 
The Select Board will not return to Open Session this evening.  
 
The Board convened as scheduled on March 17. Several members of the Board were 
present in person at Town Hall and a few members, along with Attorney White, attended 
remotely via Zoom. Chair Powers opened the meeting by calling for a motion to enter executive 
session, reading aloud the executive session topic as listed on the notice, and stating that “there 
was a suddenly and generally unexpected occurrence demanding immediate action and 
discussion that an open session would jeopardize the Town’s position in anticipated litigation.” 
Chair Powers then announced that the Board would not reconvene in open session. Thereafter, a 
motion to convene in executive session was made and the Board voted by roll call to enter 
executive session.  
 
Because the minutes of the executive session have not yet been released to the public, we 
do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that the primary discussion in 
executive session did not relate to strategy with respect to a litigation matter in which the Board 
has a litigating position.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law By Posting Notice of Its March 17 
Meeting Less Than 48 Hours Prior to the Meeting Where There Was No Emergency 
Justifying the Late Notice.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
“In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to the 
meeting.” Id. The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body. See 
OML 2020-123.4 Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and 
require an immediate response, that is, action that could not wait for notice of a meeting to be 
posted 48 hours in advance. See OML 2021-119; OML 2017-131; OML 2016-70; OML 2011-
45.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board posted notice for the March 17 meeting less than 48 
hours prior to the meeting without there being an emergency, as that term is defined in the Open 
Meeting Law, to justify the late notice. We agree. After review of the materials before us and 
discussion with counsel for the Board, we find that the Board has not met its burden to show that 
there existed an emergency such that the Board was relieved of the requirement to post notice 48 
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, prior to the March 17 meeting. Although we credit the 
Board’s representation that the circumstances leading to the March 17 meeting were unexpected 
and felt urgent, we do not find that they demanded immediate action that could not wait for 48 
hours’ notice of the meeting.  
 
The complaint also asserts that the Board should have indicated on the notice that the 
meeting was an emergency meeting and asserts that this is something the Commonwealth 
recommends as a best practice. To the extent this was intended as an additional allegation, we 
find no violation where the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body indicate on its 
meeting notices whether a meeting is an emergency; instead, the public body must be able to 
demonstrate emergency circumstances if challenged.  
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law Where the Open Session Portion of Its 
March 17 Meeting Was Inaccessible to the Public. 
 
All meetings of a public body shall be open to the public, unless properly convened in 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Prior to convening in executive session, the public body 
must follow established procedures, including announcing the purpose for the executive session; 
taking a roll call vote to enter executive session, a vote that could fail in which case the body 
may choose to discuss the matter in open session; and announcing whether the body will 
reconvene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); see also OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that it 
had posted notice for an improper executive session topic, chose to hold the meeting in open 
session). The public body must take these procedural steps in open session and the public has a 
right to observe the body taking these steps in order to learn the purpose for the executive session 
and to be present should the discussion be held in open session instead. See OML 2020-104; 
OML 2013-856. When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, public bodies must list “open session” on the 
meeting notice or otherwise make clear that the public is invited to attend and witness the 
procedural steps, as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a 
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that the public is permitted to attend. See OML 
2020-47; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are 
essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session or the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
opportunity to witness the discussion should it proceed in open session. See OML 2025-167 
(“Additionally, and perhaps of greater concern, at least two of the Board’s calendar entries and 
meeting notices gave the impression that the Board was to meet in executive session without first 
meeting in open session.”); OML 2024-26; OML 2013-195.  
 
The complaint alleges that the open session portion of the Board’s March 17 meeting was 
inaccessible to the public for three reasons: 1) the notice did not include a Zoom link for the 
public to access the meeting; 2) the notice did not include a topic such as “Opening of the 
Meeting” indicating that the Board would first convene in open session; and 3) the website 
where the notice was posted stated that the Board would have no open session business and that 
the opening of the meeting and the vote to enter executive session would be recorded and 
broadcast later. The Board does not dispute that the notice lacked a topic such as “open session” 
and acknowledges that the website where the notice was posted stated that there would be no 
open session business. Finally, the Board explains that the meeting was held in person at a 
location that was open and accessible to the public and that it held an open session where it 
performed the required procedural steps prior to convening in executive session.  
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the notice of its March 17 
meeting failed to indicate that the Board would first meet in open session, essentially denying the 
public the opportunity to attend the open session. See OML 2024-26; OML 2013-195. 
Furthermore, we find that the language included on the Town’s website noting that there would 
be no open session business and that the call to order and vote to convene in executive session 
would be recorded and broadcast later gave the public the impression that the Board was to meet 
in executive session without first meeting in open session.  
 
Although we find that the public was denied access to the open session portion of the 
March 17 meeting, we note that where the meeting was held in person, the Board was not 
required to provide the public with remote access via Zoom, as the complaint asserts. Although 
we encourage public bodies to provide multiple means of access to their meetings, we have 
consistently explained that this is not a requirement. See OML 2023-168 (“There is no 
requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a public body provide the public with remote access 
if the meeting is instead held in-person at a location that is open and physically accessible to the 
public, even if a public body member participates remotely.”); OML 2023-155; OML 2021-79. 
 
III. The Majority of the Board’s Discussions in Executive Session on March 17 Were Not 
Appropriate for Executive Session. 
 
The purposes for executive session, as exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a 
public body shall be open, are narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
637, 641 (2008); OML 2014-42. One such purpose allows a public body to enter executive 
session “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to . . . litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the . . . litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares” 
(“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). A public body’s discussions with its counsel do not 
automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive session purpose. See Dist. Atty. for 
Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view 
[the Open Meeting Law] as a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
client in meetings of governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the 
statute.”); accord Revere  Retirement Bd. v. Attorney General, 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117 (2018) 
(Rule 1:28 Decision); OML 2012-55.  
 
Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that 
is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. Sch. Comm. of 
Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. Sch. Comm. of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 
352 (1983); OML 2012-5. To invoke Purpose 3, a public body must have a litigating position to 
protect. See OML 2012-55; OML 2011-47 (where Town Meeting passed an article specifically 
including the Finance Committee in aspects of the litigation strategy beyond its traditional 
budgetary oversight role, the Committee had a litigating position to protect); OML 2018-110 
(where the Subcommittee’s role was to advise on issues relating to the school district agreement, 
and breach of that agreement was threatened, the Subcommittee had a litigating position to 
protect with respect to initiating litigation if the contract were breached). 
 
The complaint raises issues regarding the propriety of the March 17 executive session. 
First, with respect to the School Committee’s lawsuit against the ZBA, after in camera review of 
the minutes of the Board’s March 17 executive session and discussion with counsel for the 
Board, we find that the Board did not have a litigating position with respect to the lawsuit and 
was not discussing litigation strategy. Instead, we find the Board’s executive session discussions 
here to share some similarities with those of the Brookline Advisory Committee’s at issue in 
OML 2019-164. In that determination, we found that the Brookline Advisory Committee 
improperly convened in executive session to discuss whether the Committee should make a 
statement about litigation involving the Brookline Select Board and explained that, 
  
the Committee had no litigating position of  its own. It was not meeting, for 
example, to discuss whether to intervene in the lawsuit, whether to join an amicus 
curiae brief, or whether to initiate its own litigation. Instead, it was considering 
whether to publicly comment on the litigation of another public body. That the 
Committee’s contemplated action may have  impacted the Board’s ongoing 
litigation matters did not create a litigating position for the Committee. 
 
OML 2019-164. Additionally, in OML 2019-164 we explained that although not binding, we 
found the reasoning in Collins v. Wayland Bd. of Selectmen, 31 Mass. L. Rptr. 189 (Mass. 
Super. June 3, 2013) persuasive. In Collins, the Wayland Board of Selectmen met in executive 
session thirteen times to discuss litigation brought against the Wayland Historic District 
Commission (“HDC”). In finding that eleven of the thirteen executive sessions were lawful and 
two were not, the court stated, “the Board may lawfully discuss matters relating to a potential 
litigating position of the Board in a closed session even where the Board is not a party to a 
lawsuit. But the fact that some town entity or official is involved in litigation does not give the 
Board license to discuss matters not affecting the Board’s own litigating positions out of public 
view.” Collins, 31 Mass. Rptr. 189 at *1. The court concluded that the Board of Selectmen 
lawfully met in executive session when it discussed issues such as how the Town’s refusal to pay 
for legal representation of the HDC would impact the Board of Selectmen’s own litigating 
position, whether the Board of Selectmen should intervene in the HDC litigation, whether to join 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
an amicus curiae brief, and whether to initiate its own lawsuit. However, “[o]nce the Board 
determined that it was not going to seek to press its own position in any lawsuit . . . the litigation 
exception no longer applied to any further Board discussions . . . .” Id. at *4. 
 
Here, the Board is not a named party in the School Committee’s lawsuit against the ZBA 
and abutters, and the Board was not discussing whether to intervene in the litigation, file an 
amicus brief, or initiate its own litigation. Instead, the majority of the discussion related to a 
situation the Board was concerned about and action the Board might take in response. That the 
action contemplated by the Board could have impacted the litigation between the School 
Committee and the ZBA did not create a litigating position for the Board. 
 
Finally, although we find that the majority of the Board’s discussion in executive session 
on March 17 was improper for executive session, we find that the discussion recorded in the final 
substantive paragraph of the minutes related to litigation that had been threatened against the 
Board and therefore was proper for discussion in executive session under Purpose 3.  
 
IV. We Find No Violation With Respect to the Allegation That the Notice for the March 
17 Meeting Did Not Indicate Whether the Board Would Reconvene in Open Session. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the notice for 
the March 17 meeting did not indicate whether the Board would reconvene in open session 
following its executive session. We find no violation with respect to this allegation where the 
Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body include such information on its meeting 
notice. Instead, the Open Meeting Law requires that during the open session portion prior to 
entering executive session the chair must announce whether the public body will reconvene in 
open session. In this case, Chair Powers made the required announcement and we therefore find 
no violation.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where it posted notice less than 48 hours prior to the March 17 meeting and there was no 
emergency justifying the late notice; the open session portion of the meeting was inaccessible to 
the public; and the Board discussed matters in executive session that were not appropriate for 
executive session. We find that the Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to release to the 
public the minutes of its March 17 executive session. The Board may not redact or withhold any 
portion of the minutes recording the discussions that were inappropriate for executive session. 
See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (the minutes of any executive session may be withheld from disclosure 
to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; 
provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law’s provisions regarding executive sessions); District Attv. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of 
Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting Law] as 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of 
governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2019-164; 
OML 2017-23; OML 2015-120. However, the Board may redact the last substantive paragraph 
of the minutes if the executive session purpose remains ongoing or if the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Charles K. Murphy, Sr., Chair, Fairhaven Select Board  
(via email: cmurphy@fairhaven-ma.gov)  
 Elisabeth E. Horan, Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
Lee Baumgartner (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
