===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 19, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 61 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Philip Schreffler, Esq. 
Associate General Counsel 
Cannabis Control Commission 
philip.schreffler@cccmass.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Schreffler: 
 
This office received a complaint from Shannon O’Brien on January 7, 2025, alleging that 
the Cannabis Control Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
November 22, 2024, and Associate General Counsel Michael Bergquist responded on behalf of 
the Commission by letter dated December 12, 2024. We understand the complaint to request that 
our office determine whether the Open Meeting Law permits the Commission to redact portions 
of a video recording of an executive session meeting held on April 24, 2023.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission may not rely on the Open Meeting 
Law as a basis for redacting portions of the video recording of its April 24, 2023, executive 
session meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Commission’s response, the request for further review, and the redacted video recording of 
the Commission’s April 24, 2023, executive session which is available online.
1 We also 
reviewed the Commission’s response to the Complainant’s October 16, 2024, public records 
request.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 The redacted video recording may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gIClL_yg3Ec . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on April 24, 2023, at 10:00 a.m. The notice indicated that the substantive portion of the 
meeting would be held in executive session for the purpose of discussing “Mediation Regarding 
Commission Governance.” The executive session was held as scheduled and lasted for 
approximately three- and one-half hours. During the executive session the Commission, with the 
assistance of a facilitator, reviewed in detail a draft governance charter and discussed a wide 
range of issues that broadly related to the governance and culture of the Commission. At the time 
of the April 24, 2023, meeting, the Complainant was chair of the Commission and the 
Complainant was present at the meeting. 
 
On October 16, 2024, the Complainant made a public records request to the Commission 
for, among other things, access to recordings of the Commission’s April 24, 2023, executive 
session. The Commission responded to the request on November 15, 2024, and provided the 
Complainant with access to a redacted version of a video recording of the April 24 executive 
session. In its response to the public records request, the Commission explained that it had 
redacted portions of the video recording that contained personnel or personal information and 
which were therefore exempt from disclosure under the Public Records Law, G. L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 
26(c).  
 
On November 22, 2024, the Complainant filed an Open Meeting Law Complaint with the 
Commission asserting that the Commission could not withhold portions of the video recording 
because the discussions held in executive session on April 24, 2023, were not proper for 
executive session and because the purpose of the executive session has been served.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Complaint is Timely With Respect to the Allegation That the Commission May 
Not Redact Portions of the Video Recording of its April 24, 2023, Executive Session. 
 
As an initial matter, we must address the timeliness of the complaint. To be considered 
timely, an Open Meeting Law Complaint must be filed with the public body alleged to have 
violated the Law within 30 days of the alleged violation, or if the alleged violation “could not 
reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should 
reasonably have been discovered.” G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
 
The Commission asserts that the complaint is untimely to the extent it alleges that the 
April 24, 2023, executive session was improper where the Complainant was present at the 
meeting but did not file the Open Meeting Law complaint until over a year later. We agree that 
an allegation that the April 24, 2023, executive session was improper would be untimely. 
However, that is not the allegation of the complaint. Instead, the complaint alleges that the Open 
Meeting Law does not authorize the Commission to redact any portion of the video recording of 
the April 24 executive session and that as such, on November 15, 2024, the Commission 
improperly withheld portions of the video recording. Therefore, the alleged violation date is 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
November 15, 2024—not April 24, 2023—and we find the complaint filed on November 22, 
2024, to be timely.  
 
II. The Commission Ma
 y Not Rely on the Open Meeting Law as a Basis for Redacting 
the Video Recording of its April 24, 2023, Executive Session.  
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that minutes of an executive session meeting, as well as 
the ma
terials used to prepare the minutes and documents and exhibits used at the session, “may 
be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . . . [for] as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
However, a public body may only rely on section 22(f) of the Open Meeting Law to withhold 
executive session minutes and records if “the executive session was held in compliance with 
section 21” of the Open Meeting Law. Id. Once the purpose for a lawful executive session has 
been served, “the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall 
be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public 
Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id. 
 
The minutes of an open session meeting, on the other hand, are “public records in their 
entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions under [the Public 
Records Law].” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). The same is true for “the notes, recordings or other 
materials used in the preparation of [open session] minutes and all documents and exhibits used 
at [an open] session.” Id.
2  
 
Therefore, determining whether the Open Meeting Law authorizes the withholding, in 
full
 or in part, of executive session records necessarily requires consideration of whether the 
executive session was lawfully held in the first place. The Open Meeting Law requires that all 
meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an 
executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). The ten executive session purposes are exceptions to the general rule that 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public and as such are narrowly construed. See 
McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008).  
 
Among the ten purposes for executive session is “Purpose 9,” which allows a public body 
to convene in executive session 
 
To meet or confer with a mediator, as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with 
respect to any litigation or decision on any public business within its jurisdiction 
 
2 There are two categories of open session records that the Open Meeting Law does allow to be withheld. These are:  
 
(1) materials used in a performance evaluation of an individual bearing on his professional 
competence, provided they were not created by the members of the body for the purposes of the 
evaluation; and (2) materials used in deliberations about employment or appointment of individuals, 
including applications and supporting materials; provided, however, that any resume submitted by 
an applicant shall not be exempt. 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e)(2). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
involving another party, group or entity, provided that:  (i) any decision to 
participate in mediation shall be made in an open session and the parties, issues 
involved and purpose of the mediation shall be disclosed; and (ii) no action shall 
be taken by any public body with respect to those issues which are the subject of 
the mediation without deliberation and approval for such action at an open session.  
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(9).   
 
The complaint asserts that the April 24 executive session was improper because the 
discussions did not relate to “a ‘dispute’ between two parties,” nor “mediation of a lawsuit.” 
After review of the publicly available video recording of the April 24 executive session, the 
majority of which is unredacted, we agree that the Commission’s discussions were not 
appropriate for executive session. During the executive session the Commission reviewed in 
detail a draft governance charter and discussed at length issues related to the governance and 
culture of the Commission. Although there was an individual present at the meeting who acted as 
a facilitator to assist the Commission in its efforts, this does not change the nature of the 
Commission’s discussions and the fact that the Commission was not conferring “with a mediator, 
as defined in section 23C of chapter 233, with respect to any litigation or decision . . . involving 
another party, group or entity.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(9).
3 
 
Because the Commission convened in executive session on April 24, 2023, for an 
impr
oper purpose, and because such discussions should have instead been held in open session 
for the public to witness, the Commission may not rely on section 22(f) of the Open Meeting 
Law as a basis for redacting portions of the video recording of its April 24 executive session. See 
G.L c. 30A, § 22(e) & (f); OML 2021-70; OML 2019-164.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Because a request for a video recording ultimately falls under the Public Records Law 
and not t
he Open Meeting Law, we do not order the Commission to release an unredacted 
version of the video recording. Rather, we refer the parties to the Supervisor of Records in the 
Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth for a determination under the Public Records Law 
of whether the Commission may continue to redact portions of the video recording. See OML 
2022-55. Nonetheless, in light of the issues addressed here and the violations found in OML 
2025-62, we order the Commission to review the Attorney General’s training video number 4 
regarding executive sessions as well as our Public Body Checklist regarding executive sessions.
4 
 
 
3 Discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to public business within a body’ s 
jurisdiction, such as where the discussion involves the organization, leadership, or makeup of the public body; 
committee assignments; rules or bylaws for the body; and whether the body should consider or take action on 
specific topics at a future meeting. We have consistently explained that discussions of such matters, where they fall 
within the public body’s jurisdiction, must occur during a properly noticed meeting.  See OML 2022-108; OML 
2014-108; OML 2013-27; OML 2011-38. (Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney 
General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.) 
4 Our training videos can be found on our website at https://www.mass.gov/info -details/open-meeting-law-training-
videos. Our Public Body Checklists can be found at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-
educational-materials. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Bruce Stebbins, Acting Chair, Cannabis Control Commission  
(via email: Bruce.Stebbins@CCCMass.com) 
Kajal Chattopadhyay, General Counsel, Cannabis Control Commission 
(via email: Kajal.Chattopadhyay@cccmass.com)  
 Shannon O’Brien ( via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
