===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 5, 2017 
OML 2017-3 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Peter Golrick, dated November 9, 2016, alleging 
that the Montague Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 10, 2016, and, 
after being contacted by our office, the Board responded by letter dated November 22, 2016. In 
his complaint, Mr. Golrick alleges that the Board discussed an anticipated topic that had not been 
listed on a meeting notice. 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The complaint 
concerns the Board's July 27, 2016 meeting. The notice for this meeting listed a topic as 
follows: 
Open Meetins Law Comvlaints: acknowledge receipt of two open meeting law 
complaints from Jeanne Golrick relating to notice for the Board's July 7, 2016 meeting 
and the approval of meeting minutes, and one complaint from Peter Golrick relating to 
the SM'earing in of Board members; discussion of the complaints and possible vote to 
authorize a response expected. 
The Open Meeting Law complaints at issue concerned, in part, the timely approval of 
meeting minutes. During the discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaints, the chair 
suggested that the Board formalize a policy of reviewing draft minutes from each Board meeting 
at the next meeting. A motion was made to "hear the minutes from previous meeting at our next 
scheduled meeting at the end of that meeting." This motion passed unanimously. The complaint 
argues that the notice should have stated that the Board would vote to change its policy with 
regard to approving meeting minutes. While the meeting notice did not explicitly state that the 
Board would be adopting a new policy with respect to meeting minutes in response to the Open 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Meeting Law complaints, it is reasonably inferable that public bodies may take action on any 
topics listed on a meeting notice. See OML 2015-146; OML 2015-72.1 Based on the foregoing, 
we find that the Board's meeting notice was sufficient, and that the Board therefore did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Lhis 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Peter Golrick 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
' Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 