===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 4,2018 
OML 2018-46 
Nathan Kaitz, Esq. 
Morgan, Brown & Joy, LLP 
200 State Street 
Boston, MA 02109 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Kaitz: 
This office received a complaint from Michelle Brosnahan on December 26, 
alleging that the Framingham School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about November 14, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated December 4.2 In her complaint, Ms. Brosnahan alleges that, 
during its October 16 meeting, the Committee discussed and took action on a topic that 
was not listed on the notice. Additionally, Ms. Brosnahan alleges that four Committee 
members privately discussed the topic prior to the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video-recording from the 
Committee's October 16 meeting.3 Finally, in February and March we spoke individually 
by telephone with current Committee members Rich Finlay and Scott Wadland and former 
Committee members Heather Connolly, Jim Kelly, and the complainant. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We remind the Committee that it must also send a copy of its response to our office. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 29.05(5). 
3 The video-recording is available at https://www.framingham.kl2.ma.us/Page/4045. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At the time of the filing of this complaint, the 
Committee was a seven-member public body, thus four members constitute a quorum.4 
The Committee held a regularly-scheduled meeting on October 16. Under the posted 
topic, "Bills and Payroll," Mr. Finlay raised an issue with Committee member Beverly 
Hugo, who is the Committee's designated warrant signer. Mr. Finlay challenged Ms. 
Hugo on her refusal to sign a warrant authorizing the release of funds for a golf tournament 
in support of the alpine ski team, which Mr. Finlay and Mr. Kelly helped to organize. This 
warrant was listed in the packet of warrants distributed to the Committee for its review that 
evening. Following a discussion, the Committee ultimately decided to postpone taking any 
action on the topic, including whether to remove Ms. Hugo as warrant signer, until a future 
meeting. 
Leading up to this meeting, school administrators had met with Ms. Hugo 
regarding her failure to sign the warrant. Ms. Connolly, who was the Committee chair at 
the time, attended the meeting. Other than Ms. Connolly, who learned about the issue 
from the school's business office, Mr. Kelly was the first Committee member to learn 
about the issue ahead of the October 16 meeting, though there is some discrepancy about 
whether he had heard about it from Mr. Wadland (who recalled overhearing a conversation 
between Ms. Hugo and the school superintendent) or from Ms. Hugo's husband. 
Nevertheless, Mr. Kelly submitted a public records request to the school district for emails 
relating to the issue. Upon reviewing the records, Mr. Kelly then called Mr. Finlay to 
inform him that he was the subject of some of the emails. Consequently, Mr. Finlay made 
a public records request to the school district for the same set of emails. On the morning of 
the October 16 meeting, Mr. Finlay spoke with Mr. Wadland, informing him that he, too, 
was mentioned in the emails. Mr. Finlay forwarded the emails to Mr. Wadland. Mr. 
Finlay also spoke with Ms. Connolly to inform her that he would raise the issue during the 
meeting. Aside from Mr. Finlay and Ms. Connolly, the other Committee members did not 
anticipate the topic being raised during the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
4 The Committee is presently a nine-member public body. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee communicated about the 
warrant issue outside of a meeting, evidenced by a packet of documents those Committee 
members had with them during the October 16 meeting. While it is a close question, we 
credit the Committee's account that only three Committee members—Mr. Kelly, Mr. 
Finlay, and Mr, Wadland—discussed the warrant issue outside of a meeting. The fourth 
Committee member, Ms. Connolly, had a brief discussion with Mr. Finlay about raising 
the issue during the October 16 meeting, but did not otherwise discuss the substance of the 
emails with him (though, as Chair, she knew they existed and that Mr. Finlay and Mr. 
Kelly had requested copies of them). Additionally, Mr. Finlay was the only Committee 
member with the packet of emails with him at the meeting. Because less than a quorum 
discussed the warrant issue outside of a meeting, we decline to find a violation. See OML 
2017-199; OML 2014-73: McCreav. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008) 
(holding a public body may not engage in a serial deliberation, whereby a quorum 
communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within 
the public body's jurisdiction).5 
The complaint also alleges that Mr. Finlay made a motion to remove Ms. Hugo as 
warrant signer under the topic, "Bills and Payroll," even though the meeting notice did not 
indicate that the Committee would take a vote on this topic. We have said that it is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following 
discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice, even where the noticed topic does not 
indicate the possibility of a vote. See OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. Accordingly, we 
find no violation for this omission. In any event, the chair was unaware that Mr. Finlay 
would raise the issue until the morning of the meeting. Thus, the Committee was 
permitted to proceed with its discussion of the topic as the chair did not anticipate this 
discussion at the time that the notice was posted at least 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting.6 See OML 2018-22; OML 2016-103. Although a public body may consider an 
unanticipated topic that was not listed in the meeting notice, however, our office strongly 
encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on unnoticed topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public. See OML 2016-23; OML 
2012-85. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http ://www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
6 We note that, had the topic been anticipated at the time that the notice was posted, a broad topic such as, 
"Bills and Payroll," would not have sufficiently indicated to the public that a discussion of this particular 
warrant or Ms. Hugo's position as warrant signer would occur at the meeting. We remind the Committee 
that the Open Meeting Law requires topics to be sufficiently specific so that a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-35. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Michelle Brosnahan 
Framingham School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 