===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 49 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Frank Duffy, Esq.  
Falmouth Town Counsel 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Duffy: 
This office received a complaint from David Moriarty on February 14, 2022, alleging that 
the Falmouth Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 24, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated February 4.1 In his complaint, Mr. Moriarty alleges that an item on 
the notice for the Board’s January 15 meeting was insufficiently specific. 
Following our review, we find that the Board’s notice for a January 15 meeting was 
insufficiently specific, but that the Board remedied the insufficiency by posting a more specific 
notice for a January 31 meeting and discussing the matter again at that meeting. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed notices and recordings of the 
Board’s January 15 and 31 meetings. Finally, we reviewed the Falmouth 2022 Annual Town 
Meeting warrant articles.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During the November 2021 Annual Falmouth Town 
Meeting, the town voted to approve Article 22, the creation of a municipal light plant to enable 
the town to build and operate a town-owned broadband network. Under state law, a town must 
vote at two town meetings not more than 13 months apart to approve the creation of a municipal 
light plant. The creation of the town broadband network has been supported by a residents’ 
advocacy organization, FalmouthNet. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The notice for the Board’s January 15 meeting contained an item under the heading 
“BUSINESS,” “5. Discussion of FalmouthNet Board.”2 During an approximately seventeen-
minute discussion at the January 15 meeting, the Board agreed that the municipal light plant, if 
approved a second time at the April 2022 town meeting, would need a board to govern it. The 
Board also agreed that waiting for the next regularly scheduled municipal election after the April 
2022 town meeting would leave the new board vacant for too long. Therefore, the Board voted 
its intent to support a request to the legislature for a special act to allow the Town to hold a 
special election to coincide with the statewide election in November 2022 in order to elect 
members of the new board.  
Mr. Moriarty filed his Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board on January 24. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on January 31. The notice contained 
an item under the category “BUSINESS,” “1. Discuss and Vote preference for potential 
Municipal Light Plant Board.” During a thirty-minute discussion as part of the January 31 
meeting, the Board again discussed the need for a municipal light plant board to govern the 
proposed light plant and the costs and benefits of petitioning the legislature for a special election 
to elect the new board’s first members. The Board took questions from two members of the 
public, including Mr. Moriarty. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board voted 3 in favor 
and 2 opposed to support a petition to the legislature for a special election.  
The warrant for the upcoming Falmouth 2022 Town Meeting, scheduled for April 4, 
contains three articles related to the creation of the municipal light plant, Article 25 “Petition: 
Establish and Maintain a Municipal Light Plant,” Article 26 “Petition: Elect a Municipal Light 
Board,” and Article 27 “Authorize: Special Election for the Purpose of Electing a Municipal 
Light Plan Board.” 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Although the Law does not 
require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion, it requires public bodies 
to identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-
156; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.3 
 We find that the topic “Discussion of FalmouthNet Board” did not reasonably notify the 
public about the nature of the Board’s anticipated discussion on January 15. The meeting notice 
suggested that the Board would discuss the governing structure of the residents’ advocacy 
organization, FalmouthNet. We find that the meeting notice did not sufficiently advise members 
of the public that the Board would be discussing the creation of a new town board to oversee the 
 
2 We take this opportunity to remind that Board that the date and time that a notice is posted must be conspicuously 
recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
operation of a municipal light plant tasked with the creation of a town broadband network. See 
OML 2019-89; OML 2021-202 (meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of the public 
that the Board would be discussing a large used vehicle processing facility—a topic that no 
doubt was the subject of immense public interest—where meeting notice merely contained 
developer’s nickname for the project, which was not generally understood by the public). We 
therefore find that the Board posted an insufficiently specific notice for its January 15 meeting. 
 Next, we consider whether the Board adequately remedied the January 15 violation when 
it posted notice for a January 31 meeting, with a more accurate and specific description of the 
topic to be discussed, and again discussed the creation of a municipal light plant board and 
closely related matters. Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, 
deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of 
action taken in violation of the Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. 
App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49. In order to remedy a violation such as 
the one here, a public body may conduct deliberations anew at a subsequent meeting that is 
accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided. We find that the notice that was 
posted for the January 31 meeting was sufficiently specific and that the Board’s discussion 
during the January 31 meeting constituted appropriate remedial action. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board’s notice for the January 15 meeting 
was insufficiently specific, but that the Board remedied the violation of the Open Meeting Law 
during its January 31 meeting. As the Board had already taken appropriate remedial action 
before this complaint was filed with our office, we order no further relief. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: David Moriarty (via e-mail:  
 Falmouth Select Board (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 