===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
October , 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 185 
 
 
Robert Button, Chair 
East Brookfield Conservation Commission 
122 Connie Mack Drive 
East Brookfield, MA 01515 
 
By email only: rbutton@eastbrookfieldma.us 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Button: 
 
This office received a complaint from David Wojcik on September 22, 2021, alleging 
that the East Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on August 4, 2021.  The Commission did not respond to the complaint, nor did it respond to 
numerous communications from our office.  The complaint alleges that the Commission has not 
created and maintained minutes for most of its meetings held during the past twenty years and 
also has not posted meeting notices containing a list of topics to be discussed. 
 
After review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review.  In the course of our investigation, we also reviewed the website 
where East Brookfield public body meeting notices are posted and spoke by phone with Town 
Clerk Susan Jacobs and Board of Selectmen Secretary Debbie Morgan.  We called the listed 
phone number for the East Brookfield Conservation Commission multiple times between 
October 2021 and September 2022, each time unable to leave a message after receiving a 
message that the voicemail box was full.  Finally, between September 2021 and May 2022 we 
emailed the Commission twice using the listed email address and also emailed Commission 
Chair Robert Button twice, but did not receive any response.   
 
  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  
 
For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a 
manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which 
the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  Alternatively, a municipality may designate a 
website as an alternative notice posting location; once the website is adopted as the official 
notice posting location for the municipality, all meeting notices for all public bodies within the 
municipality must be posted to the website and notices must continue to be sent to the municipal 
clerk.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b) and (c); OML 2021-94; OML 2021-63; OML 2020-140.
 2  At times 
relevant to this complaint the Town of East Brookfield’s official notice posting location was a 
physical posting, though in January 2022 our office was notified that the Town had adopted its 
website as the official notice posting method.  See 940 CRM 29.03(1)(c).   
 
The Open Me
 eting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.”  However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11(2).  The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post their meeting 
minutes to a website, but minutes must be made available within 10 days of a request, if they 
exist and whether approved or in draft form.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); OML 2017-98; OML 
2017-25 
 
Despite numerous requests from our office, we did not receive any response from the 
Commis
sion.  The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial 
action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Moreover, the Open Meeting 
Law requires that, “[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or any other 
... official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all information necessary to 
conduct such investigation available to the attorney general.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a).  We caution 
the Commission that failing to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint and failing to 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
respond to our request for information and/or materials in the course of an investigation are 
themselves violations of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2016-127. 
 
Town Clerk Susan Jacobs informed our office that for at least the prior few years the 
Commission had not filed meeting notices with her to post, nor had she received meeting 
minutes.  Where the Commission did not respond to the complaint or to our office’s many 
attempts to contact the Commission and its Chair, and did not deny any of the allegations raised 
in the complaint, we find that it failed to create and maintain meeting minutes for many years 
prior to the filing of this complaint in August 2021, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We 
also find that the Commission did not post notice of each meeting containing a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipated would be discussed, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We understand from speaking with the Town Clerk as well as t
 he Board of Selectmen’s 
Secretary that a secretary who previously provided administrative support to the Commission 
resigned “a long time ago.”  The responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law rests 
with public bodies and members of such bodies, not with individual public employees, such as 
administrative staff.  See OML 2021-177; OML 2018-105. If staff resources are not available to 
create meeting notices or minutes, then public body members must take on this responsibility 
themselves to ensure compliance with the Law.  See OML 2021-177; OML 2018-111. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law and may result in the imposition of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional 
violation.  In addition, we order all members of the Commission to attend an Open Meeting Law 
webinar training provided by our office within 90 days of the date of this letter and to certify to 
our office that they have done so.
3   
 
Finally, we order the Commission to create minutes for as many meetings as it deems 
possible to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, including recordings and 
the notes and recollections of the attendees, with a focus on meetings from the past two years.  
Within 90 days of receipt of this letter, the Commission shall certify to our office that it has 
complied with this order to create meeting minutes. If the Commission is unable to create 
minutes for any meetings for which minutes do not yet exist, it must, within 90 days of receipt of 
this letter, explain to this office in writing what efforts it made to create those minutes. 
 
  
 
3 Information on Open Meeting Law webinar trainings is available at https://www mass.gov/service -details/open-
meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: East Brookfield Conservation Commission (by e- mail: 
conservation@eastbrookfieldma.us) 
 David Wojcik (by email: ) 
 Susan Jacobs, Town Clerk (by email: townclerk@eastbrookfieldma.us) 
 Deborah Morgan, Secretary, East Brookfield Board of Selectmen (by email: 
ebbos300@eastbrookfieldma.us) 
  
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
