===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 14, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 163 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Richard Mahoney 
Woburn Public Library Board of Trustees 
 
 
  RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Mahoney: 
This office received two complaints, from Lynne Arnold and Kathleen O’Doherty, on 
August 31, 2020, alleging that the Woburn Public Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed 
with the Board on June 5 and 9, respectively.1 You responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated June 26. The complaints allege that the Board failed to provide complete access 
information on the notice for the Board’s June 2, 2020 virtual meeting.2 Following our review, 
we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. For meetings of local public bodies, “notice shall be filed with the 
municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on 
the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). Meetings of a 
public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Under Governor Baker’s March 12 Executive Order suspending 
certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, public bodies are permitted to meet entirely 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 In addition, Ms. Arnold also alleges that the Board’s meeting minutes are not publicly available on the City’s 
website. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to post meeting minutes to a municipal 
website. See OML 2017-160; OML 2016-94. Rather, the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to provide 
copies of meeting minutes from an open meeting within 10 days of a written request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
remotely, provided that the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public access to 
the deliberations of the public body.3 “Adequate, alternative means” may include, without 
limitation, providing public access through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video 
conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of 
the public body in real time. 
 For remote meetings, public bodies must continue to post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting, not including weekends or state holidays, using the official 
notice posting method (physical notice or website), even if the clerk’s office is closed. If access 
to the meeting will be provided through “adequate, alternative means,” the meeting notice must 
include clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. See OML 2020-102. A public 
body may require members of the public to call to obtain access information for the meeting, 
rather than including such information on the meeting notice. In such situations, the meeting 
notice must include clear contact information, and members of the public must be able to obtain 
the meeting access information up to and throughout the duration of the meeting; members of the 
public cannot be required to register in advance to attend a meeting. Id.  
 The Board concedes that the notice for the June 2 meeting did not contain the full link 
necessary to access the Zoom meeting, as the link had been shortened by inadvertent error. We 
therefore find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. At a June 9 meeting, in response to the 
complaints, the Board voted to have the Director verify the accuracy of future meeting notices 
once the notices are posted. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lynne Arnold (via e-mail: ) 
 Kathleen O’Doherty (via e-mail: ) 
 Woburn City Solicitor Ellen Callahan Doucette (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
3 Governor Baker’s Executive Order may be found at https://www.mass.gov/doc/open-meeting-law-order-march-12-
2020/download 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 