===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 19, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 137 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Talib Sadiq 
Principal, Amherst Regional High School 
sadiqt@arps.org 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Principal Sadiq: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lonna Steinberg on March 30, 2024,
1 alleging that 
the School Site Council for the Amherst Regional Middle School (the “Council”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council 
on March 10. The Council did not respond to the complaint. The complaint alleges that the 
Council held its first meeting on March 6 without posting notice in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint; the 
request for further review; an April 1 email from Principal Talib Sadiq;3 an agenda posted to the 
Amherst-Pelham Regional Middle School’s website for a Council meeting to be held on April 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also states, “At the first meeting, a co-chair is required to be chosen, and the meetings are all open 
to the public.” It is unclear whether this statement was intended as an additional allegatio n. However, we note that 
the Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open and accessible to the public, unless a 
lawful executive session as been convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. The Open Meeting Law does not speak to the 
election of co-chairs. We do not address whether any other law, regulation, or local rule outside the Division of 
Open Government’s jurisdiction may impose such a requirement.   
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
3;4 and information posted to the Amherst Regional High School’s website regarding the 
establishment of a school site council for the middle and high schools.5  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, a public body must post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics must “have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body’s discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.
6  
 
For regional school districts, notice must be filed with the municipal clerk of each city 
and town within the district, and each municipal clerk must post the notice in the manner 
prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town. 940 CMR 29.03(4)(a). As an alternative, a 
regional school district committee may adopt the regional school district’s website as the official 
notice posting location for the district. 940 CMR 29.03(4)(b). Here, the Amherst Regional 
School Committee has adopted the regional school district’s website, arps.org, as the district’s 
official notice posting location. When a website has been adopted as the official notice posting 
location, notices posted to the website should be readily accessible from the main page in a clear 
and intuitive location. 
 
 The complaint alleges that the Council met on March 6 without first posting notice in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. The Council did not respond to the complaint or this 
allegation. Instead, On April 1, in response to an email from our office inquiring about the status 
of the Council’s response, Principal Sadiq responded by providing a link to the agenda for the 
Council’s April 3 meeting and stating, “It was posted today on the district and ARMS websites. 
Let me know if you have any other questions or concerns.” 
 
 The Council does not dispute that it met on March 6 without first posting notice in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Based on information available online, including the 
agenda for the Council’s April 3 meeting, which we note was not timely posted and did not 
include the address of the meeting location, we find that the Council met on March 6 without 
first posting proper notice of the meeting, and therefore violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
  
  
 
4 ARMS Site Council Agenda 4/3/2024 (Apr. 2, 2024), https://arps.org/arms/arms-site-council-agenda-4-3-2024/. 
5 Message from the Principal: School Site Council at ARHS (Dec. 14, 2023), 
https://arhsparentcenter.org/2023/12/14/message-from-the-principal-school-site-council-at-arhs/. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Additionally, because of the Council’s failure to post notice and failure to properly or 
timely respond to the Open Meeting Law complaint, we have serious concerns about the 
Council’s awareness of the Open Meeting Law and its obligation to comply with the Law.7 We 
note that the Open Meeting Law requires that, 
 
Within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body 
shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of 
the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy 
of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open 
meeting law and its application . . . . The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open 
meeting law and the consequences of violating it. 
 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). If there are members of the Council who have not reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law educational materials or have not completed the certification form, 
those members must obtain such materials from the Attorney General’s website and 
complete the certification form.
8 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting 
Law by meeting on March 6 without posting proper notice of the meeting. We order the 
Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that 
a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered 
evidence of an intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we order the chair 
or co-chairs of the Council
9 to attend a webinar training on the Open Meeting Law 
conducted by our office within the next 90 days.10  
 
  
  
 
7 The Legislature has made clear that meetings of a school council are subject to the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
71, § 59C. (Section 59C cites to an old version of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law is now found at 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25). 
8 The educational materials and certification form may be found at https://www.mass.gov/info -details/complete-
public-body-member-certification. 
9 G.L. c. 71, § 59C provides that the principal of the school shall act as co-chair of the Council. 
10 Information about our webinars can be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/info-
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rich Ferro, Co-Principal, Amherst Regional Middle School  
(via email: ferror@arps.org) 
 Doreen Reid, Co-Principal, Amherst Regional Middle School  
(via email: reidd@arps.org) 
Lonna Steinberg (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
