===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
June 16, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 72  
 
 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C.  
101 Arch Street, 12
th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only: tmcenaney@k-plaw.com 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McEnaney: 
 
This office received a complaint from Amy Smith on May 27, 2020, alleging that the 
Georgetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,   
§§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 9 and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 23, following an extension of time granted by our 
office.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that i) the Board deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting by participating in a workshop with the Town Administrator, Planning Board and 
Zoning Board of Appeals, and ii) a member of the Board has a conflict of interest because he 
also serves on the Zoning Board of Appeals. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notices and open session minutes of the 
Board’s December 16, 2019, and February 6 meetings.  We also reviewed relevant open session 
minutes of meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals held between November 7, 2017, and May 
7, 2019.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020, unless otherwise indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting by 
participating in a workshop.2  On July 20, 2018, G. Mello Disposal Corporation met with the 
Town Administrator, as well as the Chairs of the Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Planning 
Board, Board of Health, and Conservation Commission, to discuss the proposed expansion of its 
transfer station on East Main Street in Georgetown, as well as possible alternate sites for 
relocation of the transfer station.3  None of the five public bodies that attended this workshop 
posted notice of a meeting.  Nevertheless, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
The Board is a five-member public body; thus three members constitute a quorum.  Here, only 
one member of the Board, the Chair, participated in the workshop.  As such, because only one 
member of the Board, a subquorum, attended and participated in the workshop, the Board did not 
hold a “meeting” for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2016-
99; OML 2013-106.4  Further, we note that an informal gathering of public officials - here, the 
chairs of various public bodies - does not constitute a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2013-70; OML 2012-51. 
 
The complaint further alleges that a member of the Board has a conflict of interest 
because he also serves on the Zoning Board of Appeals and therefore should not have 
participated in the Board’s December 16, 2019, open session meeting where the Board discussed 
the transfer station and the various pending special permits and applications with members of the 
Conservation Commission, Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals.  The complaint also 
contends that a conflict of interest arose when the Board “instructed and lectured” other public 
bodies about the importance of approving the transfer station and provided “unsubstantiated and 
fictitious” facts regarding the transfer station.  The Division of Open Government’s statutory 
authority concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Even if 
true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
 
2 The complaint seems to allege that the Zoning Board of Appeals and/or the Planning Board also violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting by participating in the July 20, 2018, workshop.  
However, the complaint was only filed with the Board.  Therefore, we decline to review any allegations that the 
Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law because we find that the complaint was 
not properly filed with either of those public bodies.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (the Open Meeting Law requires that 
a complainant file a written complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the 
alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged violation); OML Declination 8-10-16 
(Mendon Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 10-6-14 (Yarmouth Open Space Committee).  Nevertheless, 
where only one member of the Zoning Board of Appeals and one member of the Planning Board attended the 
workshop, it appears that neither public body held a “meeting” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 
3 At the time of the workshop, G. Mello Disposal Corporation had pending special permit applications before the 
Zoning Board of Appeals to upgrade and expand its transfer station at 203 East Main Street, and a pending Notice of 
Intent application before the Conservation Commission to build a new transfer station within the wetlands buffer 
zone. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); OML Declination 5-
21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).  The Board duly posted notice of the 
December 16, 2019, meeting, the notice included a specific topic for discussion of the transfer 
station, and the notice stated that that portion of the meeting would be a joint meeting with the 
Conservation Commission, Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals.5  Therefore, we 
decline to review these allegations and refer the complainant to the State Ethics Commission, 
which enforces the Commonwealth’s Conflict of Interest Law.  See OML 2013-54. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       K e r r y A n n e  K i l c oyne 
       A s s i s t a n t  A t t o r n e y  G e n e r a l  
       D i v i s i o n  o f  O p e n  G o v e r n m e n t  
 
 
cc: 
  Amy Smith – By e-mail only:  
Georgetown Board of Selectmen c/o Town Administrator Michael Farrell – By e-mail 
only: mfarrell@georgetownma.gov 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
5 The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific 
individuals or groups of individuals, such as abutters, for topics discussed during a meeting.  See OML 2013-41; 
OML 2011-41.   
