===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 6, 2024 
 
 
Patrick J. Costello, Esq. 
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
Ten Post Office Square, Suite 1330 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: pcostello@lccplaw.com  
 
RE: Reconsideration of OML 2023-158 
 
Dear Attorney Costello:  
 
Our office received a March 2, 2024, email from Arden Russell, Chair of the Mashpee 
Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”), requesting reconsideration of our 
September 25, 2023, determination, OML 2023-158, resolving a complaint filed by Meredith 
Kilpatrick concerning the Committee.  The complaint alleged that the Committee deliberated 
outside of a properly posted meeting.  Specifically, we reviewed whether a quorum of the 
Committee deliberated via email and via other forms of communication prior to a September 1, 
2023, meeting and discussed the Committee’s reorganization and application for possible 
purchase of property at 751 Main Street.  While we determined that email communications 
related to administrative tasks or were exchanged between a subquorum of Committee members 
and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we found that a quorum of members 
engaged in other forms of communication outside of a meeting and discussed either 
reorganization or the potential purchase of property at 751 Main Street, and therefore violated 
the Open Meeting Law. 
 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of an 
Open Meeting Law determination or declination.  While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual issue 
that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.  
 
Following the issuance of our determination OML 2023-158, the Committee provided six 
affidavits signed by six individual Committee members each stating that they did not 
communicate “via other forms of communication” prior to the September 1, 2023, meeting.  This 
information was not previously known to the Division and impacts our analysis of whether a 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
quorum of the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  Although the 
Division would not typically reconsider a determination where a public body provides 
information after the issuance of that determination that could have been provided earlier in 
response to the initial complaint, we understand that the Committee mistakenly believed that the 
allegations pertained to email communications and not to deliberation more broadly. 
Accordingly, we grant Ms. Russell’s request for reconsideration and reissue the determination.  
We now conclude that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meredith Kilpatrick – By email only:   
Mashpee Community Preservation Committee c/o Chair Arden Russell and 
Recording Secretary Kathy Soares – By email only: ;   
ksoares@mashpeema.gov  
 
 
 
 
        
  

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2023 – 158 
 
 
Patrick J. Costello, Esq. 
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
Ten Post Office Square, Suite 1330 
Boston, MA 02109 
 
By email only: pcostello@lccplaw.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Costello: 
 
This office received a complaint from Meredith Kilpatrick on October 10, 2022, alleging 
that the Mashpee Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about September 28, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by 
letter dated October 18.  The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a 
properly posted meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and 
minutes of the Committee meeting held on September 1.  In addition, we spoke separately with 
Committee Chair Arden Russell and Member Mary Waygan and reviewed written affidavits 
from six Committee members.2 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022.  
2 The six Committee members that submitted written affidavits are Arden Russell, B. Lynne Barbee, Richard Klein, 
Mary Waygan, Chad R.A. Smith, and David Weeden.  We note that Mr. Smith and Mr. Weeden are no longer 
members of the Committee. 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id. 
 
Here, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 1 at 6:30 P.M.  
The notice listed eight topics, including “Reorganization of Officers,” Review of an Application 
from the Planning and Conservation Department “to acquire 751 Main Street for Open Space/ 
Conservation” and “Possible Vote to Expend CPA Administrative Funds to conduct an 
independent Appraisal of 751 Main Street; 8-acres for Open Space/Conservation Purposes.”  
During the meeting, the Committee reorganized and appointed Arden Russell as Chair, Dawn 
Thayer as Vice Chair, and Brian Hyde as Clerk.  Towards the end of the meeting, the Committee 
reviewed an application for funding from the Planning Department and Conservation 
Commission which sought to acquire an 8-acre parcel at 751 Main Street which would expand a 
conservation area and protect a parcel within the Mashpee National Wildlife Refuge.  The 
Commission unanimously accepted the application and voted to authorize an independent 
appraisal of the property at a cost not to exceed $4,000. 
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated prior to the September 
1 meeting and discussed the Committee’s reorganization and application for possible purchase of 
property at 751 Main Street.  The Committee is a nine-member public body; thus, five members 
constitute a quorum.   
 
After reviewing numerous emails3 exchanged between a quorum of Committee members 
in late August, we find that most of the email communications related to the scheduling of the 
September 1 meeting.  Communications between a quorum of public body members for the 
purpose of choosing a meeting date is not deliberation, even if the discussion is between a 
quorum of the public body, so long as discussion is limited to a request to schedule a meeting 
and the availability of members on proposed meeting dates.  See OML 2020-94.4  We also find 
that certain of these emails simply shared the application materials pertaining to 751 Main Street 
that the Committee planned to review and discuss during the September 1 meeting.  Documents 
shared with a quorum of members that do not contain any members’ opinions do not violate the 
 
3 This office reviewed over 100 pages of emails that were provided to the complainant in response to a public 
records request. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Open Meeting Law as they are simply the distribution of a document.  See OML 2021-91; OML 
2020-88; OML 2020-48.  Both types of communications - scheduling a meeting and the 
distribution of a document - are administrative tasks and fall outside of the definition of 
deliberation.  See OML 2020-94.  As such, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to these email communications. 
 
We find that a few of the emails exchanged in late August conveyed Committee 
members’ thoughts or opinions on the application and possible purchase of 751 Main Street, 
which was a matter within the jurisdiction of the Committee.  However, these emails were 
exchanged between two members, a subquorum, and we find no specific evidence that the 
Committee communicated in a serial manner.  A public body may not engage in a serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2015-3; 
OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that 
private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the Law).   
 
The remaining emails, which pertained to 751 Main Street, were either sent by one 
Committee member to an individual public official, such as the Town Planner or Town Manager, 
or were sent by that individual public official to Committee members.  Individual public officials 
are not public bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-3.  
Therefore, any emails sent by a Committee member to an individual public official do not 
constitute improper deliberation.  Any emails sent by the individual public official, who is not a 
member of the Committee or otherwise subject to the Open Meeting Law, to a quorum of the 
Committee also do not constitute improper deliberation.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2014-80.  As 
such, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to these 
communications.  See OML 2020-71. 
 
In addition, the Committee denies that a quorum of members engaged in other forms of 
communication prior to the September 1 meeting to discuss either reorganization or the potential 
purchase of property at 751 Main Street.  In fact, six Committee members provided signed 
affidavits stating that they did not communicate with each other outside of a noticed meeting to 
discuss matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee, i.e. reorganization or the application for 
the property at 751 Main Street.  We credit the Committee’s assertions and find that a quorum of 
members did not deliberate outside of a meeting.  See OML 2024-56; OML 2024-12; see also 
LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in 
favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly 
taken for the general welfare.”)  We remind the Committee that discussions concerning the 
leadership of a public body is a matter of public business that must be reserved for an open 
meeting.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2011-38.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meredith Kilpatrick – By email only:   
Mashpee Community Preservation Committee c/o Chair Arden Russell and 
Recording Secretary Kathy Soares – By email only: ;   
ksoares@mashpeema.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
