===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 44 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Erin N. Gibbons 
Chair, Wayland School Committee 
Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Gibbons: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on January 22, 2024, alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on December 4, 2023, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated December 21, 2023.
1  The complaint 
alleges that notice for the Committee’s November 15 meeting was insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its November 15 meeting.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the 
Committee’s November 15 meeting, as well as the Wayland Public Schools Policy Manual. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice for its November 15 meeting, 
which included, among others, the following topics: 
 
7. Policy Matters 
7.1 Review and Possible Approval to Vote on Updates/Revisions to the 
Following: 
a. Policy IGA and IGD; 
b. Policy IMG; 
c. Policy EFE; and 
d. Policy IE and IGD 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
No additional information about these topics was provided in the notice.  Consistent with its 
usual practice, the Committee posted online numerous documents corresponding with various of 
the meeting notice topics, including, for notice topic 7, a 14-page document that included a 
newsletter from the Massachusetts Association of School Committees as well as the text of the 
policies listed on the meeting notice.  During the Committee’s November 15 meeting, members 
of the policy subcommittee identified several sample policies from the Massachusetts 
Association of School Committees that were proposed for addition to or removal from the 
Wayland Public Schools policy manual, or for replacement or amendment of existing policies.  
The Committee engaged in discussion, and it was agreed that the policy subcommittee, in 
collaboration with the acting superintendent, would make a further recommendation regarding 
the policies.     
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  Meeting notices must include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  A public body need not list each 
and every detail about a topic, nor anticipate on the notice the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion.  See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.
2  However, 
notice topics must be described with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting so that the public can make an informed decision about 
whether to attend the meeting in order to observe an anticipated discussion.  See OML 2023-86; 
OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. 
 
The complainant asserts that the policy codes as listed on the Committee’s November 15 
meetin
g notice are unfamiliar to members of the public, and that the notice did not include 
information indicating what the codes referred to or where information could be found.  The 
Committee asserts that members of the public interested in finding more detail on the policies 
could access the meeting documents that were posted online.   We find that the codes “Policy 
IGA and IGD,” “Policy IMG,” “Policy EFE,” and “Policy IE and IGD,” without context or 
explanation, would not be widely understood by members of the public.  Although the notice 
topic suggested that a policy would be discussed, the public would not necessarily have 
understood which policies would be discussed, nor did the notice indicate how or where the 
public could find more detail about the topic to be discussed.  See, e.g., OML 2023-83 
(acronyms in the notice topic “MPS Policy BEDH/MASC Policy BEDH and BEDH-E 
Discussion” were not abbreviations or codes that would be widely understood by the public); 
OML 2023-24 (notice topic “A favorable Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance 
Revisions” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that the public body would discuss 
salary increases for city councilors and other city officials); OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022-
2023 School Year Calendar” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that school 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
committee would discuss changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school 
calendar). 
 
Although we acknowledge that the full policies corresponding with each of the listed 
policy c
odes were available online, and find no intention to conceal information from the public, 
the meeting notice itself must contain the level of specificity that the Open Meeting Law 
requires.  See OML 2022-199 (“the meeting notice itself must contain all information that the 
Open Meeting Law requires; posting attachments does not cure an otherwise defective notice.”); 
OML 2020-31 (finding meeting notice insufficient when required information was included 
within a meeting packet but not on the meeting notice itself); OML 2019-22.  Here, the meeting 
notice should have identified the nature of the listed policies or otherwise included detail 
regarding the policies to be discussed.  Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted an insufficiently specific notice for its November 15 meeting.  We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
    
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: George Harris (via e-mail: ) 
 Wayland School Committee (via e-mail: school_committee@waylandps.org ) 
 Wayland Town Clerk (via e-mail: townclerk@wayland.ma.us) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
