===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
April 30, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 58 
 
 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Mokrisky on September 15, 2020, alleging 
that the Stoughton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 5 and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 21.2  The complaint alleges that the Board entered 
into executive session for an improper purpose on July 28.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening in executive session on July 28 without a proper statutory purpose.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and 
open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on July 28, a video recording of 
the July 28 meeting,3 and the notice and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on 
August 4.   
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
3 A video recording of the Board meeting held on July 28 is available at 
http://71.184.118.35/CablecastPublicSite/show/6619?channel=2.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The complainant is a member of the Board.  The Board 
duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, July 28 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed 
ten topics, including an executive session to discuss five matters, one of which was to “consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(6) 
[31 Porter Street-Post Office site] and [45 Wyman Street-Train Depot].” 
 
The July 28 meeting was held as planned and all five Board members participated 
remotely.4  After discussing the noticed open session topics, the Board unanimously voted by roll 
call to enter into executive session to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real 
property pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(6)” for 31 Porter Street, the Post Office site, and 
45 Wyman Street, the Train Depot.  Chair Christine Howe declared that an open meeting would 
have a detrimental effect on the Board’s negotiating position and stated that the Board would not 
reconvene in open session but would adjourn the meeting at the conclusion of the executive 
session.   
 
During the executive session, the Board received an update from the Facilities Director 
on the work that had been completed on the Train Depot, a town owned building.  The Board 
discussed possible repairs to the Train Depot and the cost of those repairs.  The Board also 
discussed the need to submit an application to the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority 
(“MBTA”) for approval of any work to the Train Dept because the MBTA owns adjoining land.  
The complainant expressed concern that the Board’s discussions were not appropriate for 
executive session and should take place in an open meeting.  After Chair Howe stated that she 
believed the executive session was proper, the complainant left the meeting.  The Board 
continued to discuss the need for MBTA approval and who should submit any paperwork to the 
MBTA.  Although a motion had been made to have the Town Manager submit any applications 
to the MBTA, the Board did not take any vote or make any decision on the motion.  The 
complainant rejoined the meeting and the Board discussed the other noticed executive session 
topics.  
 
During its next meeting on August 4, the Board voted, as part of its consent agenda, to 
authorize “submission of license application with MBTA for Train Depot Work.”  The Board did 
not otherwise discuss the need for the application or any work that had occurred or would occur 
at the Train Depot.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
 
4 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law Regulations require that “[a]t the start of the meeting, the chair 
shall announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(b). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.5 
 
 One permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is “to consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in 
executive session to protect its negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease 
real estate, or to discuss the value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that 
property.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. 
Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2019-143; OML 2016-50.  Purpose 6 is intended to preserve 
confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to 
avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property.  See District 
Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 633 n.5 
(1985); OML 2019-10; OML 2016-50.   
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s discussions regarding the Train 
Depot during the July 28 executive session meeting.6  Following our review of the executive 
session minutes, we find that the Board’s discussions were not appropriate under Purpose 6 
because the discussions did not relate to the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property.  
Rather, the Board discussed repairs that had been completed and repairs to be completed to the 
Train Depot, as well as the cost of those repairs.  The Board also discussed the need for MBTA 
approval for any work to the Train Depot.  Potential uses for land and whether to proceed with a 
project are not proper discussions under Purpose 6.  See OML 2012-98.  We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by having such discussions in executive session.   
 
The Board argues that it cured any potential violation when it voted to approve in open 
session on August 4 the filing of an application with the “MBTA for Train Depot Work.”  We 
disagree.  During the August 4 meeting, the Board’s vote to approve that application occurred as 
part of its consent agenda with no discussion by the Board about the need for that application or 
work that had been or needed to be done to the property.  Therefore, this action was insufficient 
to fully address and remedy the violation committed.  See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of 
Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000), citing Tolar v. School Board of Liberty 
County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 (Fla. 1981) (explaining that in order to cure a violation, the public 
body must take an independent, deliberative action, and not merely engage in a ceremonial 
acceptance or perfunctory ratification of a secret decision); OML 2016-49; OML 2015-40. 
 
We order the Board to release to the public that portion of the July 28 executive session 
meeting minutes that pertain to the discussions involving the Train Depot.  The Board may not 
redact or withhold that portion of the minutes in any way.  See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (the minutes 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
6 Although the Board discussed other matters during the July 28 executive session, the complaint only raises 
concerns with the propriety of the Board’s discussions under Purpose 6 with respect to the Train Depot. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
of any executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; provided, however, that the executive 
session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); District Atty. for Plymouth Dist. v. 
Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting 
Law] as a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of 
governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2019-164; 
OML 2017-23; OML 2015-120. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the Train Depot in 
executive session on July 28 where those discussions did not relate to the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.  Additionally, we order the Board to publicly release that portion of its 
July 28 executive session meeting minutes that pertain to the discussions of the Train Depot.  
The Board must certify to this office within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter that it has 
released that portion of the executive session minutes.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). 
   
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Joseph Mokrisky – By e-mail only:  
Stoughton Select Board c/o Debra Leblanc, Executive Assistant – By e-mail only:  
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
