===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 26, 2011 
OML 2011-14 
Thomas A. Mullen 
545 Salem Street 
Wakefield, MA 01880 
Dear Mr. Mullen, 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by Daniel Lieber, dated December 15, 
2010, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
Wakefield School Committee (the "Committee"). The complaint alleges that the 
Committee deliberated via email regarding approval of an Acceptable Use of Technology 
Policy. More specifically, it alleges that "Vice-Chairman Lisa Butler requested a 
deliberative vote and submitted her opinion and rationale by e-mail with 3 other members 
of the Wakefield School Committee." The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on November 24, 2010. The Committee responded on December 6, 2010. 
In making our determination, we reviewed the November 24, 2010 and December 
15, 2010 complaints, and the Committee's December 6, 2010 response. We also 
reviewed email communications between members of the Committee that were provided 
by the complainant. 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by engaging in a 
deliberation via email. We conclude, however, that the actions taken by the Committee 
subsequent to the violation had the effect of curing the violation, but caution the 
Committee to be cognizant in the future of engaging in deliberations outside of a posted 
meeting. 
FACTS  
The facts do not appear to be in dispute. The Wakefield School Committee is 
made up of seven members, four constituting a quorum. The Policy Subcommittee (the 
"Subcommittee") consists of three Committee members: Daniel Lieber, Lisa Butler, and 
Anthony Guardia. The chair of the Committee is Kevin Piskadlo. According to the 
Committee's December 6, 2010 letter, "Nile Policy Subconunittee generally makes 
1 
===PAGE 2===
recommendations to the full Committee concerning proposed new policies, but any 
member of the Committee is free at any time to ask the Chair to have the full Committee 
consider and vote on any policy, with or without review and approval of the Policy 
Subcommittee." 
During the month of November 2010, the Subcommittee considered an 
Acceptable Use of Technology Policy (the "Policy") for recommendation to the full 
Committee. On November 19, 2010, Lisa Butler sent the following email to the two 
other members of the Subcommittee and copied Committee Chair Kevin Piskadlo: 
Hi Dan and Anthony, 
[S]ince we didn't have time to review the [Acceptable] Use [P]olicy changes 
made by David Knox, I am emailing the documents to you to review. I'm hoping 
we can put this on the table at the next S[chool] C[ommittee] meeting on 
Tuesday. 
One note on the changes—I informed Dave of the changes regarding the 
Authority section and the Town Administrator. I explained to him both of your 
comments and suggestions to remove it. He did tell me that he spoke to Tom 
Mullen about that and Tom suggested he keep it in. So, since it is a minor point, I 
suggest we go with this version based on Tom Mullen's feedback. I would really 
like to get this on the table and one step closer to being approved by the 
Committee. 
Please review and let me know if we can forward to Susan for Tuesday's 
meeting. Thanks and have a good weekend. 
Following this email, on November 21, 2010, Ms. Butler sent another email to 
Subcommittee members Guardia and Lieber, again copying the Committee Chair. The 
email stated, "What's the word on this policy? I would like to get it on the table for 
Tuesday's meeting. Please respond to me if you've reviewed it so we can get it to [the 
Committee Secretary]." Conimittee member Anthony Guardia responded by email, 
writing, "I thought I responded? I'm okay with it. Sorry." Mr. Lieber refused to respond 
to the emails, noting the potential conflict with the Open Meeting Law. 
On November 23, 2010, Committee Chair Kevin Piskadlo sent an email to Daniel 
Lieber: "Dan, as I told you yesterday, Lisa and Anthony both asked for the Acceptable 
Use policy to be placed on the table. After speaking with all of you, as well as the 
administration, I agreed to put it on the agenda. I know you may disagree with this 
decision, but I did want to give you a heads up." 
The Board met on November 23, 2010. The meeting notice listed a topic for 
discussion as "Subcommittee/Liaison Reports." At the meeting, the Committee voted 5-1 
to "put on the table" the Acceptable Use Policy, with Mr. Lieber dissenting. According 
to the Committee's December 6, 2010 letter, to "put on the table" a proposed policy 
2 
===PAGE 3===
means "to arrange for it to be substantively discussed and voted upon at the next  regular 
meeting occurring at least two (2) weeks after the meeting where the policy was 'tabled' 
(emphasis in original). 
DISCUSSION 
The Wakefield School Committee and its Policy Subcommittee are public bodies 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law 
requires all meetings of a public body to be conducted in an open session, with some 
exceptions. See id. at §§ 20-21. The Open Meeting Law defines a meeting, in part, as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
Id. at § 18. The Law defines "deliberation" as, "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' 
shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting [materials] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. 
Ms. Butler's November 19, 2010 email was sent to a quorum of the 
Subcommittee and to a quorum of the Committee. Her email combined a procedural 
request that the Subcommittee add the Acceptable Use Policy to the Committee's agenda 
for consideration with her opinion regarding the substance of the policy, where she 
stated, "I suggest we go with this version based on Tom Mullen's feedback." Her 
November 21, 2010 follow-up email further solicits discussion and/or approval. 
Ms. Butler communicated by email with a quorum of both the Committee and 
Subcommittee. The procedural request is not a deliberation pursuant to the definition of 
that term in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, the email 
exchange that occurred following her expression of an opinion to the Subcommittee on a 
topic under consideration by the Subcommittee constituted a deliberation outside a 
properly convened meeting. Although the subjects of the exchange were documents and 
materials intended for discussion at a future meeting, the members expressed opinions 
about the substance of changes to a document that was tantamount to approval of the 
policies included in the document. This action should have been taken during an open 
session. 
It is important to note that during the next meeting of the full Conmiittee on 
November 23, 2010, the Committee decided to table the discussion of the Policy until 
there could be a full discussion and vote at a future meeting. The deliberation on the 
Policy occurred during a duly noticed December 14, 2010 meeting. This public 
deliberation effectively cured the private discussion which occurred over email because it 
enabled the public to see the discussions that went into the creation of the Policy. To 
cure a violation of the Open Meeting Law, a public body must make an independent 
deliberative action, and not merely a ceremonial acceptance or perfunctory ratification of 
a secret decision. See Pearson v. Board of Selectmen of Longmeadow,  49 Mass.App.Ct. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
119, 125, (2000), citing Tolar v. School Bd. of Liberty County, 398 So.2d 427, 429 
(Fla.1981). By convening in open session and conducting the discussion on the Policy in 
public, the Committee engaged in an independent public deliberative action which 
mitigated the effect of the private email discussion. 
While the email sent to the subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law, we 
believe the public had the benefit of a full and open discussion by the Committee during 
its December 14, 2010 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
The Committee engaged in a private deliberation over email in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. However, the violation was effectively 
cured, in part, by the Committee engaging in a full and open discussion during its 
December 14, 2010 meeting. In order to completely cure the violation, we order the 
Committee to release the email exchange between members of the Subcommittee in 
which the Acceptable Use of Technology Policy was discussed, if it has not done so 
already. 
In addition, we remind the members of the Committee of their obligation to be 
familiar with and follow the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. This includes 
refraining from sharing opinions or discussing Committee business between or among a 
quorum of members, either via email or under any other circumstances, outside of an 
appropriately posted meeting. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions. 
Sincerepiy, 
.ae 
l onathan Sclarsic 
ikssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Daniel Lieber 
cc: Wakefield School Committee 
4 