===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 24, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 134 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Marjorie A. Macarelli 
Peabody School Committee Secretary 
macarellim@peabody.k12.ma.us 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Marjorie Macarelli: 
 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Michael Donahue on 
February 17, 2023, alleging that the Captain Samuel Brown Elementary School Council (the 
“Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1 You responded on behalf of 
the Peabody School Committee by letter dated January 27, 2023. The complaint alleges that the 
Council 1) failed to properly post notice for meetings held during the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 
school years; and 2) failed to comply with the requirements of 950 CMR 32.05(1)(f) with respect 
to electronic access to meeting minutes.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post sufficient notice of its meetings. We decline to review whether the Council failed to 
comply with 950 CMR 32.05(1)(f) where this is a regulation promulgated under the Public 
Records Law and not the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, including email chains and other attachments provided therewith; 
the School Committee’s response; the request for further review; Council meeting notices posted 
for school years 2021-2022 and 2022-2023; and meeting minutes for various Council meetings. 
We also communicated with Ms. Macarelli
2 via email. 
 
1 We remind the Complainant that complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the 
public body alleged to have violated the Law within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations further require that a complaint alleging that a local 
public body violated the Open Meeting Law be filed with the Chair of the public body as well as with the municipal 
clerk. See 940 CMR 29.05(3). Finally, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that Open 
Meeting Law complaints be “in writing, using the form approved by the Attorney General and available on the 
Attorney General’s website.” 940 CMR 29.05(1). 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
First, the Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall 
post noti
ce of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include the date, time, and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair, and any other individual 
authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance of the meeting, will 
be discussed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152. The topics for 
discussion must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Council failed to properly post notices for its meetings 
held during the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 school years. We agree. For each school year the 
Council posted one notice to the City’s official notice posting location. Each notice listed all 
anticipated meeting dates for the respective school year and the same two generic topics: 
“miscellaneous school matters” and “any other matters properly brought before the council if 
time permits.” This is entirely insufficient to comply with the requirement of the Open Meeting 
Law that meeting notices include a list of the topics that the chair, or other individual authorized 
to create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance, will be discussed at the meeting 
as well as the requirement that those topics be listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 
 
Next, we decline to review the allegation that the Council failed to comply with the 
requirements of 950 CMR 32.05(1)(f) with respect to electronic access to meeting minutes. The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25, and its regulations, 940 CMR §§ 29.01-29.11. Because this allegation concerns 
the Council’s compliance with the Public Records Law and its regulations, we decline to review 
this allegation.
3 Additionally, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that meeting 
minutes be posted to a website, but rather that they be created and approved in a timely manner 
and made available upon request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); see also OML Declination 1-14-13 
(Board of Boiler Rules); OML Declination 9-27-21 (Harvard School Committee). However, we 
do encourage public bodies to post meeting minutes to a website when possible so as to provide 
the public with convenient access to minutes. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the documents provided to our office 
and ident
ified by Ms. Macarelli as the Council’s meeting minutes are insufficient to comply with 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. The Law requires that public bodies “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
Minutes must include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, 
a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id. When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
 
3 Questions about the Public Records Law should be directed to the Public Records Division within the Secretary of 
the Commonwealth’s Office at 617-727-2832 or pre@sec.state ma.us. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
unders
tanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106.  
 
The documents identified to our office as the Council’s meeting minutes include the date, 
time, and location of the meetings. They also include a list of what appears to be all members of 
the Council but otherwise do not identify which members were present or absent at the meetings. 
The minutes do not list any documents or exhibits used at the meetings. Finally, the minutes do 
not summarize any of the discussions that occurred and do not record any of the decisions made 
or actions or votes taken. Instead, the minutes simply include a bulleted list of the topics 
discussed.
4  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post sufficient notice of its meetings. We order the Council’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a future similar violation may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. In addition, we recommend that the Council 
amend its past meeting minutes, to the best of its ability, in accordance with the guidance 
provided above. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council, the 
School Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lauren King, Captain Samuel Brown Elementary School Council  
c/o Marjorie A. Macarelli (via email: macarellim@peabody.k12.ma.us) 
 
4 For example, the entire substantive portion of the minutes for the Council’s November 10, 2022, meeting states as 
follows: 
 
●Review the 2022 MCAS Data 
● Miscellaneous school matters 
○ School Safety 
■ Arrival/Dismissal 
● Any other matters properly brought before the council if time permits 
○ Veteran’s Day Assembly. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Mayor Edward Bettencourt, Jr., Chair, Peabody School Committee (via email: 
edward.bettencourt@peabody-ma.gov) 
Joshua Vadala, Superintendent of Peabody Public Schools (via email: 
vadalaj@peabody.k12.ma.us) 
Allyson Danforth, City Clerk (via email: Allyson.Danforth@peabody-ma.gov) 
Colleen Kolodziej, Assistant City Clerk (via email: colleen.kolodziej@peabody-ma.gov) 
Michael Donahue (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
