===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass. gov/ago 
June 18, 2015 
OML 2015-80 
Rene Racine, Chair 
Acushnet Housing Authority 
23 Main Street 
Acushnet, MA 02743 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Racine: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. James S. Madruga, Jr., dated March 25, 
alleging that the Acushnet Housing Authority Board of Directors (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on February 20, and the Board responded in an undated letter received by our office on March 
13. In his complaint, Mr. Madruga alleges that the Board denied his request to have counsel 
present during an executive session convened pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), as well as his 
request to have the discussion conducted in open session. Furthermore, Mr. Madruga objects to 
the presence of a police officer during the executive session at issue. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of an open session 
meeting held by the Board on January 22, and we reviewed, in camera, the minutes of an 
executive session held by the Board on this same date. Finally, we reviewed an audio recording 
of both the open and executive session meetings held on January 22. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body of which Mr. 
Madruga is a member. On January 15, Mr. Madruga received a letter from the Board. The letter 
stated that the Board would convene in executive session on January 21 to discuss complaints 
regarding Mr. Madruga's behavior as a Board member. The letter also states the following: 
"You have the right to be present at this meeting. The Board shall hold the meeting in open 
session if you request that it be held in open session. If executive session is held, you have the 
following rights: To be present at the executive session during deliberations or considerations 
which involve you; To have counsel or [a] representative of your choosing present and attending 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
for the purpose of advising you and not for the purpose of active participation; To speak on your 
own behalf; To cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by audio 
recording or transcription, at your own expense." 
On January 20, the Board's Executive Director sent an e-mail to the other Board 
members stating that the meeting at issue was being moved to January 22, one day later than 
planned. Mr. Madruga was one of the recipients listed on this e-mail. The meeting notice was 
filed with the Town Clerk on January 20, and date-stamped on that day, over 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. 
The Board first convened in open session on January 22. During the open session 
meeting, Mr. Madruga requested that the discussion of the complaints regarding his behavior be 
continued until a later meeting, as he had been unable to secure legal counsel. Chair Racine 
stated that Mr. Madruga had no right to delay the meeting.2 Another Board member stated that 
the discussion could be conducted in open session. After significant discussion, Mr. Madruga 
agreed to hold the discussion in executive session, although Mr. Madruga asked that it be noted 
that he was participating "under duress" because he did not have legal counsel present. Because 
of security concerns, a uniformed police officer was present in the meeting room, during both the 
open and executive sessions. Mr. Madruga also objected to the presence of the officer at the 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for convening an executive session is, "[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed in a Purpose 1 executive session must be notified 
in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id The 
individual must also be afforded the right to be present during the deliberations that involve that 
individual, the right to speak on his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise 
but not participate, and the right to have an independent record of the meeting made at the 
individual's own expense. Id 
Here, Mr. Madruga was informed of his rights by the letter he received on January 15. 
That letter accurately described Mr. Madruga's procedural rights with regard to the proposed 
discussion. While the law affords the subject of a Purpose 1 executive session the right to have 
counsel present, the law does not require that a public body delay discussion if counsel is not 
retained. See OML 2012-107. Further, even though the meeting at issue was delayed by one 
2 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
day, no additional notice was required as Mr. Madruga was notified of his rights and of the new 
meeting date at least 48 hours in advance. We therefore find that the notice provided to Mr. 
Madruga satisfied the Board's obligations under the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, we find 
that the Board did not violate Mr. Madruga's right to have the discussion take place in open 
session. It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to express a preference 
for a discussion to take place in executive session, provided that the body ultimately honors the 
subject's preferences. Based on our review of the recording, we find that Mr. Madruga's consent 
to the executive session discussion was not coerced. We therefore find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.3 
The complaint also alleges that it was improper for the Board to have a police officer 
present during the meeting at issue. We note that the Open Meeting Law does not prohibit the 
presence of law enforcement, either during an open session or an executive session. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(f); OML 2012-53. As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in this respect. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Mr. James S. Madruga, Jr. 
Acushnet Housing Authority Board of Directors 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes of the January 22 open session meeting are 
insufficiently detailed. Our review of the audio recording revealed that the discussion of whether to hold the 
discussion of the complaints against Mr. Madruga in executive session lasted approximately 45 minutes, yet the 
summary consists of only one sentence. A public body is required to create meeting minutes with sufficient detail 
and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2014-77; OML 2013-14; OML 2013-8; OML 2012-29. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
