===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2018 
OML 2018-13 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Haynes, on behalf of the Truro Part-
Time Resident Taxpayers' Association, on November 28, alleging that the Truro Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 20, and you responded 
to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 18.2 In her complaint, Ms. 
Haynes alleges that, during its August 22 meeting, the Board discussed and took action on a 
topic that was not sufficiently detailed on the meeting notice, which the Board may have 
discussed previously outside of a meeting. Ms. Haynes further alleges that its decision was 
"tainted" by a prior improper vote of the Board of Assessors.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notices and minutes for the Board's April 18; August 9; and August 22 
meetings. Finally, we reviewed a December 21 email from the Board's counsel relaying 
information our office had requested from the Board Chair Paul Wisotzky. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 Our office granted the Board an extension of time to respond until October 20. 
3 Ms. Haynes cites further allegations against the Board of Assessors, which is not the subject of this complaint. 
Accordingly, we limit our review to the Board of Selectmen's actions and decline to review any allegations 
against the Board of Assessors. Additionally, we decline to review any allegations that the Board failed to 
comply with statutes other than the Open Meeting Law that require hearings. See OML Declination 12-22-15 
(Avon Zoning Board of Appeals). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Beginning in the summer of 2016, the Town had 
discussed the possibility of adopting a residential tax exemption. The Board decided to raise 
the issue during its annual tax classification hearing on August 22, 2017. Leading up to the 
annual hearing, the Board held several meetings during which it discussed the issue. First, the 
Board held a joint meeting with the Board of Assessors on April 18.4 The topic was listed on 
the meeting notice as "Review/Discussion of Residential Exemption," Posted with the notice 
was a memorandum from the Town's assessor to the Board explaining the residential tax 
exemption, along with financial analysis to assist the Board in its discussion at the meeting. 
During the meeting, the Board directed its staff to prepare the materials and financial analysis 
for the residential tax exemption for the annual tax classification hearing, which would be 
scheduled for August or September.5 
Then, the Board held a meeting on August 9 that was dedicated to allowing non-
resident property owners to discuss their concerns, including the residential tax exemption, 
which was listed on the notice as, "Residential Property Tax Exemption." Approximately 150 
people attended this meeting, some of whom spoke on the issue. At the conclusion of this 
meeting, the Board announced that the annual tax classification hearing would be held on 
August 22. On August 14, the Board of Assessors held a meeting during which it voted on 
recommendations to submit to the Board regarding the tax classifications. Because this topic 
was not listed on its meeting notice, an Open Meeting Law complaint was filed with the 
Board of Assessors. As a result, the Board of Assessors took remedial action on August 25 
by holding a new vote on the topic. 
On August 18, the Board posted notice of a meeting scheduled for August 22. Under 
the heading, "Public Hearing," the Board listed the following topic: "Public Hearing and 
Vote on Fiscal Year 2018 Tax Classification Hearing and Review and Approval of signatory 
authority to the Principal Assessor for the Classification Tax Allocation (LA-5)." Along with 
the notice, the Board posted a packet of materials for the Board to review during the meeting, 
which included several documents, such as a memorandum to the Board from the Town 
Assessor that outlined the various tax classifications, including the residential tax exemption. 
The Board also published legal notice of the hearing notifying the public that it intended to 
determine "the percentages of the local tax levy to be borne in Fiscal Year 2018 by each class 
of property" including residential. This notice also encouraged the public to submit written 
comments to the Board or in person at the hearing. Approximately 150 people attended the 
August 22 hearing, some of whom voiced their opinions about the residential tax exemption. 
At the hearing's conclusion, the Board voted on each tax classification, including a vote to 
approve the residential tax exemption. 
According to the Board chair, a quorum of the Board did not otherwise discuss the 
issue outside of a meeting. Rather, the Board's prior meetings on the issue, along with 
4 We note that the issue was raised during the Board's March 8 meeting during a larger discussion about the 
Fiscal Year 2018 budget. 
5 This hearing was held pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 56. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
documentation provided by the Town assessor, assisted the Board in making its decision to 
adopt the residential tax exemption. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." Id The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.6 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to specify on its August 22 meeting notice 
that it would discuss the residential tax exemption. During its August 22 meeting, the Board 
held its annual tax classification hearing during which it voted on tax classifications for Fiscal 
Year 2018, which included the adoption of a residential tax exemption. Our office has issued 
determinations concluding that where a public body anticipates discussing specific Town 
Meeting warrant articles or budgetary items, it must specifically list them in its meeting 
notice. See OML 2013-8; OML 2011-7. However, where a public body is reviewing all 
articles for a Town Meeting wan-ant or the entire budget, it is not required to identify all 
warrant articles or all budgetary items on its meeting notice. See OML 2017-185; OML 
2012-83. The same is true for tax classification hearings. Because the Board planned to 
review all of the tax classifications for Fiscal Year 2018 during the hearing, rather than any 
specific tax classification, we find that the topic sufficiently informed the public that the 
Board would be reviewing and taking action on all of the tax classifications. See OML 2014-
75; 2013-8; OML 2012-83. Additionally, we note that the Board provided the public with 
additional context about the hearing by posting documents with the meeting notice regarding 
the tax classifications. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board may have deliberated about the residential 
tax exemption outside of a meeting. We credit the Board chair and find no evidence that such 
deliberations took place outside of a noticed meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kimberly Bielan, Esq. 
Truro Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 