===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
1 
 
October 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 170 
 
 
Erin Gibbons, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
By email only: Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org  
        
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Gibbons: 
This letter addresses three complaints filed by George Harris alleging that the Wayland 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The first complaint was filed with the Committee on April 14, 2023; former Committee Chair 
Chris Ryan
1 responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 27; and the complaint 
was filed with our office for further review on June 12.2  The second complaint was filed with 
the Committee on May 8; you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 8, 
pursuant to an extension of time granted by our office; and the complaint was filed with our 
office for further review on June 13.  The first two complaints collectively allege that the 
Committee failed to timely approve minutes for executive sessions held on eight dates between 
December 2021 and February 2023.  The third complaint was filed with the Committee on July 
18; you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letters dated August 2 and August 7; and the 
complaint was filed with our office for further review on September 7.  The third complaint 
alleges that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes of a meeting held on June 5.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged but has since approved all of the meeting minutes at issue.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, 
whether for open or executive session, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
 
1 Mr. Ryan is no longer a member of the Committee. 
2 All dates refer to the year 2023 unless otherwise indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 
2018-48.3  Approval of executive session minutes is a separate and unrelated obligation from the 
requirement that executive session minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether they 
should be released to the public.  See OML 2019-115.  This initial approval of executive session 
minutes is to approve the minutes as an accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive 
session and does not mean that the minutes are approved for release to the public. 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies.  Id.  Public bodies have an 
obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if 
continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and “such determination shall be announced at 
the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be included in the minutes of that 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our 
office has found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not govern the method for approving meeting minutes and 
public bodies may choose the method for approval.  See OML 2020-81; OML 2019-107; OML 
2019-9.  Acceptable methods include, but are not limited to, approval by the public 
body chair alone or by another designated individual, approval by majority vote of the public 
body, approval by consent of the body (approved unless there is an objection), or approval by a 
parent public body on behalf of a subcommittee.  See OML 2023-42; OML 2019-107; OML 
2019-25; OML 2017-34.  The method of approval of minutes that a public body chooses does 
not impact the standard for timely approval of minutes, which remains “within the next three 
public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later.”  940 CMR 29.11.  There is no 
requirement that minutes of an executive session be approved only in a subsequent executive 
session, and when calculating timely approval of minutes, the Open Meeting Law regulations 
refer to timely approval as being within the next three “public body meetings,” not within the 
next three meetings at which a public body otherwise chooses to enter executive session.  940 
CMR 29.11(2); see also OML 2021-169; OML 2020-135.  Therefore, the fact that a public body 
has not scheduled a subsequent executive session does not impact the “timely approval” 
calculation.  Similarly, the Open Meeting Law and regulations make no exception for special 
meetings, joint meetings, or meetings not normally scheduled, for purposes of calculating 
timely approval of minutes.  See OML 2022-32; OML 2021-177; OML 2019-11. 
 
The Committee acknowledges that it failed to timely approve minutes of the executive 
sessions, as alleged in the first and second complaints.  The Committee explains that it was 
handling an unusually high volume of business during the time period in question and held 
meetings far more frequently than usual, and that approval of the executive session minutes was 
further delayed because a meeting when the minutes were initially scheduled for review went 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
extraordinary late and the Committee did not reach review of minutes.  We reiterate that minutes 
of executive sessions must be created and approved in a timely manner, even if they will not be 
reviewed for possible release to the public until a later time; initial approval of executive session 
meeting minutes need not entail a time-consuming review of whether and which portions of 
minutes are suitable for public release.  The Committee also acknowledges that it failed to timely 
approve the minutes of the June 5 meeting.  The Committee explains that due to an oversight 
regarding the counting of a special meeting, approval of the June 5 meeting minutes was not 
included on the meeting notice for its June 21 meeting, which was its third meeting thereafter; 
therefore, the Committee deferred approval to its next scheduled meeting.  All of the minutes 
have since been approved.   
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Committee’s violation was, as the complainant 
urges, intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  The complainant points to a prior determination from our office, 
OML 2018-152, issued on December 3, 2018, about approval of minutes from open session 
meetings held in March and April of 2018, in which we found that the Committee failed to 
timely approve minutes and cautioned that “similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.”  In response, the Committee asserts that since that time it 
has held over 200 meetings, and that its system for creating and approving meeting minutes—
which includes a dedicated staff member to prepare minutes along with Committee members 
filling in as needed—works well and enables timely creation and approval of minutes the vast 
majority of the time.  Here, we find that the Committee may have misunderstood its obligations 
regarding approval of executive session minutes.  Furthermore, where approximately five years 
have passed since the prior warning, we decline to find the violation intentional in this instance. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law and may result in the imposition of a civil 
penalty of up to $1,000 per violation. 
  
===PAGE 4===
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.   
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: George H. Harris, Esq. – By email only:  
Wayland School Committee – By email only: school_committee@waylandps.org   
Wayland Town Clerk – By email only: townclerk@wayland.ma.us 
 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
