===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
November 7, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 194 
 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Everett 
 
By email only: Colleen.Mejia@ci.everett.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joan Beckta on April 4, 2023, alleging that the 
Everett Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around November 9, 2022; the Board 
did not respond to the complaint and did not notify our office of the complaint.1  The complaint 
alleges that the Board did not properly respond to requests for minutes of meetings held on 
October 28, 2019, and December 9, 2019; in particular, the complaint alleges that the Board 
never created minutes for the October 28 meeting and provided only the odd-numbered pages of 
minutes of the December 2 meeting.
2   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely create and approve minutes of the October 28 meeting.  In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint and additional correspondence with the complainant.  In 
addition, we corresponded by email with counsel for the Board, and reviewed meeting notices 
 
1 We remind the Board that within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body 
must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant 
and to the Attorney General a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  Upon 
the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the 
complaint to the members of the public body,” and “the public body shall review the complaint’s allegations.”  940 
CMR 29.05(3), (5).  Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to 
delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); see also 
OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.   
2 All dates refer to 2019, except where indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
for all meetings held between October 2019 and June 2020 as well as minutes for meetings held 
on December 9, 2019, and January 13, 2020.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.”  See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48.
3  Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; 
OML 2017-133.  
 
Aft
er review, we find that the Board failed to create and approve minutes for the October 
28 meeting.  The Board, through its attorney, explained that the Board’s clerk was absent from 
that meeting so another employee took the minutes, and the Board was trying to determine when 
the minutes were approved.  However, the Board never located the minutes to provide to the 
complainant despite multiple requests in October and November 2022, nor to our office 
following requests in 2023.  Furthermore, although the minutes for the October 28 meeting were 
listed for approval on the notice for the Board’s January 13, 2020, meeting, the minutes for that 
meeting reflect that the October 28 meeting minutes were not approved because they were not 
ready.  Approval of the October 28 meeting minutes never appeared on any other meeting notice 
that we or the Board could identify, and the Board has been unable to show that the minutes were 
approved subsequently.  Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
timely—or ever—create and approve minutes for the October 28 meeting.  
 
We do not, however, find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
res
pond to the complainant’s requests for minutes.  A person may request meeting minutes 
pursuant to the Open Meeting Law or the Public Records Law, and the requirements for 
responding differ.  A request for minutes that is directed to a public body will fall within the 
Open Meeting Law. A request for minutes that is directed to a clerk or other employee as 
Records Access Officer will generally fall under the Public Records Law.  See OML 2018-32; 
OML 2019-68.  Here, the complainant acknowledges that she submitted her two requests for 
meeting minutes to staff in the City’s Planning Office as public records requests.  Therefore, we 
find that any failure to adequately respond implicates compliance with the Public Records Law, 
not the Open Meeting Law, and we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in 
this regard.  We note that the Board has since located a complete copy of the minutes of the 
December 2 meeting, and the Board should promptly provide that copy to the complainant if it 
has not already done so. 
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely create and approve minutes for its October 28, 2019, meeting.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  In addition, we order the Board, within 30 days of 
the date of this letter, to create and approve minutes for the October 28, 2019, meeting.  
Although we acknowledge the potential challenge in recreating minutes for a meeting that 
occurred years prior, the Board nonetheless must create these minutes to the best of its ability, 
using any means available to it, including notes and the recollections of current or former Board 
members and staff.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joan Beckta (by e-mail:
 ) 
Everet
t Planning Board, via Matt Lattanzi, Esq. (via e-mail: 
Matt.Lattanzi@ci.everett.ma.us) 
Everett City Clerk (via e-mail: sergio.cornelio@ci.everett.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
