===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTO RNEY GENERAL 
January 25, 2011 
OML 2011 — 5 
Michael Yacino 
Vice Chairman 
Douglas Conservation Commission 
29 Depot St. 
Douglas, MA 01516 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Yacino, 
This office is in receipt of a complaint filed by Mr. Eben Chesebrough on or about 
November 18, 2010. The complaint alleges that the Douglas Conservation Commission (the 
"Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39 § 23B (now repealed) by convening 
an executive session on May 4, 2010 without providing notice to three individuals who were the 
subject of that executive session. The complaint further alleges that the Commission entered into 
executive session for an improper purpose. This complaint was filed with the Conservation 
Commission on August 5, 2010. 
The Attorney General assumed responsibility for the enforcement of the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25 on July 1, 2010. While we will generally not investigate complaints 
alleging a violation that occurred prior to July 1, 2010, this complaint was referred to our office 
by the Worcester District Attorney after Mr. Chesebrough first filed his complaint with that 
office on June 17, 2010. Accordingly, we review this complaint under the Open Meeting Law as 
it existed prior to July 1, 2010. 
We reviewed the August 5, 2010 and November 18, 2010 complaints; the Commission's 
response; and the open and executive session minutes of May 4, 2010. We also conducted a 
brief phone interview with you, the Commission's Vice-Chairman, on January 11, 2011. 
Based on our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session for a reason other than one of the nine reasons enumerated in G.L. 
===PAGE 2===
c. 39, §23B. 
The complaint alleges that on May 4, 2010, the Commission entered "Executive Session 
'to discuss staff " The complaint further alleges that "the staff were not given any 48 hour 
notification prior to Executive Session, including their rights under the law, nor was any waiver 
granted or contemplated." From our January 11, 2011 phone conversation with you, we 
understand that on May 3, 2010, the Conservation Commission presented a Stormwater Bylaw at 
the Annual Town Meeting. The Commission had drafted a fact sheet to assist the Town Meeting 
members in understanding the Bylaw. There was a contentious discussion at the meeting, and 
some members of the Commission were concerned that the Commission staff may not have 
distributed the fact sheet appropriately. 
According to the minutes of the May 4, 2010 meeting, the Commission held an open 
meeting at 7 p.m., and then entered executive session at 8:25 p.m. The executive session lasted 
until 8:40 p.m. In entering the executive session, the minutes state that, "a Motion was made by 
Yacino to go into Executive Session to discuss staff and to ask that [Commission staff members 
present at the meeting] be dismissed, seconded by Brown." (emphasis in original). The entire 
content of the discussion is reflected in the minutes as: "Discussion on how the Stormwater 
Bylaw was presented at the Annual Town Meeting on 5/3/10." The Commission conducted roll 
call votes in both entering and concluding the executive session. We understand from our phone 
conversation that during the executive session, the Commission briefly discussed the conduct of 
the Commission staff at the May 3rd  Town Meeting and then discussed strategy for moving 
forward with the Stormwater Bylaw. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Meetings of a governmental body must be held in open 
session, unless one of nine purposes for executive session applies. See G.L. c. 39 § 23B. The 
Open Meeting Law requires a Board to publicly state the purpose for entering executive session 
prior to convening in an executive session. Id. 
On May 4, 2010, the Commission entered into executive session without citing one of the 
nine purposes available to it under G.L. c. 39 § 23B. This, by itself, is a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. However, the Commission's actions were compounded by the discussion it 
engaged in after it entered executive session. According to the interview and the minutes we 
reviewed, the discussion during executive session focused on the professional competence of the 
staff members and their job performance and, specifically, their job performance in the context 
of their actions the previous night. Based on our interview, we understand that the Commission 
was concerned about the events that transpired on May 3, 2010. Understandably, the members 
wanted to determine an appropriate course of action to address their concerns. However, while a 
governmental body may choose to enter executive session to discuss the character and reputation 
of a public employee, discussions about professional competence during executive sessions are 
explicitly prohibited by the Open Meeting Law. See G. L. c. 39 § 23B ("executive sessions may 
be held only for the following purposes: (1) To discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health rather than the professional competence of an individual...") 
(emphasis added). While we do not dispute that such conversations may be awkward, the Open 
Meeting Law is clear that any discussion about professional competence must take place during a 
properly posted open session. 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerel 
In addition, the further discussion regarding strategy for proceeding with the Stormwater 
Bylaw was not appropriate for executive session. The Open Meeting Law requires "a precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session...because that is the only notification 
given to the public that the [governmental body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper." District 
Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland,  455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009). 
By failing to state the purpose for which the body entered executive session and by conducting 
discussions more appropriately conducted during open session, the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
• We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive 
session business which was not appropriate for a closed session. Because the violations occurred 
before the Attorney General assumed enforcement of the Open Meeting Law on July 1, 2010, we 
are limited in our ability to order any remedial action. However, we encourage the Commission 
to be attentive to the requirements of the revised Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25 and 
to ensure future compliance. Our fmdings would be the same had we applied G.L. c. 30A, §§18- 
25. In addition, the current Open Meeting Law requires that the meeting minutes shall include, 
"a summary of the discussions on each subject." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The executive session 
minutes from May 4, 2010 would not be sufficient to meet this requirement. 
Thank you for your cooperation with this investigation, and if you have any questions 
regarding the complaint, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
A ssaitshtanant  SActtlarornsiecy  
General 
Division of Open Government 
617-963-2045 
cc: Eben Chesebrough 