===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 7, 2017 
OML 2017-167 
Oak Bluffs Board of Selectmen 
c/o Robert Whritenour, Jr. 
Oak Bluffs Town Administrator 
PO Box 1327 
Oak Bluffs, MA 02557 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Whritenour: 
This office received a complaint from Lynne Fraker on September 27, alleging that the 
Oak Bluffs Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 21, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 25.2 In her 
complaint, Ms. Fraker alleges that, during its August 8 meeting, the Board prohibited an 
individual from recording the open session of the meeting; failed to convene in open session 
prior to an executive session; and extended the executive session beyond the time stated in the 
notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notices and open session minutes from the Board's August 8 and September 12 
meetings. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on October 19. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on August 8, in part, to 
convene in executive session. The notice listed the following topic headings (below which 
certain topics were specified): 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Board that, unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney 
General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
4:00 P.M. Call meeting to order 
Executive session 
Public Announcements 
Old/New Business 
5:00 P.M. Public Hearing 
5:30 P.M. Public Forum for Summer Taxpayers 
5:45 P.M. Department Head, Boards and Committee Interaction 
Adjourn 
The Town records all Board meetings for broadcast on cable access television. Prior 
to opening the meeting, the Board chair turned to the Town videographer and explained that 
the Board would be convening in executive session during the meeting, which would not be 
recorded. The videographer left the meeting before the Board convened in open session. The 
Board opened the meeting in open session and voted by roll call "to enter into Executive 
Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining and litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining position and the chair 
so declares. Returning to open session."3 The Board then spent an hour and a half in 
executive session prior to returning to open session for the remainder of the Board's agenda. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of 
ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair 
states the purpose for the executive session and announces whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, 
any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public 
body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to the reasonable 
requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment so as not to 
interfere with the conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting the chair shall 
inform other attendees of any such recordings." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The requirement that 
the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording made by members of the 
public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, 
such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes. See OML 2012-24.4 
3 We remind the Board to identify the name of the bargaining unit, both on the notice and in the open session 
announcement, unless disclosure would defeat the confidential purpose for the executive session. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(b)(3); OML 2017-54; OML 2015-14. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Board refused to allow the Town videographer to 
record the meeting. The Board contends that the chair's statement to the videographer—that 
it would convene an executive session—was meant to be helpful, and was not intended as a 
request to leave before the meeting began. We conclude that the Board did not restrict the 
videographer's right to record the open session portion of the meeting, but rather that the 
videographer misunderstood the chair and left the meeting after learning that the Board would 
be proceeding to executive session. Accordingly, we decline to find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
The complaint further alleges that the Board failed to convene in open session prior to 
its executive session and failed to indicate to the public that its executive session would 
extend beyond the time stated on the notice because the public hearing scheduled for 5:00 
P.M. was canceled. We find that the Board indeed convened in open session prior to its 
executive session but failed to announce that the public hearing was canceled. While a public 
body may not begin a meeting earlier than the posted start time, see OML 2014-35, the law 
does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a topic 
listed on a meeting notice or agenda. See OML 2012-23. Due to the canceled public hearing, 
the Board's executive session lasted longer than anticipated on the notice. We recognize that 
some members of the public who arrived at 5:00 P.M. may have waited for the Board to 
return to open session from its executive session, however nothing in the law restricts a public 
body from declining to discuss a topic and/or engaging in a lengthier discussion than stated on 
the notice. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc; Lynne Fraker 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 