===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 19,2016 
OML 2016-53 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Jay Givan, dated February 26, 2016, alleging that 
the West Boylston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 23, 2015, 
and, after an extension of time was granted, the Board responded by letter dated January 25, 
2016.1 In his complaint, Mr. Givan alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a topic during a meeting that was not listed on the meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During a meeting on November 4, 2015, the Board decided 
to form a search committee to evaluate candidates to fill a town administrator position. 
Individuals who wished to be considered for appointment to this committee were directed to 
apply by November 13, 2015. On November 16, 2015—three days after the application period 
closed—an additional person applied to serve on the search committee. The Board scheduled a 
meeting for November 18, 2015, and posted notice. The meeting notice stated that the Board 
would discuss the search committee—"TOWN ADMIN SEARCH CMTE. SELECTION"—but 
1 We note that the original complaint was not made on the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law complaint form. 
See 940 CMR 29.05(1). As such, the Board was not required to respond to it. Since the Board treated this as a 
properly-filed complaint and responded accordingly, we exercise our discretion to review the underlying allegation, 
2 The complaint also contains implied allegations that the Board violated state conflict of interest laws. These 
allegations do not concern the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review them. See OML 2015-10. 
We refer the complainant to the State Ethics Commission for further information. 
O 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
it did not specify the names of the individuals who had applied. The Board held the November 
18, 2015 meeting as planned, during which the late applicant was selected to serve on the search 
committee. 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice of all meetings. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id, 
Topics must be listed with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the notice and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the meeting notice should have identified all individuals 
who had applied to serve on the search committee, particularly the name of the late applicant. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require this. Rather, the law requires public bodies to notify 
the public of the anticipated nature of its discussions. Here, the Board provided sufficient 
information for a reasonable member of the public to understand that the Board would be making 
its selection from among the applicants for the search committee. We therefore conclude that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not respond to the original 
complaint within the required time frame. Within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, 
unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, the public body shall review the 
complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General 
and the complainant a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the Board sought and obtained an extension of time 
from our office until January 22, 2016. Despite this extension, the Board did not respond until 
January 25, 2016. We take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the 
Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law, We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerel 
Assistant Attomey General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jay Givan 
2 
===PAGE 3===
West Boylston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 