===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 2, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 62 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Allison Valton, Esq.  
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
 
allison@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Valton: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laurent McDonald on November 10, 2025, 
alleging that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 24 and you 
responded on its behalf by letter dated October 15.  In his complaint, Mr. McDonald alleges that 
the notice of a meeting the Board held on September 23 was insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice 
and minutes of the September 23 meeting.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the September 23 
meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On or about September 18, the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on September 23.
3  Under the heading “New Business,” the notice listed the 
topic “Code of Conduct.”  The meeting went forward as scheduled.  Approximately 41 minutes 
into the meeting, the Board reached the “Code of Conduct” topic.  Town Administrator Jennifer 
Wolowicz introduced the topic by stating “I added this to your agenda after the last meeting.”  
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates refer to 2025, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://m-pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2.  
3 The notice is stamped received by the Clerk’s Office on September 18 but does not state when it was posted. The 
Board is reminded that “[t]he date and time that a meeting notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded” on or 
with the notice.  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
She referenced an incident that transpired outside the meeting location after the Board’s previous 
meeting, which was held on September 9.  TA Wolowicz stated that at the conclusion of the 
September 9 meeting, she stayed behind to talk to a resident.  She was alerted to a disturbance 
outside.  She exited the building and witnessed a verbal altercation on the sidewalk.  
Approximately a dozen people, including members of the public and appointed and elected 
officials, were engaged in or watching the altercation.  TA Wolowicz attempted to defuse the 
situation but was unsuccessful and called 911.  As she described this incident at the September 
23 meeting, she stated that “this isn’t to remind people of the code of conduct” as that is not the 
Town’s role.  However, she asked for self-reflection and that everyone be respectful of their 
neighbors.  She questioned whether members of boards and committees who were “getting into 
it” could serve as role models. 
 
Although the substance of the verbal altercation was not detailed during the September 
23 meeting, it appeared to concern, at least in part, treatment of Town staff.  As TA Wolowicz 
concluded her remarks, she explained that the Town must provide employees an environment 
that is free of harassment.  A Board member added that employees need a safe and secure 
workplace.  Karen Nothe-Valley, a member of the School Committee who was seated in the 
audience, asked to speak.  She went up to the microphone to correct a perceived 
misrepresentation by TA Wolowicz.  Ms. Nothe-Valley indicated that there were no elected 
officials involved in the “melee.”  When a voice off camera asked for names, TA Wolowicz 
responded: “Karen was on the sidewalk.  Larry was on the sidewalk.  Keith was on the sidewalk.  
The three of you stood there and let me handle it.”  Ms. Nothe-Valley accused TA Wolowicz of 
“throwing us under the bus.”  Shortly after Ms. Nothe-Valley left the microphone, the discussion 
ended and the Board took a recess.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[e]xcept in an 
emergency ... a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice 
must be “printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.”  Id. 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2024-109; OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-199; OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95.     
 
At its September 23 meeting, the Board discussed not a code of conduct but the conduct 
of public body members in response to the September 9 altercation.  There was no mention 
during the September 23 discussion of a particular code or town policy to which public body 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members failed to adhere on September 9.  Rather, the Town Administrator and at least one 
Board member expressed disappointment that the public body members failed to act as role 
models on September 9 and instead left it to TA Wolowicz to restore order.  Under these facts, 
the topic “Code of Conduct,” did not sufficiently describe the anticipated discussion.  In its 
response, the Board maintains that a reasonable member of the public would understand that the 
topic “Code of Conduct” concerned the altercation of September 9 because the altercation 
required police intervention and was widely shared on social media.  We disagree.  The notice of 
a meeting must stand on its own and cannot, in general, be built on assumptions about how 
informed the public is on matters of local interest.  The threshold of specificity is not lowered as 
a topic rises to the top of residents’ social media feeds.  The topic “Code of Conduct” provides 
no notice that the Board would discuss a specific incident at its September 23 meeting.  In 
posting insufficient notice, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
To the extent that the complainant alleges that the Board should have notified him that it 
planned to discuss him at the meeting, we decline to review that allegation.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require specific notice to an individual unless a public body plans to convene in 
executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather 
than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”); OML 2017-12; OML 2016-70.  Because the discussion 
was held in open session, and not in executive session under Purpose 1, the Board was not 
required to give individual notice to the complainant or to any of the other individuals mentioned 
by name during the meeting.
4  The complaint also alleges that the Board violated Town policy 
and due process.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law only; the Open Meeting Law does not concern compliance with municipal 
policies or due process.  Even if true, these remaining allegations would not constitute violations 
of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to review them. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed a topic at its September 23 meeting that was not listed with sufficient 
specificity on the notice for that meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Law.  940 CMR 29.02. 
 
  
 
4 Although not required, our office encourages public bodies to provide notice to any individual who may be the 
subject of an open session discussion. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Laurent McDonald (via email: ) 
 Jenni fer L. Wolowicz, Town Administrator (via email: jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Mary F. Watson, Monson Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
