===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
My 12,2018 
OML 2018-104 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20 alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 14; and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 27. The complaint alleges that the Board 
discussed the reorganization of the Board, a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice, 
during its September 14 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices of, 
and open session minutes from, the Board's August 29 and September 14 meetings. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At the time the complaint was filed, Judith Margulies was 
chair of the Board. The Board held a meeting on August 29. During that three hour and forty-
five-minute meeting, the Board discussed only six of the eighteen noticed topics. Several times 
during the meeting, tensions rose, dialogue became heated, and a Board member suggested that 
Ms. Margulies was unfit to be chair. Towards the end of the meeting, a motion to remove Ms. 
Margulies as chair was made but failed. 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On September 11 at 3:39 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Thursday, September 14 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, including reviewing three 
Open Meeting Law complaints filed against the Board, approval of six sets of meeting minutes, 
and "consideration of items related to Board of Health members' working relationship: proposed 
facilitation, character, and policies and procedures." 
The September 14 meeting was held as planned. Over the next two hours and forty-five 
minutes, the Board discussed three sets of meeting minutes - June 27, June 29, and July 11. 
During the Board's review of the June 27 minutes, tensions rose, dialogue became heated, and a 
Board member moved to replace Ms. Margulies as chair. The motion was approved by a 
majority of the members and Board member Mary Mortensen was appointed chair. Ultimately, 
the Board discovered that it had previously approved the June 27 minutes at its July 11 meeting. 
The Board then approved the minutes from its July 11 meeting, and tabled approval of minutes 
from its June 29 meeting, as well as those minutes from meetings held between August 1 and 
September 5. The Board also tabled discussion of the three noticed Open Meeting Law 
complaints. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics 
shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-3 5.2 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed and voted on a topic not listed on the 
September 14 notice, specifically, reorganization of the Board. Discussions regarding the 
unfitness and subsequent removal of the chair arose during the Board's prolonged review of one 
set of meeting minutes and were the result of frustration on the part of certain board members. A 
public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Even though certain Board members voiced their displeasure with Chair Margulies at a previous 
meeting, we find the discussion at the September 14 meeting to be unexpected and a result of the 
dissatisfaction with the progression of the meeting. As such, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing this topic. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a topic not listed on the notice. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeet ing. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 