===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 20, 2017 
OML 2017-43 
Fairhaven Board of Selectmen 
c/o Charles K. Murphy, Chairman 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Murphy: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Fliggins on December 22 alleging that the 
Fairhaven Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 7 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 22. The complaint alleges that the 
Board's anticipated executive session topics listed on the November 7 meeting notice lacked 
sufficient detail and that the notice was posted on a bulletin board at Town Hall that was not 
accessible to people with disabilities. In addition, the complaint alleges that the November 7 
open session minutes do not contain a list of documents used at the meeting and do not include 
the declaration that holding a meeting in open session would be detrimental to the Board's 
bargaining or litigating position. 
On January 11, 2017, we issued determination OML 2017-7 finding that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting its meeting notices on a bulletin board that was not 
accessible to people with disabilities.2 Following our review here, we find that the Board once 
again violated the Open Meeting Law by posting its meeting notice in a location that was not 
accessible to everyone, a violation which the Board has now corrected. However, we do not 
find an intentional violation because the meeting notice at issue here was posted several months 
prior to the Board receiving our January determination. Moreover, while we reviewed the 
complaint at issue in OML 2017-7, the Board was in the process of building an accessible 
bulletin board. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
We also find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by not listing in its meeting 
minutes the documents used during the meeting. Finally, we find that the Board's November 7 
meeting notice provided insufficient detail with respect to certain executive session topics. We 
find no violation with respect to the remaining allegation. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open and 
executive session minutes from the Board's November 7 meeting. Finally, we spoke by 
telephone with Anne O'Brien, the Board's Administrative Assistant, on March 13, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 3, the Board posted notice for a meeting to 
be held on Monday, November 7 at 6:30 P.M. The notice was posted on the Town website and 
on a bulletin board at the main entrance at Town Hall. In order to access the bulletin board, the 
public must navigate five or six steps. The Board acknowledged in response to the complaint 
that the Town had not adopted the website as an alternative posting method and that the bulletin 
board was not accessible to people with disabilities. However, the Board further stated that it 
had hired a contractor to build a bulletin board at the base of the handicapped access ramp to 
Town Hall. As of January 12, 2017, the Town installed a new bulletin board in an accessible 
location at Town Hall. Moreover, on January 25, 2017, the Board adopted its municipal website, 
www.Fairhaven-MA.gov, as its alternative posting method. 
The Board's November 7 meeting notice listed four executive sessions topics below the 
heading, "Executive Session- Pursuant to MGL Ch. 30A § 21," as follows: 
1. Lee Miguel v. Town of Fairhaven 
2. Litigation - bankruptcy filings 
3. Collective Bargaining: Clerical, Police, Dispatchers, Fire 
4. Ambulance waiver request 
The November 7 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board verbally 
identified and discussed documents related to "FY17 Local Cultural Council Funding," 
"Auditorium Use" and "Barge Donation." Prior to convening in executive session, the Board 
approved a motion to enter into executive session "pursuant to MGL ch. 30a section 21, for: 
Litigation: Lee Miguel v. Town of Fairhaven, Litigation: bankruptcy filings. Ambulance waiver 
request, and Collective Bargaining (clerical, police, dispatchers, fire)."3 The Board then approved 
a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. Because the Board has not publicly 
released the minutes of these executive sessions, we do not recount their content in detail here. 
However, we note that during the executive session, the Board received a status report on the 
ongoing litigation against the Town by Lee Miguel and an update regarding the bankruptcy of 
specific taxpayers and their failure to comply with a tax agreement. The Board also discussed 
wage proposals for the police and fire union and discussed the forgiveness of an ambulance fee. 
3 We remind the Board that it must also announce whether it will reconvene in open session following the executive 
session. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(b)(4). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
I. The Town's Current Notice Posting Location Is Now Accessible to Everyone. 
The complaint alleges that the Town's notice posting location is not accessible to persons 
with mobility impairment. The Open Meeting Law requires that the municipal clerk post notice 
of meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such notice is not 
conspicuously visible to the public during hours when the clerk's office is closed, such notice 
shall also be made available through one of the alternative methods approved by the Attorney 
General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). A description of such alternative method, sufficient to 
allow members of the public to obtain notice through such method, shall be posted in a mamier 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and handicapped 
accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. 940 CMR 
29.03(1). The Attorney General has determined that posting meeting notices to a municipal 
website provides effective notice to the public. 940 CMR 29.03(2). Adoption of an alternative 
posting location requires notice to this office. 940 CMR. 29.03(l)(c). 
At the time the complaint was made, the Board had not adopted its municipal website as 
an alternative posting location and the bulletin board at the entrance to Town Hall was placed at 
the top of several stairs. As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
because the bulletin board required the public to navigate five or six steps, which restricted 
independent access to the notice posting location. See OML 2014-65; OML 2013-109. The 
Board was previously advised that the bulletin board was not accessible to everyone. See OML 
2017-7. However, we do not find an intentional violation as the Board was not aware of that 
decision at the time it posted notice for its November 7 meeting. The Board has since 
constructed a new bulletin board, which was installed in an accessible location at Town Hall as 
of January 12, 2017. In addition, as of January 25, 2017, the Town adopted its municipal 
website as the alternate posting location. We commend the Town for correcting the violation. 
II. Minutes Must Contain a List of All Documents and Exhibits Used at the Meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that the November 7 meeting minutes "are deficient in that 
they do not contain a list of all of the documents and other exhibits used by" the Board. The 
Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including a list of all documents and exhibits used by the public body during the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a 
document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is 
physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public 
body during an open meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. Here, documents were physically present, verbally identified, 
and their contents were discussed during the "FY 17 Local Cultural Council Funding," 
"Auditorium Use" and "Barge Donation" portions of the meeting. Despite this, the minutes of 
this meeting do not list any documents used and therefore we find the Board to be in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. The documents and other exhibits, however, do not need to be attached 
to or physically stored with the minutes. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
III. The Board's November 7 Meeting Notice Failed to List Executive Session Topics 
with Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One purpose for executive session permits a public body "to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o 
comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid 
requirements." G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body entering executive session 
under Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations 
confidential, unless doing so would defeat the lawful purpose for secrecy. See District Attorney 
for the N. Dist.. 455 Mass. at 569. 
The complaint alleges that the topics concerning litigation lacked sufficient detail in that 
they did not identify the court or docket number for the litigation and that the topic "Ambulance 
waiver request" should have included the statutory citation for the purpose upon which the Board 
relied for convening in executive session. We find that the executive session topic of "Lee 
Miguel v. Town of Fairhaven" listed on the Board's meeting notice was sufficient where it 
described the nature of the discussion and the specific topic to be discussed. Although including 
a docket number or court location may oftentimes be useful to the public, such detail is not 
necessary. 
With respect to the topics "Litigation - bankruptcy filings" and "Ambulance waiver 
request," we find that more detail was required as these topics were not an accurate description 
of the discussions that took place during the executive session. Specifically, the minutes refiect 
that the Board was updated on the bankruptcy filing of specific taxpayers and how to proceed 
with the failure of the taxpayers to comply with a tax payment agreement. While not raised in 
the complaint, we note that this topic was not appropriate for discussion in executive session 
under Purpose 3. This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; 
the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05. Although the 
taxpayers had threatened litigation in the past after action by the Board, there was no pending or 
threatened litigation at that time. The Board therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding this portion of the discussion in executive session. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
With respect to the topic "Ambulance waiver request," the notice did not clearly indicate 
which executive session pmpose the Board intended to rely on in order to discuss such waiver. 
See OML 2015-126. It appears that the Board entered executive session to discuss a waiver of 
an ambulance fee under Purpose 7. Although not raised in the complaint, we note that when 
entering executive session under Purpose 7, the Board must state the specific law that requires 
the public body to keep its deliberations confidential, unless doing so would defeat the lawful 
purpose for secrecy. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. 455 Mass. at 569. The failure to 
specify the statutory purpose on the November 7 meeting notice violated the Open Meeting Law, 
and we further remind the Board of its obligations when entering executive session under 
Purpose 7. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the minutes should have included the declaration that 
having a discussion in open session would be detrimental to the Board's bargaining or litigating 
position. The declaration that having a discussion about collective bargaining or pending 
litigation in open session would be detrimental to the Board's litigating position must be 
announced in open session. G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(3). This declaration does not need to be 
recorded in the minutes. Accordingly, we find no violation in this regard. However, we strongly 
encourage public bodies to record the declaration in the meeting minutes so that members of the 
public can be confident that the declaration was made. We understand that the Board now 
records this statement in the minutes. We commend the Board for taking this action. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting its meeting notice in a 
location that was not accessible to everyone, a violation which has now been corrected. We also 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list in the meeting minutes the 
documents used during the November 7 meeting and by posting an insufficiently detailed notice 
for that meeting. We order the Board to amend the November 7 open session minutes to include 
the list of documents used at the meeting within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. 
Furthermore, because the portion of the November 7 executive session concerning a bankruptcy 
filing lacked a proper statutory purpose, we also order the release to the public of that portion of 
the executive session minutes within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(e). The Board may not withhold this portion of the minutes, based on privilege or any 
exemption under the Public Records Law. See OML 2015-10. We order the Board's immediate 
and future compliance with the Law, and caution the Board that a similar, future violation may 
be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 