===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 30, 2013 
OML 2013-194 
Stanley L. Weinberg, Esq. 
Collins & Weinberg 
47 Memorial Dr. 
Shrewsbury, MA 01545-4028 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Weinberg: 
This office received copies of two Open Meeting Law complaints dated July 2, 2013 and 
July 18, 2013, filed by Amrith Kumar and Larry Pape, respectively, alleging violations of the 
Open Meeting Law by the Sterling Board of Selectmen (the Board). Specifically, the complaints 
allege that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting in connection with the creation and 
mailing of a letter to constituents regarding certain Town Meeting warrant articles. The two 
complaints were originally filed with the Board on June 3, 2013 and May 31, 2013, respectively, 
and the Board responded to each complaint by letter dated July 1, 2013.1 
We reviewed Mr. Pape's May 31, 2013 and July 18, 2013 complaints; Mr. Kumar's June 
3, 2013 and July 2, 2013 complaints, including attached email correspondence; the July 1, 2013 
responses from the Board; the Board's August 20, 2013 response to our office's request for 
certain documents and information, and subsequent emails providing supplemental information; 
email correspondence from the complainants to our office; the notice, agenda, and minutes of the 
Board's February 27, 2013, April 11, 2013, and April 29, 2013 meetings; video recordings of the 
Board's February 27, 2013 and April 29, 2013 meetings; and the warrant for the Town's May 13, 
1 As requested in your letter dated June 6, 2013, our office granted the Board an extension of time to respond until 
its meeting on July 1, 2013. During that meeting, the Board discussed and voted on action related to other Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed by these complainants, but did not discuss these two complaints. Mr. Kumar then 
asked when he'd receive the response to his complaints. He was told that the Board "just voted it," and the response 
would be provided to him by Town Counsel the following day. We note that our letter granting the Board an 
extension of time to respond to the complaints read, "Please provide the complainant with your response to the 
complaints on or before Monday, July 1,2013." (emphasis in original) While we acknowledge that public bodies 
may need to vote on a proposed response before sending it, if that vote is scheduled for the day that a written 
response is due, the body should be prepared to provide the written response to the complainant immediately after 
the vote occurs. See 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
2013 Town Meeting. Additionally, we spoke via telephone with the complainants in July 2013 
and October 2013; with you in August 2013 and October 2013; and with Selectmen Brian 
Patacchiola and Ronald Furmaniuk in October 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not deliberate outside of an open 
meeting in connection with the creation of the May 8, 2013 letter to constituents, but the Board 
did improperly deliberate in creating a letter-to-the-editor upon which the May 8, 2013 letter was 
based, and in deciding to send the May 8, 2013 letter to constituents. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a three member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. At the time the events in question occurred, its members were 
Ronald Furmaniuk, Brian Patacchiola, and Chairman Paul Sushchyk. 
In the Winter and Spring of 2013, the Board held a number of meetings during which it 
discussed whether to support various warrant articles prior to the Spring Town Meeting. During 
its February 27, 2013 and April 29, 2013 open meetings, the Board specifically discussed 
Articles 26, 27, and 28. Following its discussion of the specific articles during this meeting, the 
Town Administrator noted there were a lot of articles that year being sponsored by the 
Selectmen, including four government study articles representing "pretty significant changes." 
Selectman Patacchiola asked if the Board wanted to engage in a PR campaign "to come out and 
state, you know, this is what we're doing, and why we think it's a great idea." The Chair replied 
that they did need to get something in the newspaper to show why they were engaging in a bit of 
a "sea change" or "paradigm shift." Selectman Furmaniuk noted, "We've discussed these over 
many many meetings over many many months," and agreed that creating a summary to make the 
reasons for their support clear made sense. Selectman Patacchiola was asked to draft a letter and 
provide it "in about a month's time." The Chair concluded by saying, "Write it. Circulate it. 
And we'll help you revise it." 
The Board continued its discussion of the support initiative for Town Meeting warrant 
articles during its April 11, 2013 open meeting. The minutes from that meeting state, 
"Selectman Patacchiola will write letters to the Editors of local papers. Other Selectmen will 
provide input for these letters prior to sending to the editors." 
On April 20, 2013, Selectman Patacchiola sent an email to the other two selectmen with 
the subject line "Support initiatives." The email read, in relevant part, as follows: 
Gentlemen, 
Here is the first draft. I wrote it and Terri took the first stab at making some edits. 1 
implemented most of them already. I am still working the introduction, but I wanted to 
give you guys a time to look at it thus far. 
2 Recordings of the Sterling Board of Selectmen meetings and the annual Sterling Town Meeting may be found at; 
http://www.towrLhallstreams.com/locations/sterling-ma. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Ron, if at all possible please look at it this evening or tomorrow morning. Paul and 1 are 
going to link up on Sunday to go over more thoroughly. 
About an hour later. Selectman Patacchiola sent another email to the other two selectmen 
attaching an updated draft of the letter, noting that he had included additional detail in certain 
sections. 
The next day, April 21, 2013, Selectman Furmaniuk responded to Selectman 
Patacchiola's email, copying Chairman Sushchyk as well, and stated as follows: 
Brian, 
I made a few edits to consider. Another thing I was thinking of was in regard to Art. 18, 
is the cost of having these special elections whenever this threshold was met. I forget the 
average cost per election. Dawn would know, but for something that geared to saving 
money why would we have to pay to have an election for, most likely one topic? Who is 
to then say that people would show up to vote on a one issue ballot? Off year elections 
are historically lower in turnout, why do people presume this will change? 
Very nice summary of the BOS positions, thanks for taking the time to write it. 
Cheers, 
Ron 
On April 27, 2013, Selectman Patacchiola sent two versions of the letter to the Sterling 
Meetinghouse News, along with a request that the letter be published. The other two Selectmen 
were copied on this email. A condensed version of the letter appeared in the Sterling 
Meetinghouse News on May 4, 2013. 
On May 3, 2013, Selectman Patacchiola emailed the other two Board members, with 
copies to the Town Administrator and the Board Assistant, saying: 
"Ron and Paul, 
Attached is a letter that I would like to mail to a list of constituents (mostly my 
supporters) on behalf of the BoS. I'd like to put this on Board [stationery et al.] Let me 
know if you have any problems with the letter or with my intentions." 
The attached letter expressed positions on the warrant articles using language similar to 
what had been sent to the newspaper, but the letter had been condensed and revised. It does not 
appear that any of the selectmen responded to Selectman Patacchiola's email, and he does not 
recall verbally discussing the content of this version of the letter with any other Board member. 
The Town Administrator responded solely to Selectman Patacchiola with minor spelling and 
formatting changes. 
On May 7, 2013, Selectman Patacchiola emailed the Board Assistant and the Town 
Administrator, with copies to the other Board members, with the subject "Campaign finance." In 
this email he inquired whether the Board could send the letter to constituents, and noted he did 
3 
===PAGE 4===
not want to break any ethics rules. Selectman Patacchiola stated in an interview with our office 
that this inquiry was "entirely self-driven," and that he did not discuss the ethics issue with any 
other Board member either prior to or after sending this message. The Town Administrator 
subsequently sent an email to Town Counsel, copying Selectman Patacchiola and the Board 
Assistant, asking if he had any problem with the letter being sent on Town letterhead from the 
Board to various citizens. It does not appear that either of the other Selectmen responded to the 
email in writing, though in a May 18, 2013 email exchange with one of the complainants (Mr. 
Kumar), Selectman Patacchiola stated that he did receive a "verbal go ahead" from the other 
selectmen to send the letters. 
Later that evening, Selectman Patacchiola sent another email to the Board Assistant and 
the Town Administrator, again copying the other two Board members, with the subject line 
"Letters to Constituents." The email indicated that the letters were being sent out. The letters 
were mailed the following day. May 8, 2013. The letters were signed by Selectman Patacchiola, 
though the signature block noted it came from the entire Board. In the letter, the Board urges 
support for five warrant articles. Articles 25-29, and asks that recipients not support Article 18. 
The annual Town Meeting was held on May 13, 2013. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting regarding the 
content and distribution of a letter to constituents regarding certain Town Meeting warrant 
articles. The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberation occur during a properly noticed 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as an "oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"quorum" is "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in 
a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id Deliberation does 
not include "the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.'" Id, (emphasis added). Furthermore, 
expression of an opinion on matters within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of the public body 
is deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2012-67; OML 2012-
8; OML 2011-37. 
In response to the complaints, the Board states that "[a]ll actions taken by Selectman 
Patacchiola were completely consistent with the broad authorization given to him [] by the Board 
in open meeting to take the lead on the public relations campaign." While the Board 
acknowledges that Selectman Patacchiola sent the other two Board members a draft of the letter 
to constituents via email and received verbal approval from both to send it, the Board contends 
there were no other discussions about the details or resulting revisions to that letter. The Board's 
response confuses Selectman Patacchiola's authority to draft the letter with the Board's 
adherence to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, the response is 
3 The warrant for the May 13, 2013 Town Meeting noted that Articles 25-29 were each submitted by the Board of 
Selectmen, and that the Board recommended passage of those articles. Article 18 was a citizens' petition, and the 
Board did not support its passage. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
inconsistent with the clear deliberation outside of a meeting regarding the letter to the press upon 
which this letter was based. 
The Board discussed the concept of sending a letter to the press regarding certain Town 
Meeting warrant articles, as well as its positions on those articles, during several open meetings. 
The members decided to delegate the task of drafting the letter to a single member, who would 
then present it to the others for review. Had Selectman Patacchiola simply drafted the letter and 
distributed it to the other members for discussion at an open meeting, without any additional 
commentary or advocacy, we agree that his actions would have been appropriate. See, e.g. OML 
2013-4 (finding that a public body did not violate the Open Meeting Law when one member 
emailed a draft guest column regarding the upcoming Town Meeting to a quorum of the body for 
discussion at a meeting that evening). This type of activity is an administrative task, not 
deliberation. Id. However, that is not what occurred here. 
Selectman Patacchiola's April 20, 2013 email to the other two selectmen attached a draft 
of the letter to the press and explicitly invited the other members to comment on it outside of a 
meeting. Selectman Furmaniuk responded via email the next day with edits to the document and 
his opinion on one of the articles discussed. The Board's position on the six warrant articles was 
clearly public business within its jurisdiction, as evidenced by the extensive discussion of these 
issues during open meetings. See OML 2012-93 (finding email sent to a quorum of a School 
Building Committee regarding members' opposition to a Town Meeting article concerned public 
business within the Committee's jurisdiction). The opinions, comments and revisions in 
Selectman Furmaniuk's email should, therefore, have been presented during an open meeting. 
See OML 2013-29; OML 2013-17; OML 2012-84. 
We also find troubling the portion of Selectman Patacchiola's April 20, 2013 email where 
he notes his plans to discuss the draft with Chairman Sushchyk in person on Sunday. Because 
the Board has only three members, any conversation between two members concerning matters 
of public business within the Board's jurisdiction would be improper if conducted outside of a 
meeting. See OML 2011-27. For the same reason, any "verbal go ahead" regarding sending the 
letter to constituents also should have occurred during a meeting.4 Id. 
In response to the complaints, the Board asserts that even if a violation did occur it was 
"at worst a de minimis, non-intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law." While the Board 
members may not have acted with specific intent to violate the law, the deliberation that occurred 
is precisely the type of private communication the law is designed to prevent. We acknowledge, 
however, that determining which tasks are merely "administrative" can be challenging. Our best 
advice continues to be, therefore, that public bodies avoid communicating over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings, and distributing documents 
created by non-members to be discussed at meetings, which are administrative tasks specifically 
sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. OML 2013-4; OML 2013-5; OML 2013-17. 
4 While Selectman Patacchiola stated in interviews with our office that this "seemed like another angle of the broad 
scope that was given" to him during the Board's meetings, there was no discussion about sending letters to 
constituents during a meeting, and Selectman Patacchiola's email asking if the other members had "any problems 
with the letter or with my intentions" shows he was uncertain whether this letter fell within the scope of the 
delegated task. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating over email and in person outside of an open meeting. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law, and order the Board to publicly release all of the emails and 
accompanying attachments referenced in this determination, unless the attorney/client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. This should occur within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of this letter. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Sterling Board of Selectmen 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Amrith Kumar 
Larry Pape 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 