===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 174 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Susan Dietrich 
Chair, Medway School Committee  
sdietrich@medwayschools.org   
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Dietrich: 
 
This office received two complaints—one from David Fitzgerald and one from Kristin 
Guarino—on February 22, 2022,
1 alleging that the Medway School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Fitzgerald and Ms. 
Guarino originally filed their complaints with the Committee on or about January 20 and January 
26, respectively. You responded to both complaints on behalf of the Committee by letters dated 
February 9. The complaints allege that the Committee failed to provide sufficient notice that it 
would discuss a specific topic during its January 6 workshop meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficiently specific notices for two separate meetings held on January 6. At the outset, 
we note that we do not review, and offer no opinion on, the substance of the discussions at issue, 
but rather review only whether the Committee posted sufficient notice of the discussions. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints; the Committee’s 
responses; the requests for further review; several emails exchanged between the Chair and other 
individuals; notices for Committee meetings held at 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. on January 6; the 
minutes of the 5:00 p.m. meeting; a video recording of a presentation made by Medway Marches 
to the Committee during the 5:00 p.m. meeting;
2 and a video recording of the 6:00 p.m. 
meeting.3 
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the presentation may be found at https://medwaymarches.com/elementor-699/. 
3 A video recording of the Committee’s 6:00 p.m. January 6 meeting at https://new.medwaycable.com/vod/3054-
sc010622a-v1/vod mp4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. In July of 2021, Chair Dietrich4 exchanged a few 
emails with Brittney Walley of Medway Marches regarding the possibility of changing the 
Columbus Day holiday to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar. In an email dated 
July 8, 2021, Ms. Walley indicated that she would invite a panel of speakers if her group was to 
present on this issue to the Committee.   
 
In a series of emails dated May 5, October 10, and October 12, 2021, Chair Dietrich and 
Committee member Lauren Nassif discussed the possibility of the Committee considering 
changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar. In one email, 
Member Nassif suggested discussing the possible change when the Committee reviewed the 
upcoming school year calendar. Chair Dietrich responded that she liked the idea of including this 
topic as part of the calendar discussion and that she had met with members of Medway Marches 
over the summer regarding the topic.  
 
On November 5, 2021, at 9:09 a.m. Chair Dietrich emailed Marques Crosby of Medway 
Marches stating that she was glad they connected that morning and sharing some information “in 
case it is helpful as you plan for the discussion.” Chair Dietrich stated, “I imagine the School 
Committee will be interested in how other communities have addressed this issue, so as you 
prepare, any insight you can share on that might be helpful as well.” 
 
Thereafter, at 9:13 a.m. on November 5, 2021, Chair Dietrich sent the following email 
entitled “School Calendar Discussion” to the Superintendent, Armand Pires: 
 
Good morning, 
 
I had a recent conversation with Marques Crosby from Medway Marches, and they 
are interested in talking with the  School Committee in a workshop about the 
possibility of changing Columbus  Day to Indigenous Peoples Day on the  school 
calendar. 
 
I let Marques know that we could probably do that in a workshop prior to our 
January 6th meeting, as we do not vote in workshops but use them as a chance to 
explore relevant topics to school committee business. 
 
Can we reserve the time before our January 6th meeting (probably 5:00- 5:50) for 
this discussion? I am happy to chat about it in more detail the next time we meet - 
I am just sending this as a placeholder as we plan for future meetings. 
 
Thanks, 
Susan  
 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Finally, at 9:14 a.m. on November 5, 2021, Marques Crosby responded to Chair 
Dietrich’s earlier email stating “I [am] ready to present all of the locations that have passed this 
. . . .” 
 
 On January 3, the Committee posted se parate notices for two meetings to be held on 
January 6: a workshop at 5:00 p.m. and a regular meeting at 6:00 p.m. The notice for the 
workshop included two substantive topics, “2022-2023 School Year Calendar” and “SLA” 
(Service Level Agreement). The notice for the regular meeting included, among other things, the 
topic “First Reading: 2022-2023 School Year Calendar.” 
 
 The full Committee attended the January 6 workshop. Ms. Walley of Medway Marches 
and seven other individuals were in attendance, both physically and remotely, and prepared to 
present to the Committee regarding Columbus Day and Indigenous Peoples’ Day. At the 
beginning of the workshop Chair Dietrich stated that they had approximately 35 minutes for the 
presentation so as to leave time for the Committee to ask questions at the end. The minutes of the 
January 6 workshop are sparse and only the presentation—not the Committee’s discussion 
afterwards—was video recorded. However, we understand from the minutes and an email from 
Chair Dietrich to Mr. Fitzgerald that the Committee discussed, though not for long, the topic of 
changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day. The Committee did not vote or take any 
action regarding the topic during the workshop. The entire workshop, which lasted 
approximately 53 minutes, was devoted to discussion of Columbus Day and Indigenous Peoples’ 
Day; the Committee was unable to discuss any other aspects of the school year calendar or the 
Service Level Agreement, as originally anticipated.  
 
 During discussion of the school year calendar at the 6:00 p.m. meeting, the Committee 
discussed the earlier presentation and the possibility of changing Columbus Day to Indigenous 
Peoples’ Day. This discussion lasted for approximately 20 minutes, after which the Committee 
agreed that it would vote to approve the school year calendar as presented, with the Columbus 
Day holiday, during its next meeting and continue to discuss in the future the various options 
with respect to Columbus Day and Indigenous Peoples’ Day.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that notices include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
 
Topic
s for discussion must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A public body need 
not list every detail about a topic in order to comply with the law’s requirements, nor does a 
public body need to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion when 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
including topics on a notice. See OML 2019-134.5 When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was discussed at the 
meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific. See OML 2015-101. 
 
The complaints allege that the notice topic “2022-2023 School Year Calendar” was 
insufficiently specific to inform the public of the anticipated discussion related to changing 
Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar. The Committee does not 
dispute that the topic was anticipated. Rather, the Committee asserts that  
 
At the time the agenda was posted, we anticipated that any discussion of [Columbus 
Day/Indigenous Peoples’ Day] would be but one part of the broader discussion of 
the school calendar, rather than an in depth discussion of  [Columbus 
Day/Indigenous Peoples’ Day] specifically. . . . It is not always possible to judge 
how long each discussion on each issue will last, and while we anticipated 
additional attendance from those interested in the issue of [Columbus 
Day/Indigenous Peoples’ Day] on the school calendar, we simply did not anticipate 
this amount of discussion on [Columbus Day/Indigenous Peoples’ Day] prior to the 
workshop. 
 
Based on the email and video evidence before us, we find that Chair Dietrich specifically 
antici
pated a formal presentation by a panel of speakers organized by Medway Marches and 
robust discussion regarding the topic of changing Columbus Day to Indigenous People’s Day 
during the January 6 workshop, including the approximate length of such presentation and 
discussion. See OML 2014-47; OML 2015-12. Additionally, we find that the notice topics 
“2022-2023 School Year Calendar” and “First Reading: 2022-2023 School Year Calendar” were 
insufficient to reasonably inform the public that the Committee would discuss changing 
Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day. See OML 2019-77 (Notice topic “Review FY20 
Department budgets” insufficient where specific department budgets anticipated for discussion); 
OML 2019-89 (finding that the notice topics “Host Agreement,” “Land Development,” and 
“Non-Opposition letter” “did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the Board would 
be discussing a marijuana establishment - a topic that, no doubt, was the subject of immense 
public interest”); OML 2019-117 (finding that the notice topics “Discussion of the AIDS Support 
Group’s plans in Falmouth” and “Seeing [sic] formal letter of support from the Board of Health” 
did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the Board would discuss and approve a 
syringe access program); OML 2021-202 (finding that the notice topic “Bailey Project Special 
Permit” did not reasonably notify the public that the Board would discuss a large used vehicle 
processing facility).
6  
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Although not raised in the complaints and not discussed at the meeting due to limited time, we advise the 
Committee that the inclusion of an acronym like “SLA” on a meeting notice likely does not comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. Our office discourages the use of acronyms that are not widely understood by members of the public.  
See OML 2017-197; OML 2016-5. Although “SLA” might be meaningful to Committee members and regular 
Committee meeting attendees, it is potentially unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the regular matters 
before the Committee. See OML 2013-55; OML 2020-132. 
===PAGE 5===
Next, we must determine whether the violation was, as the complainants urges,
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an "act or omission by a public
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law]." 940 CMR 29.02.
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of
the law's requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open
Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Committee against the violation found
here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation.
Instead, it appears that the Committee was mistaken about the level of specificity required for
meeting notice topics. We therefore decline to find that the violation was intentional.
Finally, although not raised in the complaints, we note that the minutes of the January 6
workshop are insufficiently detailed. As we have explained to the Committee before, meeting
minutes must include a summary of the discussions on each topic. See OML 2014-67. Here, the
minutes essentially include a list of the individuals who provided public comment. The minutes
do not summarize any comments made by either the presenters or members of the Committee.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law
by posting insufficiently specific notices for two separate meetings held on January 6. We order
the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Because the Committee did not
reach any decision regarding changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples' Day, we do not
order any further remedial action.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Elang
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Ellen Quinn, Secretary to the Medway School Committee (via e-mail:
equinn@medwayschools.org)
David Fitzgerald (via email:
Kristin Guarino (via email:
5
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 