===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 22, 2015 
OML 2015- 139 
Guy Home, Jr., Chair 
Dudley Planning Board 
Dudley Town Hall 
71 West Main Street 
Dudley, MA 01571 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Home: 
This office received a complaint from Dennis Brosnihan on April 29,1 alleging that the 
Dudley Planning Board (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 26, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated April 14.2 In his complaint, Mr. Brosnihan alleges that 
during the Board's March 25 meeting, a quorum of the Board left the meeting and deliberated 
behind closed doors. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a meeting. We find this to be an intentional violation of the law, and 
we refer the matter to a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3), In reaching our 
determination, we reviewed the initial complaint; the Board's response; and the complaint 
filed with our office, requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notice, minutes, 
and a recording from the Board's March 25 meeting. Finally, in July we spoke individually 
by telephone with all of the Board members: Chair Guy Home;3 Mark Marzeotti; Thomas 
Holt, Marcia Wagner; and Sean Guerin. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Board convened a meeting on March 25, in part, to hold a 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 We also spoke with Chair Home on June 1. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
continuation of a public hearing on an application for a zoning permit for a solar farm, which 
is a permitted use by right per Dudley's Zoning Bylaws, and which requires a super majority 
vote for approval. This permit was an issue of significant interest in the community, thus the 
meeting was well-attended by the public. Upon a motion to approve the solar permit, one of 
the Board members, Ms. Wagner, inquired about whether the requirements of the Town's 
bylaws had been satisfied,4 After some discussion, the Board moved forward with the 
motion. Two members, Ms. Wagner and Mr. Guerin, abstained and the other three members 
approved the vote. Because a supermajority of the Board did not approve the permit 
application, it failed. According to everyone on the Board, Ms. Wagner and Mr. Guerin 
abstained from the vote because, being newer members to the Board, they did not entirely 
understand the Board's role in the permit approval process.5 The permit applicant then 
requested a short recess, which the Board granted. 
During the recess, Mr. Home left the meeting room to use the restroom. Immediately 
after Mr. Home left the room, the remaining Board members began a discussion about the 
vote. Mr. Marzeotti turned to the two members who abstained from the vote, and asked them 
whether they understood what they were being asked to decide. Mr. Marzeotti then suggested 
that the Board members "step out" of the meeting room. The four Board members left the 
meeting room with the Town Planner and convened in the Planning Board office. A few 
minutes later, Mr. Home joined the discussion. All of the Board members state that they 
discussed the Board's role in the permit approval process, pursuant to the Town's bylaws. 
The Board discussed the voting procedure and explained to the two newer Board members 
that the vote must pass in order to avoid a lawsuit against the Town. Ms. Wagner explained 
her interpretation of the Town bylaws. At one point, Mr. Home suggested that the Board 
return to the meeting room. Ms. Wagner may have also suggested that the Board cease the 
discussion and return to the meeting room. The Board continued its discussion for several 
more minutes, however, before Mr. Home and Mr. Holt again suggested that the Board return 
to the meeting and reconsider the vote. The meeting minutes note that the recess lasted 
approximately ten to fifteen minutes.6 
The Board returned to the meeting room and re-convened the meeting, at which time 
the Board took a re-vote and unanimously approved the permit. Members of the public then 
questioned the Board's action and what occurred during the recess. In response, Mr. Home 
explained that the Board discussed "procedure" in the Planning Board office during the 
recess. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
4 During a lull in this discussion, Mr. Home, Mr. Holt and Ms. Wagner began audibly whispering to each other 
about the possibility that the permit applicant could sue the Town if the vote failed. 
5 Mr. Guerin was appointed in 2013 and Ms. Wagner was appointed in 2014. 
6 According to the recording, the exact time of the recess was eighteen minutes; however we credit the Board's 
assertion that the discussion itself lasted about ten minutes. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction-, provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id (emphasis added). 
We find that the Board improperly deliberated during a recess of its March 25 meeting 
and that this deliberation was intentionally done behind closed doors and outside of the 
public's view. See OML 2011-27.7 There is no dispute that a discussion occurred between 
the entire Board concerning the solar permit. The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an 
exception to the definition of "deliberation" for procedural discussions among public body 
members about how its meetings should be run. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108 (in which 
we found that a discussion concerning the leadership of a public body to be a matter of public 
business that should be reserved for an open meeting). However, the Law does afford a 
limited exception to the definition of "deliberation" for the distribution of certain 
administrative documents, such as a meeting agenda or scheduling information, provided that 
no opinion of a public body member is expressed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Apart from this 
limited exception for certain written materials, a quorum of the Board may not communicate 
on matters within its jurisdiction outside of a meeting. Accordingly, even if the discussion 
had concerned "process" only, as Mr. Home contended, it would still constitute an improper 
deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Id. Moreover, during this private 
meeting several Board members suggested that they should cease the conversation and return 
to the meeting room. Nevertheless, all of the members remained in the Planning Board office 
and participated in the discussion, which lasted for at least ten minutes.9 Finally, there is no 
dispute that, as a consequence of this discussion, the Board returned to the meeting room and 
reconsidered its vote on the solar permit. 
We therefore find this deliberation was an intentional violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. An intentional violation is an "act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in 
knowing violation of the Open Meeting Law." 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation 
may be found where the public body has "acted with specific intent to violate the law [or] 
acted with deliberate ignorance of the law's requirements." Id. All of the members 
acknowledged to our office that the discussion probably should have not occurred. At the 
time it occurred, several members of the Board interjected to try to cease the discussion but 
then remained in the Planning Board office and permitted it to continue. Furthermore, the 
entire Board actively participated in the discussion. Based on its actions, the Board clearly 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
8 We note that the discussion does not appear to have been limited to "process." 
9 Additionally, we note that the recording of the meeting shows a quorum of the Board "whispering" to each 
other during the meeting. A quorum of a public body should not communicate privately during a break in the 
meeting about matters within the Board's jurisdiction. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
knew that a private meeting of this sort was not permitted under the Law and therefore we 
find that this violation was intentional. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a meeting. We find that this violation was intentional. We therefore 
refer this matter to a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3). We recommend the following 
orders be imposed; 
i) a civil penalty of $ 1,000; 
ii) nullification of the vote taken immediately following the improper deliberation; 
and 
iii) an order of immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 23(c)(1), (3), (4). 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board. We invite the Board to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 to 
discuss the hearing process. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Dennis Brosnihan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 