===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 1, 2016 
OML 2016-118 
Joseph Macy, Esq. 
Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received three complaints from Patrick Higgins, dated April 6, alleging that 
the Fall River City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaints were originally filed with the Council on March 8, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Council, in a letter on July 13. In each complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that, at the 
beginning of specific Council meetings, the Council President failed to require those individuals 
who intended to record the meeting to notify him. Additionally, Mr. Higgins alleges that the 
Council, as a practice, does not create and/or approve written meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to approve its meeting minutes in a timely manner and by failing to respond to Open Meeting 
Law complaints within 14 business days. However, we find no violation with respect to the 
Council's procedure for announcing the recording of its meetings. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed portions of the video recordings of the 
Council meetings held on February 9, February 23, and March 8, which are posted on the Fall 
River Cable Access Television website.2 
We find the facts as follows. At the beginning of the Council meetings held on February 
9, February 23, and March 8, President Shawn Cadime announced that any person "may make a 
recording" and that "people are advised that such recordings.. .are being made." It does not 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 See http://fi-gtv.fi-edtv.iis/ 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
appear from the video that President Cadime asked the audience whether anyone intended to 
record the meeting. 
Before the filing of these complaints, the Council drafted minutes of its meetings, but did 
not approve them. The Council has since changed this practice by approving minutes at the next 
meeting. The Council has not, however, approved the draft minutes of any meetings held before 
the filing of these complaints in March. 
On March 8, the complainant filed the three Open Meeting Law complaints with the 
Council. The Council did not respond to the complaints within 14 business days of its receipt, 
and the complainant subsequently sought further review of the matter by filing a copy of the 
original complaints with our office on April 6. At no time did the Council request an extension 
of time to respond to the complaints. In June, the Office informed us that it had experienced 
some personnel turnover and would respond to the complaints in due course. The Council 
responded to the complaints in a letter dated July 16. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Council Properly Announced that its Meetings Were Being Recorded. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). The Open Meeting Law 
states that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio 
recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through 
any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting." Id at § 
20(f). The law requires the chair to inform attendees of any recording. Id. The requirement that 
the chair inform attendees that a meeting is being recorded includes the requirement that the 
chair inform the attendees when those recordings are being made by the public body itself for 
public broadcasting or administrative purposes. See OML 2013-136; OML 2012-24.3 
The complaint alleges that President Cadime failed to require those who intended to 
record the meeting to notify him at the beginning of the meeting. This is not a requirement of the 
Open Meeting Law. Rather, the law requires the chair to announce that the meeting is being 
recorded only upon becoming aware that a person intends to record the meeting. See OML 
2015-151; see also OML 2014-8 (the chair must inform members of the public of any recording 
of which the chair is aware). Here, the City cable channel regularly records the Council 
meetings. Accordingly, President Cadime properly complied with the law by notifying the 
public at the beginning of the meeting that the meeting was being recorded. Where this 
announcement is already being made, the law does not require the chair to inquire about 
additional recordings. The purpose of the law—to notify the public that the meeting is being 
recorded—was served with this one announcement. Only in the instance where a chair does not 
know whether anyone is recording the meeting, and therefore does not know whether to make 
the announcement, should the chair should make reasonable inquiries of the audience to 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determine whether anyone intends to record the meeting. See OML 2014-39; OML 2013-139. 
Accordingly, we find that the Council did not violate the law in this regard. 
II. The Council Failed to Approve its Meeting Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of ail votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law does not provide a definition of 
"timely manner," but a public body should approve minutes at the next meeting where possible. 
See id.; OML 2012-91. For bodies that meet regularly, we have concluded that a delay of two to 
three months in approving minutes does not comply with the law. See OML 2016-62. 
The Council has failed to create and approve meeting minutes in a timely manner, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Council had a longstanding 
practice of drafting minutes, but not approving them. Since the filing of these complaints in 
March, the Council corrected this practice and began approving minutes at the next meeting. 
The Council has not, however, approved the draft minutes from any of its meetings held before 
March. Accordingly, we order the Council to approve the backlog of draft minutes of any of its 
meetings held since July 1, 2010.4 
III. The Council Failed to Properly Respond to These Complaints. 
We find that the Council failed to properly respond to these complaints. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days after receiving a complaint the public body 
shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the 
Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). At no point did the Council request an extension of time to 
respond to the complaints. By taking nearly four months to respond, the Board clearly failed to 
comply with the Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to approve its meeting minutes in a timely manner and by failing to respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Council, within 60 
days of receipt of this determination, to approve the backlog of draft minutes of its meetings held 
since July 1, 2010. 
4 Our office assumed authority for the interpretation and enforcement of the Open Meeting Law, as it applies to local 
public bodies, on July 1, 2010. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(a); see also G.L. c, 30A, §§ 18-25, generally. Prior to July 1, 
2010, the law governing meetings of local public bodies was G.L. c. 39, § 23B (now repealed), and the District 
Attorneys were responsible for its enforcement. One of the practical effects of this change is that our office has 
authority to enforce the Open Meeting Law only with respect to violations that occurred on or after July 1, 2010. 
See OML 2015-97. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River City Council 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
4 