===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2018 
OML 2018-119 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from James Whitney, dated July 19, alleging that the 
Leominster City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on May 18, and the Council responded 
by letter dated June 1. In his complaint, James Whitney alleges that the Council violated the 
Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic during its May 14 meeting that was not listed on the 
meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, and the 
complainant's request for further review. 
We find the facts as follows. The day of a properly noticed meeting scheduled for May 
14, Council member Susan Chalifoux Zephir received an anonymous letter which read as 
follows: 
Please be advised that Jim Whitney of 98 Adams Street has illegally tapped into the fire 
Hydrant (sic) on the property for free usage for his irrigation system. 
If not rectified soon, I will notify the local and social media for publication. 
Regards, 
Leominster Resident & Tax Payer (sic). 
At the end of the meeting, during a portion of the meeting reserved for the "Community 
Calendar," Ms. Chalifoux Zephir raised the issue of the anonymous letter. She read the letter 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, 
FACTS 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
aloud to the Council. The councilors then briefly discussed the letter and expressed their 
disapproval of its anonymous nature. Finally, the Council president asked Ms. Chalifoux Zephir 
to investigate the letter's allegations. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition 
to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays ... Notice shall 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Any topic discussed at a meeting that was reasonably 
anticipated by the public body chair must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Id. However, topics that arise less than 48 hours before the meeting 
may be considered by the public body, even if they were not listed in the meeting notice, if they 
were not reasonably anticipated. See OML 2013-61; OML 2011-36.2 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include the issue of the letter on the meeting agenda. We disagree, Ms. Chalifoux Zephir did 
not receive the letter in question until May 14, the day of the meeting. Further, the Council's 
response states that Council president, who acts as the Council's chair, was unaware that this 
issue would be brought up. The complainant's own account of the discussion supports this 
assertion.3 We have previously stated that the Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a 
public body to guess what will occur at a meeting. See OML 2013-197. As the Council 
president could not have reasonably anticipated receipt of the letter just ahead of the meeting, we 
find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-61. Despite 
declining to find a violation, we take this opportunity to remind the Council that the Attorney 
General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if the topic was not listed in the 
meeting notice. See OML 2013-87. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The complainant's request for further review includes a transcription of the portion of the meeting where the letter 
was discussed. In this transcription, it is clear that Ms. Chalifoux Zephir brought up the letter organically and 
without first making the other Council members aware of its contents. In addition, the Council president made clear 
that he would not have put the issue on the floor had it not been brought up by Ms. Chalifoux Zephir. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: James Whitney 
Leominster City Council 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 