===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 20, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 196 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck:  
This Office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 5, 2021, alleging that 
the Fall River City Council Committee on Ordinances and Legislation (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on February 3, 2021, and the Council responded by letter dated February 11, 
2021.1  In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s November 20, 
2020, meeting fail to record the roll call votes that were taken during the meeting. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.   We also reviewed minutes of the 
Committee’s November 20 meeting. 
At the time of the November 20 meeting, Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020, Executive 
Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law was in effect. The Executive 
Order allowed public bodies to hold their meetings virtually, with all members of a public body 
participating remotely.  The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations, which remained 
in effect at all relevant times, require that “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member 
participates remotely must be by roll call vote,” even if a vote is unanimous. 940 CMR 
29.10(7)(c); see OML 2020-82; OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, which must 
include, among other things, “the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Although neither 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Open Meeting Law nor the Attorney General’s regulations explicitly require that meeting 
minutes document a roll call vote by listing the names of each public body member and how 
each voted, the Division of Open Government’s guidance is that, for maximum accuracy and 
clarity, the minutes indeed should list how each member voted. 
Here, there is no dispute that the Committee took all votes during its November 20 
meeting by roll call, as required, and that all five members voted on each motion.  The 
November 20 meeting minutes accurately state that the meeting was held remotely; list the 
names of all five Committee members; and specify that each of the five members was present at 
the meeting.  In the record of several votes taken during the meeting, the minutes state, “it was 
voted 5 yeas to approve...” or “it was voted 5 yeas to recommend...”  In instances where the vote 
was not unanimous, the minutes state, “it was voted 4 yeas, 1 nay...” and then identify the name 
of the Committee member who voted in the negative. 
It continues to be the Division’s guidance that meeting minutes should record a roll call 
vote by documenting the vote of each public body member by name.  However, in this instance, 
we find that the combination of listing the five Committee members present at the meeting, 
combined with the statement “5 yeas” or “4 yeas, 1 nay” with the name of the Committee 
member voting in the negative, clearly and accurately recorded the roll call vote of each 
Committee member.  To find these meeting minutes inadequate would place form over 
substance.  Therefore, we do not find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  Cf. 
OML 2021-157 (finding meeting minutes inaccurate, in violation of the Open Meeting Law, 
when the minutes recorded that all ten members voted in the affirmative, but in fact only eight 
members had voted on the motion).2   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
Pam Laliberte-Lebeau, Chair, Fall River City Council Committee on Ordinances and 
Legislation (via e-mail: ) 
 
2 We note that the minutes of the Committee’s November 20 meeting are highly detailed, and we commend the 
Committee and specifically Clerk of Committees Colleen A. Taylor on the quality of the summaries of the 
Committee’s discussions. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 