===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 29, 2013 
OML 2013 — 53 
Heather Applegate, Chair 
Mendon-Upton Regional School Committee 
150 North Ave. 
Mendon, MA 01756 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Applegate: 
This office reviewed a complaint dated May 12, 2012, filed by Mr. Michael Goodwin, 
alleging that the Mendon-Upton Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the 
Committee "failed to post a meeting [notice] at least 48 hours in advance" of its February 21, 
2012 meeting. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee's February 
21, 2012 meeting was not "conspicuously located under the 'splash' on the main page to the 
mursd.org  website as are other notices." Finally, the complaint alleges that the date and time of 
the notice for the February 21, 2012 meeting was not included on the face of the posting, as 
required by 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). The complaint was filed with the Committee on or about 
March 7, 2012. The Committee responded by letter dated April 13, 2012. 
After reviewing the complaint and the Committee's response, we have decided to resolve 
this complaint by informal action,  in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of its February 21, 2012 
meeting more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Committee also failed to conspicuously record thereon 
or therewith the date and time the notice for the Committee's February 21, 2012 meeting was 
posted. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We are satisfied, however, that the Committee has addressed 
the complaint and taken steps to ensure the law is followed for future meeting notices. Where, as 
occurred here, a public body takes corrective action in response to a complaint filed with that 
===PAGE 2===
body, we strongly encourage complainants to reconsider whether further review by this office 
remains necessary. 
The Committee acknowledged both violations in its April 13, 2012 response to the 
complaint, and described its efforts to ensure that such violations do not occur in the future. The 
Committee acknowledged that the notice for its February 21, 2012 meeting was not posted at 
least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, stating that it "did not realize at the time of posting that 
Monday, February 20, 2012 was a legal holiday (President's Day)...As a result of the 
Committee's oversight, the Committee only gave 30 hours' advance notice of the Multi-Board 
meeting, which does not satisfy the OML's notice requirements." The Committee publicly 
acknowledged the violation at its March 5, 2012 meeting and discussed ways to avoid such 
mistakes in the future. 
The Committee also acknowledged that the notice did not include a time and date stamp 
on the face of the notice. The Committee states that it "appreciate[s] the Complainant bringing 
this violation to our attention, and have instructed the Clerk of the Committee to note the date 
and time on all future postings. The Clerk has adopted the form of the Time and Date Stamp 
used by the Town Clerk of the Town of Upton when posting Committee meetings as follows: 
`Received by [name of recipient] at [time/date]." 
Finally, we note that, in response to the allegation that the Committee's February 21, 
2012 meeting notice was not "conspicuously located under the 'splash' on the main page to the 
mursd.org  website as are other notices," the Committee has pledged to "post all agencies 
(including subcommittees) on the splash page under the first listing of latest news and notes so 
that the user will not be required to go under any other tab to access" meeting notices. Although 
we do not fmd that its failure to do so in the past was a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we 
commend the Committee for taking steps to ensure that the meeting notices posted to its website 
are easily accessible to the public. 
In conclusion, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
post notice of its February 21, 2012 meeting more than 48 hours prior to its meeting, and by 
failing to conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and time the notice for the 
Committee's February 21, 2012 meeting. We are satisfied that the Committee has addressed the 
complaint and taken steps to ensure the law is followed for future meeting notices. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law, and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
===PAGE 3===
Sincere]  
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
We now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any other complaints 
against the Committee that may be pending with our office. 
cc: Michael Goodwin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 