===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 20, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 96 
 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on August 11, 2021, alleging 
that the Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 6, and former 
Committee Chair Frank Parker responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
on July 26.  The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s executive session 
meeting held on February 2 are insufficiently detailed.2   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on February 2.  We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office.  The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office’s 
consideration of the complaint. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we must determine whether the minutes contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2020-90; OML 2012-106.3  
While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not 
required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
During the February 2 meeting, the Committee immediately convened in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 3 to discuss strategy with respect to litigation “to wit: Level III 
Grievances.”  The meeting minutes do not include any summary of the discussions that occurred 
during the approximate two-hour executive session meeting.  Rather, the minutes only include a 
list of the motions made, i.e., a motion whether to approve or deny the grievances and a motion 
to adjourn from executive session, and the votes taken with respect to those motions, as well as a 
statement that the “Committee asked questions pertinent to the case.”  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that meeting minutes summarize the discussions that were held, and not merely include 
a single statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic.  See OML 2022-
70; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  We find that the minutes do not adequately capture the 
substance of the discussions that occurred so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have an understanding of what occurred.  As such, we find 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating inaccurate minutes for the 
executive session on February 2.  See OML 2020-53.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include sufficient detail in the minutes of the executive session meeting held on 
February 2.  We order the Committee to revise the February 2 executive session meeting minutes 
and to certify to this office within sixty (60) days of the date of this letter that it has done so.  See 
940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We note that the Committee may continue to withhold the minutes of this 
executive session meeting “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Finally, we order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: https://www.msss.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald – By email only:  
Everett School Committee c/o Chair Jeanne Cristiano – By email only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
