===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 16, 2017 
OML 2017-81 
Vincent K. Ritchie, Chair 
Hubbardston Planning Board 
7 Main Street 
Hubbardston, MA 01452 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Ritchie: 
This office received a complaint from Christine Bolduc, dated April 6, 2017, alleging that 
the Hubbardston Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed on March 13, 2017, and the Board responded by letter 
dated April 3, 2017.1 In her complaint, Ms. Bolduc alleges that the Board deliberated outside of 
a noticed meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a video recording of the 
meeting of the Hubbardston Board of Selectmen (the "Selectmen") held on February 27, 2017.3 
Finally, we spoke with the Board chair by telephone on May 2, 2017.4 
1 Open Meeting Law complaints must first be filed with the public body alleged to have violated the law. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b). For local public bodies, a copy of the complaint must also be filed with the municipal clerk. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). The Board's response states that the complaint was filed instead with the Hubbardston Board of 
Selectmen and the Town Administrator. Because the complaint was forwarded to the Board and the Board 
responded, we review the allegations therein. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board made negative and untrue comments about the complainant. These 
allegations, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. As such, we do not review them. 
See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Open Meeting Law 
determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVVmaSZwOfY. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of five members, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. The Selectmen scheduled a meeting to take place on February 27, 2017. 
Because a quorum of the Board anticipated attending this Selectmen meeting and convening a 
Board meeting thereafter, the Board posted a notice listing the sole topic as, "Attend Board of 
Selectmen's meeting."5 
The Selectmen held the February 27, 2017 meeting as planned. Three Board members— 
chair Vincent Ritchie, and members Thomas Bratko and Thomas Robinson—attended. During 
this meeting, the Selectmen discussed a complaint that had been filed against a Board member. 
Following the Selectmen discussion, the Board chair anticipated that the three Board members 
would remain in the meeting room and discuss next steps following the Selectmen discussion. 
Mr. Robinson left the meeting room, while Chair Ritchie and Mr. Bratko remained inside for 
several minutes. During this period, Chair Ritchie and Mr. Bratko made casual conversation. 
When Mr. Robinson reentered the meeting room, the three Board members discussed whether to 
convene a Board meeting, or to delay discussion to a later date. While the majority of the 
conversation was recorded, there is an approximately one-minute gap in the audio. Ultimately, 
the Board decided to delay discussion of the complaint referenced during the Selectmen meeting. 
As the three Board members were departing, Chair Ritchie stated that he was going to a 
restaurant called the Hubbardston Pizza Palace. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of public bodies be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public. G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 20(a)-(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a 
"meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is, in turn, defined as, "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. However, the definition of 
"deliberation" omits discussions of scheduling or procedural information. Id. For the purposes 
of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a simple majority of the members of the public 
body. Id 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. As 
an initial matter, we note that the Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on February 27, 
2017. However, that notice stated that the Board would attend the Selectmen meeting, not that 
the Board would convene its own meeting afterwards. In any event, we need not reach the issue 
of whether the discussion following the Selectmen meeting was proper, as it involved only two 
of the Board members. Because Mr. Robinson was outside the meeting room for much of the 
conversation, there was less than a quorum present. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. When Mr. Robinson 
returned to the room, the conversation concerned procedural matters, such as whether to convene 
5 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board's meeting notice lacked sufficient detail. Topics must be 
listed on meeting notices with sufficient detail to reasonably advise members of the public as to what the body plans 
to discuss. 940 CMR 29.03(b). Here, the notice stated that the Board would attend the Board of Selectmen meeting, 
but it provided no information as to what matters the Board anticipated discussing. We take this opportunity to 
remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law with respect to the required detail in meeting 
notices. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
a discussion on another day. Accordingly, this did not constitute deliberation. See id. While 
Chair Ritchie stated that he was going to a restaurant following the meeting, he did not solicit the 
other Board members to join him. Chair Ritchie stated to our office that no other Board 
members accompanied him to the restaurant. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
public body's version of the facts. See OML 2013-73. Accordingly, we find that the Board did 
not deliberate outside of a noticed meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
ti/JCpr-
Kevin W. Mangafiaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of open Government 
cc: Christine Bolduc 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 