===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
June 2, 2015 
OML 2015-77 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street 
Springfield, MA 01103 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coyle: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Robert Bolduc, dated March 20, 2015, alleging 
that the Southwick Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 19, 2015, and the 
Board responded by letter dated March 11, 2015. In his complaint, Mr. Bolduc alleges that the 
Board engaged in deliberation by e-mail.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed several e-mails sent and 
received by the Board and the Southwick Health Inspector, Thomas FitzGerald, between April 
2013 and December 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. Inspector FitzGerald is not a member of the Board. At issue are 
several e-mails sent between April 2013 and December 2014 concerning a food service permit 
and septic system inspection for a store owned by Mr. Bolduc. 
On April 26, 2013, Inspector FitzGerald forwarded an e-mail to Board member Jerry 
Azia. The e-mail contained an opinion from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental 
1 In the request for further review, the complainant raises allegations that were not contained in the original 
complaint. Specifically, Mr. Bolduc suggests that the Board failed to record in its minutes a vote that took place 
during a December 18, 2014 meeting of the Board. Because this issue was not raised in the original complaint, we 
decline to review it now. See OML 2011-44. A public body must be allowed an opportunity to investigate and take 
appropriate remedial action with regard to all violations alleged. 
===PAGE 2===
Protection regarding regulations governing septic systems. Inspector Fitzgerald's e-mail states, 
"This is what Bolduc is going to use to try to persuade us." It does not appear that Mr. Azia 
responded to this e-mail. Later that same day. Inspector FitzGerald forwarded the e-mail to the 
two other Board members. Board member Casimir Tryba replied to Inspector FitzGerald, stating 
that he would abstain from any conversation and vote on this topic. This e-mail was sent only to 
Inspector FitzGerald. On April 29, 2013, Inspector FitzGerald e-mailed Mr. Tryba, saying 
simply, "Yes I know." 
On September 10, 2013, Inspector FitzGerald forwarded an e-mail to all three Board 
members. This e-mail concerned changes that Pride Stores planned to make to an existing 
building plan. The text of Inspector FitzGerald's e-mail to the Board is simply, "FYI." 
On October 2, 2013, Inspector FitzGerald forwarded an e-mail to all three Board 
members concerning the construction of a septic system at a Pride Stores location. Mr. Tryba 
then sent an e-mail solely to Inspector FitzGerald, stating that he "will abstain from any vote or 
discussion" on this matter. Inspector FitzGerald then e-mailed Mr. Tryba, stating, "Yes of 
course." Inspector FitzGerald stated to Mr. Tryba that he may refer the matter of the septic 
system to an attorney. Also on October 2, 2013, Inspector FitzGerald forwarded an e-mail to the 
entire Board from the Department of Environmental Protection ("DEP") explaining requirements 
for complying with state environmental regulations. Inspector FitzGerald's e-mail read, "A little 
state back up." It does not appear that any Board members replied to the group as a whole. 
Board member Jerry Azia e-mailed Inspector FitzGerald directly, suggesting that the e-mail be 
forwarded to an engineer. 
On December 5, 2014, Inspector FitzGerald forwarded an e-mail to all three Board 
members. The e-mail outlines a dispute between Mr. Bolduc and Inspector FitzGerald. The e-
mail contained one message from the Inspector to the Board: "Here we go again!" Mr. Azia 
responded to Inspector FitzGerald. The other Board members were not copied on Mr. Azia's e-
mail, nor does it appear that they responded to Inspector FitzGerald in their own right. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is 
defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at the a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. Expression of an opinion on matters within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of 
a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2014-
148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Here, the complaint alleges that the e-mails cited above constituted deliberation by the 
Board that should have occurred during a properly noticed meeting. Inspector FitzGerald is not a 
member of the Board. Inspector FitzGerald is an individual public employee who is not a 
member of a public body, thus he was not required to comply with the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2013-14; OML 2012-79. Further, while an individual who is not a member of a public 
body may facilitate violation of the Open Meeting Law by those who are subject to its 
requirements, we find that did not occur here. Several of Inspector FitzGerald's emails to the 
Board reached a quorum, but these messages were one-way communications from a non-member 
to the Board, rather than communication between or among a quorum. We therefore find that 
none of the e-mails sent by Inspector FitzGerald to the Board violated the law. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. Furthermore, none of the e-mails sent by the Board members violated the law. Both Mr. 
Azia and Mr. Tryba sent e-mails to Inspector FitzGerald without copying the other Board 
members. Because this did not constitute discussion among a quorum of the Board members, it 
was not improper deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, §18. Accordingly, we find no Open Meeting 
Law violation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Robert Bolduc 
Southwick Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 