===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
wvv\v.mass.gov/ago 
April 6, 2018 
OML 2018-49 
Mark W. Haddad 
Town Manager 
Town of Groton 
173 Main St. 
Groton, MA 01450 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Haddad: 
This office received three complaints from Alan Hoch alleging that the Groton Board 
of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first 
complaint was filed with the Board on November 22, 2017, and alleges that the Board held an 
executive session on October 23, 2017 that was not legally justified. The Board responded to 
the complaint by letter dated December 12, 2017, and the complaint was filed with our office 
on January 11, 2018. The second complaint was filed with the Board on December 8, 2017, 
and alleges that the town manager facilitated an unlawful deliberation.1 The Board responded 
to the complaint by letter dated December 19, 2017, and the complaint was filed with our 
office on January 11, 2018. The third complaint was filed with the Board on December 11, 
2017, and alleges that the Board held an executive session on October 10, 2017 that was not 
legally justified. The Board responded to the complaint by letter dated December 19, 2017, 
and the complaint was filed with our office on January 12, 2018. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session on two occasions for an unjustified purpose. We find no 
violation with respect to the remaining allegation. In reaching a determination, we reviewed 
the original complaints, the Board's responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the now public executive session 
minutes from the Board's October 10, 2017 and October 23, 2017 meetings. Finally, we 
spoke with the complainant by telephone on February 22, 2018. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Indian Hill Music School planned to construct a 
facility in Groton. The Town requires a building permit fee of 1.2% of the cost of 
construction to allow a project to proceed. During an October 5, 2017 meeting with Town 
representatives, the School's project manager reportedly informed the Town that it intended to 
cancel all or part of the project if the Town would not reduce the building permit fee. 
On the morning of October 10, 2017, Town Manager Mark Haddad sent an email to 
the Board members attaching a spreadsheet, with the subject: "Re: Outline of Agenda for 
Executive Session on Indian Hill_Do Not Reply to All." In the text of the email, he wrote 
that "In addition to this information, [Board member] Alison [Manugian] has prepared the 
attached spreadsheet as a way to determine building permit value. I found this to be very 
helpful and interesting. I look forward to the discussion tonight." The attached spreadsheet 
included both numerical information comparing construction and permit costs of recent 
projects in Groton as well as the author's opinions and recommendations. For example, the 
spreadsheet includes the following: "Since the value based on anticipated construction cost 
appears to be a more uniform method, I recommend using this for the Indian Hill project," 
and "given the financial realities of a project of this magnitude, it is understandable that the 
applicant might prefer to structure these payments over time; this is a more appealing 
alternative to the Town of Groton as well as it provides a predictable annual revenue, rather 
than a single large payment." 
During an October 10, 2017 Board meeting, the Board entertained a motion by Board 
member Joshua Degen to enter into executive session, "pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21(6) 
— to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real estate, as the chair declares that an 
open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." 
Following a roll call vote, the Board entered into executive session by a vote of 4 to 1. 
During the executive session, the Board discussed the School's request for a reduced permit 
fee. The Board considered that the permit fee of 1.2% is calculated out of the anticipated 
construction project cost, however the School had not provided estimated costs. After several 
motions to resolve the issue failed, the Board voted 3-2 to set the permit fee at $500,000. The 
Board then voted unanimously to direct the Town Manger and a Board representative to 
negotiate with the School for a permit payment of $500,000 with an interest rate of 1.25% 
compounded annually. 
The minutes also provide the following: 
[Board member Becky] Pine - in conjunction with the OML issue discussed at 5pm 
the shared spreadsheet/email from A. Manugian is an OML concern. Lauren Goldberg 
(counsel) reviewed J. Petropoulos concern and personal opinions/names etc should be 
removed in the future. The email and spreadsheet shall be included in the minutes of 
2 
===PAGE 3===
this executive session meeting. Consensus of the board is that this is a good remedy 
and plan should be shared at an open meeting. 
The Board met again on October 23, 2017, and voted 4 to 0 to enter into executive 
session "Pursuant to M.G.L., c. 30A, §21(a)(6) - 'To consider the purchase, exchange, lease 
or value of real estate, if the chair declares than an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body." In executive session. Town Manager 
Haddad updated the Board about his discussion with the School concerning the building 
permit fee. Town Manager Haddad asked the Board to consider approving a $400,000 
building permit fee. The Board then discussed the proposal, though did not vote on it in 
executive session. The Board then voted unanimously to adjourn the executive session and 
return to open session. After discussing a few other topics in open session, the Board turned 
to the School project. Town Manager Haddad asked the Board to approve a $400,000 
building permit fee for the School. Following a brief discussion about the process, the Board 
voted 4 to 1 to approve the request. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board's October 10, 2017 and October 23, 2017 Executive Session 
Discussions Were Not Appropriate for Executive Session. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The 
exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly 
construed. See McRea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008). The public body 
bears the burden of demonstrating applicability of the relevant exception as the reason for the 
executive session. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wavland, 455 
Mass. 561, 566 (2009). One such executive session purpose permits a public body to consider 
"the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). 
The Board entered into executive session on two occasions to consider a request by 
the Indian Hill Music School for a reduction in the building permit fee for construction of its 
new facility in Groton.2 The building permit fee is calculated based on anticipated 
construction costs. In this case, it is not related to the purchase, lease, exchange, or value of 
real property. Rather, its related to costs of construction. Executive Session Purpose 6, 
narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in executive session to protect its 
negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the 
value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
2 The complaint filed with our office alleges that the Board did not have the legal authority to approve a 
reduction in the building permit fee. Because this allegation is beyond the scope of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review it. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003). 
While construction costs may be a valid topic of discussion where the discussion implicates 
the public body's negotiation position with respect to the purchase, exchange, or value of real 
estate, it was not in these instances. Here, the Board held an interest in the building permit, 
not the property or buildings themselves. The Board's negotiation with the Indian Hill School 
for a reduction in the building permit fee was not related to the Board's interest in the 
School's land or in the constraction itself. Rather, the Board considered the request to reduce 
the building permit fee in its capacity as the issuer of the permit. 
II. The Board did Not Intentionally Deliberate When the Town Manager 
Distributed a Document that Expressed the Opinions of Board Members. 
"Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body 
on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The definition of 
"deliberation" excludes "the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body's 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2015-33.3 A lawful 
deliberation may only occur during a noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. 
On October 10, 2017, the town manager forwarded to the Board a spreadsheet created 
by one of the Board members for consideration at its meeting that evening. While the 
spreadsheet mostly contained numerical comparisons, which would be appropriate to 
distribute prior to a meeting as a report to be discussed, it also included some opinions by the 
author about how the Town should consider the issue of the building permit. A staff member 
or other non-public body member cannot lawfully facilitate deliberation. See OML 2014-80; 
OML 2013-186. Here, the town manager shared a document with the Board that included 
opinions expressed by a Board member. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, it appears that the 
Board member who created the spreadsheet did so for the benefit of the town manager, and it 
does not appear that the author intended to distribute the spreadsheet to the Board, nor did she 
ask the town manager to do so. The town manager should have distributed the spreadsheet at 
a meeting, or sent by email a version that did not contain any express opinions of the Board-
member author. See Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, SJC-12353, slip op. (Mass. 
April 5, 2018). Because the author did not intend to distribute the spreadsheet to the Board, 
we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding discussions in 
executive session that were not appropriate for executive session. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance, and caution the Board that a future similar violation may be 
considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law, While the complainant requests 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openineeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
that we include an order to nullify the Board's October 23, 2017 decision regarding the 
building permit fee, we decline to do so because the Board's vote occurred in open session. 
While the public was not afforded the opportunity to witness much of the Board's 
deliberations that led to the public vote, we conclude that the Board's act to publicly release 
the executive session minutes provides an adequate remedy, along with this order of 
compliance as it applies to future conduct. The complainant may still seek nullification along 
with three registered voters by filing an action to enforce the Open Meeting Law in superior 
court. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Groton Board of Selectmen 
Alan Hoch 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 