===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 5, 2019 
OML 2019-95
Paul R. DeRensis, Esq.
Brooks & DeRensis 
111 Devonshire Street, Suite 800 
Boston, MA 02109
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney DeRensis:
This office received a complaint from Jack Petropoulos on September 4, alleging that the 
Groton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 6, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 21. The complaint alleges that the Board has a 
practice of including on its meeting notices a recurring and lengthy list of “on-going issues,” 
most of which the Board does not actually anticipate discussing at any given meeting, thus 
failing to adequately provide the public with notice of the topics to be discussed.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, 
although we express concern with the Board’s practices and offer guidance to ensure future 
compliance. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the request for further review of the complaint, and the Board’s 
supplemental response dated September 21. We also reviewed the notices and minutes for Board 
meetings held on June 18, June 25, July 9, and July 30, as well as video of each of those 
meetings.2
FACTS
We summarize the facts as follows. On June 13, the Board posted notice for a meeting to 
be held on June 18; on June 20, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 25; on 
July 3, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 9; and on July 26, the Board 
posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 30. Each meeting notice included the topic “Select
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Videos of the Board’s meetings are available online at www.thegrotonchannel.org.

===PAGE 2===
Board’s Agenda Schedule” and beneath it several specific topics, each followed by the phrase 
“Votes May Be Taken.” Separately, each meeting notice included the topic “On-going Issues - 
Votes and Action May Be Taken” and beneath it a list of 19-20 specific topics, which were 
substantially identical on each of the meeting notices reviewed.
Some of the specific recurring topics that were listed under “On-going Issues” were also 
listed under “Select Board’s Agenda Schedule” for individual meetings. For example, each of 
the meeting notices included the topic “Prescott School Disposition/RFP” as one of the many 
topics listed under “On-going Issues.” The July 30 meeting notice additionally included the 
topic “Update from Town Manager on Prescott School RFP - Vote May Be Taken” under 
“Select Board’s Agenda Schedule.” There were several other instances where a recurring topic 
under “On-going Issues” was separately listed under “Select Board’s Agenda Schedule.”
At each meeting, the Town Manager reviewed the list of items under “On-going Issues,” 
but for the most part, the Board did not engage in substantive discussions regarding those topics, 
unless the topic was also separately listed and previously discussed under “Select Board’s 
Agenda Schedule.” Instead, the Town Manager either provided a very brief update on an item, 
reported that the item was previously discussed (during the “Select Board’s Agenda Schedule” 
portion of the meeting), or stated “no update.” Occasionally, a member of the Board asked a 
question of the Town Manager, or the Board engaged in a brief discussion, regarding a topic 
listed under “On-going Issues,” but the Board did not take action on these topics. We note for 
illustration purposes that at the June 18 meeting, the Board’s entire consideration of the 19 topics 
listed under “On-going Issues” lasted less than four minutes. At the July 30 meeting, the Board’s 
entire consideration of the 19 topics listed under “On-going Issues” lasted approximately five 
minutes. The Board’s consideration of all of the topics listed under “On-going Issues” at its June 
25 and July 9 meetings lasted approximately 24 and 14 minutes, respectively.
DISCUSSION
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.3
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by including the 
same recurring list of topics under “On-going Issues,” even when the Chair does not reasonably 
anticipate discussing many of the items. The complaint asserts that in doing so, the meeting 
notices fail to provide reasonable notice to members of the public regarding items to be 
discussed, and do not allow members of the public or the media to make informed decisions
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
about whether to attend a meeting based on whether an item of interest is likely to be discussed. 
Indeed, we have frequently stated that the Open Meeting Law requires that a notice list topics 
with sufficient specificity so that the public can decide “whether to attend the meeting” and 
observe the discussion regarding that topic. OML 2018-22; see also, e.g.. OML 2016-92; OML 
2016-43; OML 2015-74.
We are mindful of the Board’s concerns that it risks violating the Open Meeting Law if it 
engages in discussion of a topic that is not listed on the meeting notice, and therefore the Board 
has taken an approach of being over-inclusive on its meeting notices. We also find that although 
the Board did not engage in any substantive discussion or deliberation regarding most of the 
“On-going Issues” listed on the meeting notices, the Town Manager did address each issue at 
each meeting, either by providing a brief update or reporting that there was no update.
Therefore, we find it appropriate to include these topics on the meeting notice. Members of the 
public may be interested in attending the meetings even for the purpose of hearing the brief 
update or learning that there is no update on a given topic. Indeed, we have recommended that 
public bodies avoid including general topics on their meeting notices such as “Administrator’s 
Report” or “Reports from Department Heads,” and instead make reasonable efforts to ascertain 
what the particular official actually plans to report. See OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19. For 
these reasons, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by including on its 
meeting notices a recurring list of topics that are briefly addressed but not substantively 
discussed.
Nonetheless, we express concern that the Board’s practices will not provide sufficient 
notice to the public for when the Board does actually anticipate engaging in substantive 
discussion or taking action on a particular topic. We have said that, in general, a public body 
need not anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, and therefore need 
not indicate on a meeting notice that it will take action or hold a vote on a particular topic. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; 
OML 2014-38. However, we also have said that when a public body has repeatedly discussed a 
posted topic over the course of several meetings without ever taking action on the topic, the 
public may not reasonably foresee that action or a vote will be taken at any given meeting unless 
additional detail is provided on the meeting notice. OML 2017-186. In such situations, the 
public body should specifically indicate on its notice that it plans to take action and vote on a 
particular topic. Id. The problem here is that the Board already includes on each meeting notice 
the general statement that “Votes and Action May Be Taken” on “On-going Issues,” despite the 
fact that the Board’s practice is that it does not actually take votes or action on topics listed under 
“On-going Issues,” unless those topics are also separately listed under “Select Board’s Agenda 
Schedule.” We find, therefore, that the Board’s notices would not sufficiently apprise the public 
of when action or a vote is truly anticipated. We recommend that the Board cease its practice of 
stating “Votes and Action May Be Taken” for every single topic, and instead reserve that 
notation only for topics where a vote or action is anticipated.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law, although we recommend that the Board revise its practices with regard to its meeting
3

===PAGE 4===
notices as set forth above. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Jack Petropoulos
Groton Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
