===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 11, 2013 
OML 2013 — 29 
Michael P. McCarron, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of West Newbury 
381 Main Street 
West Newbury, MA 01985 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McCarron: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Atwood, dated June 26, 2012, alleging 
that the West Newbury Community Preservation Committee (the "Committee"), and 
individual Committee members Jane Wild, Ann Bardeen, and Marge Peterson, violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about May 16, 2012, and the Committee responded to the original complaint 
by letter dated June 5, 2012. 1  In his complaint, Mr. Atwood alleges that Committee members 
Wild, Bardeen and Peterson engaged in improper deliberations by email between April 25, 
2012 and May 7, 2012 (hereinafter "the Emails"). 
We reviewed the May 16, 2012 complaint; your June 5, 2012 response to the 
complaint on behalf of the Committee;2  and the June 26, 2012 complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the emails at issue. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
sending electronic communications discussing public business within its jurisdiction to a 
quorum of the Committee. 
I  We remind the Committee that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town 
Administrator or Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney 
General's regulations require that the entire Committee first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). It does not appear that this occurred here. 2  For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Committee consists of seven members, representing the Board of Selectmen, the Historical 
Commission, the Conservation Commission, the Planning Board, the Parks and Recreation 
Commission, the Housing Authority and the community-at-large. The Committee was 
created by the Community Preservation Act (CPA) to make recommendations to the 
community at Town Meeting regarding how to spend Community Preservation funds (which 
consist of a real estate tax surcharge and state matching funds). 
On February 13, 2012, in response to Committee member Thomas Flaherty's email to 
a quorum of the Committee expressing his thoughts on topics to be discussed at an upcoming 
meeting, Attorney McCarron sent an email to the Committee members cautioning them about 
improper deliberation by email. Attorney McCarron wrote, "Tom: It is appropriate for you to 
provide your thoughts as issues for discussion for the meeting. However, you should not 
solicit email responses since that would be considered deliberations and, as such, a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. Discussion of your ideas should be reserved for the public 
meeting." 
During its April 19, 2012 meeting, the Committee decided to present a report at Town 
Meeting, scheduled for April 30, 2012, to explain the purpose and funding of the CPA, update 
the Town on fund balances and Committee activities, and introduce CPA-related articles on 
the warrant. Because the Committee did not plan to meet prior to the Town Meeting, the 
Committee assigned the task of preparing and presenting the report to Committee member 
Ann Bardeen. In the course of drafting the report, Ms. Bardeen sought input by email from 
her fellow Committee members. A description of these emails follows. 
On April 25, 2012, Ms. Bardeen sent an email to Warren Sproul, West Newbury 
Finance Director, and copied the entire Committee. In her email, she requested certain 
fmancial information from Mr. Sproul in order to prepare the report, including the "Project 
Balances" and the "Projected Balances," asking "if Articles 7 and 8 pass..., from which 
accounts will they be deducted, and what will the new balances be?" Ms. Bardeen then 
speculated about reserve amounts in various accounts being incorrect in two monthly finance 
reports and asked about a separate fund balance for the Committee's administrative expenses. 
("Email 1") 
Two hours later, Ms. Bardeen sent another email to the entire Committee with an 
attached first draft of a report for Town Meeting. Ms. Bardeen stated, "Nile portions in red 
are things I'd especially like your input and comments on, but all of it is open to change" and 
then requested the Committee to "get back to me asap." In the attachment, Ms. Bardeen 
arranged an outline of the presentation under the following headings: "Purpose & Funding" 
(of the CPA); "Fund Balances" (of the Committee); "Committee activity since Fall Town 
Meeting in October 2011;" and "Articles on the Warrants" (two articles listed were a result of 
applications submitted to the Committee). Below these headings, Ms. Bardeen posed a 
variety of comments and questions aimed at filling in details, including whether the 
Committee should discuss certain topics, such as the outcome of an approval of the ballot 
2 
===PAGE 3===
question to reduce CPA funding and proposed Articles 7 and 8. Ms. Bardeen then asked 
when the Committee should present the report during Town Meeting. ("Email 2") 
Later that day, Ms. Peterson sent an email to Mr. Atwood and copied the rest of the 
Committee (except Ms. Capo), attaching a revised draft of the report. Ms. Peterson added 
additional comments and questions in capital letters and offered her understanding of the 
Committee's collective position on several topics, such as the CPC's agreement with another 
public body's opposition to the ballot vote to reduce CPA funding. Ms. Peterson also asked 
whether the report should include "Sullivan Property Ad Hoc Committee Memorandum" and 
whether this was considered an official application to the Committee. In conclusion, Ms. 
Peterson opined about the appropriate time to present the report during Town Meeting. 
("Email 3") Immediately following that email, Ms. Peterson sent an email to Ms. Bardeen 
and copied the rest of the Committee, asking Ms. Bardeen whether she received her 
comments on the first draft of the report. ("Email 4") 
In response to Email 3, Ms. Wild sent an email to Ms. Peterson on April 26, 2012 and 
copied the rest of the Committee (except Ms. Capo), stating, "I can't add anything above what 
Marge has done." Then, Ms. Wild commented on certain budgetary changes, noting "[y]ou 
should play up the changes in the recreational area." In response to Ms. Peterson's query 
about an application to the Committee, Ms. Wild added, "Sullivan was exploratory that never 
got it together." Ms. Wild included the latest version of the attachment that was modified by 
Ms. Peterson. ("Email 5") On April 27, 2012, Ms. Bardeen sent an email to the entire 
Committee and attached a second draft of the report containing the "incorporated 
suggestions" from Ms. Peterson and Ms. Wild. Ms. Bardeen again invited the Committee to 
respond. The attachment included additional comments and questions, including a statement 
of the Committee's collective opinion on its opposition to the upcoming question on the ballot 
to reduce the CPA surcharge from 3% to 0.5%, the financial impact if certain warrant articles 
were approved, and offered her opinion on the most "neutral" time to present the report. Ms. 
Bardeen described the Committee's recent activity on its application process, stating, IA* 
will continue this work, and plan to have some specific changes to tell you about in the fall." 
("Email 6") 
Finally, on May 4, 2012, Ms. Bardeen sent an email to the Committee (with a copy to 
Mr. Atwood), stating "Tom and I are looking for people to hold signs in support of keeping 
3% CPA...[p]lease reply to all and let us know..." ("Email 7") 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore requires that 
"[e]xcept as provided in [G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)], all meetings of a public body shall be open to 
the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). "Meeting" is defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
"Deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. (emphasis added) 
We find that, with the exception of Emails 4 and 7, the other five emails constituted 
improper deliberation outside of an open meeting. In Email 1, Ms. Bardeen discussed items 
of public business within the Committee's jurisdiction; namely, the Committee's fund 
balances. The comments, questions and revisions in the email exchange regarding the draft 
report discussing ongoing Committee activities, the Committee's collective opinion, and 
various proposed Warrant Articles that potentially affected the Committee's budget were also 
matters of public business within the Committee's jurisdiction. Additionally, the Committee 
members' discussion of the strategic timing of the presentation itself was tantamount to 
sharing policy viewpoints on matters directly related to the Committee's business. See OML 
2011-14; 3  see also OML 2013-6 ("Mlle manner in which the Board chooses to present its 
decisions and proposals to the public is of public interest and constitutes 'public business 
within its jurisdiction.") Therefore, the opinions, comments and revisions in Emails 1, 2, 3, 5 
and 6 should not have been shared with a quorum of the Committee's members outside of a 
properly posted open meeting. 
We find that email 4, however, was not an improper deliberation because its content 
was limited to a purely administrative matter, namely whether a prior email was received. 
See OML2012-63. This email therefore fell within an exception to the definition of 
"deliberation." Email 7 also was not an improper deliberation because it solicited Committee 
members to participate in a demonstration, which is considered a form of individual speech, 
rather than a matter of public business in the Committee's jurisdiction. See OML 2012-64 
("[s]tatements made by public body members for political purposes that do not involve 
matters presently or likely to come under consideration by the public body in the future are 
not communications on public business within the jurisdiction of the body, regardless of 
whether they are made by an individual public body member or by the members 
collectively.") 
The Open Meeting Law gives the Attorney General the authority to determine 
"whether the public body, 1 or more of the members, or both, are responsible" for a violation. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). Here, Ms. Bardeen initiated the improper electronic communications, 
however several other members sent responses to a quorum of the Committee. Therefore, we 
find that the Committee as a whole violated the Law. However, we find that the Committee's 
violation was not intentional, but rather the result of a misunderstanding of the Law's 
requirements. Attorney McCarron's email to the Committee appropriately cautioned against 
solicitation of email responses. However, his statement that it was appropriate to "provide 
your thoughts as issues for discussion for the meeting" via email may have created the 
misleading impression that the type of conduct that occurred here was permissible. While a 
member of a public body may distribute a document for discussion at a meeting by email, the 
member may not include his or her opinion in the document. See OML 2012-84. Expression 
of an opinion on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See  OML 2012-15; OML 2012-
8; OML 2011-37. 
In its response, the Committee asserted that the email exchange was not an improper 
deliberation because the draft report merely sought factual information from fellow 
Committee members in an effort to disclose general information about the Committee to the 
Town. We disagree with this assertion; however we acknowledge that determining which 
tasks are merely "administrative" can be challenging, therefore we advise public bodies to 
avoid communicating over email at all except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling 
meetings and distributing documents created by non-members to be discussed at meetings, 
provided that no opinions are expressed. OML 2013-4; OML 2013-5. This letter is intended 
to provide future guidance to the Committee. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by sending electronic 
communications discussing public business within its jurisdiction to a quorum of the 
Committee. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. Additionally, we order the Committee to view the video training on the Open 
Meeting Law available at the Attorney General's website, and certify in writing to our office, 
within thirty (30) days after receiving this determination, that all of its members have done so. 
Finally, we order the Committee to publicly disclose the improper email communications at 
the Committee's next meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts 
in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Thomas Atwood 
West Newbury Community Preservation Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 