===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-195 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Miilis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Judith Margulies on October 17, alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Flealth (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 9, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 6. In her 
complaint, Ms. Margulies alleges that, on July 11, the Board convened an unnoticed meeting 
immediately following its regularly scheduled meeting and discussed topics during this 
portion of the meeting that were not listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Board's July 11 meeting.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant was the chair of the Board at the time 
of this meeting. On October 18, our office issued OML 2017-163 resolving a complaint 
regarding the same Board meeting held on July 11. In that determination, our office found 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in the noticed location, 
moving the meeting to a different location to meet concurrently with another public body, and 
then reconvening its meeting in the location that it had originally convened an hour earlier. 
Because we addressed this issue in that determination, we limit our review to the allegation 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 The video-recording is available at https://livestream.com/WACA-TVAshland/events/4739881/videos/. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
that was not cited in that complaint. Namely, we review whether the Board discussed topics 
during this reconvened meeting that were not listed on the meeting notice. 
The meeting notice, posted on July 6, listed four headings. Under the heading, "Board 
Administrative Tasks," the Board listed five items, which included discussion of an Open 
Meeting Law complaint; scheduling the Board's participation at the Farmer's Market; 
approving certain meeting minutes and scheduling a list of discussion topics for the next two 
months. Those topics included an anticipated discussion time. For example, one such topic 
listed was, "Review and possibly adopt regulation for the temporary use of chemical 
(portable) toilets, with public hearing [60 minutes]." 
The Board convened the meeting at 6:10 PM in the Board of Selectmen's meeting 
room, conferred briefly about the agenda and recessed the meeting until 7 PM to meet 
concurrently with the Nyanza Advisory Committee. Upon reconvening with the Nyanza 
Advisory Committee, the Board immediately voted to return to the Board of Selectmen's 
meeting room. The complainant and Board member KG Narayana both voted against moving 
the meeting and remained in the Nyanza Advisory Committee meeting downstairs. Upstairs, 
Vice Chair Ronald Etskovitz called the meeting back to order and Board member Jon 
Fetherston ran this portion of the meeting, which lasted approximately one and one-half 
hours. 
During this portion of the meeting, the Board began with citizen's participation and a 
report of the Health Agent before following the list of topics that were posted on the notice. 
When the Board reached the "Board Administrative Tasks" category, it discussed some of the 
topics listed, but did not discuss the entire list. The Board then discussed three topics that 
were not listed on the notice: the Board's need for more staffing; voting to appoint Board 
member Mary Mortenson as liaison to the Dementia Friendly Community Program; and the 
formation of a marijuana task force, a topic that had been previously discussed by the Board. 
In response to this complaint, the Board reposted and discussed the topics during its meetings 
held on August 15; August 28 and September 19. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 
2015-35.3 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complainant alleges that the Board discussed topics during its July 11 meeting 
that were not listed on the meeting notice. The complainant notes that, as chair, she 
deliberately decided not to list those topics on the notice for that meeting due to time 
constraints. We find that, during its reconvened meeting, the Board indeed discussed several 
topics that were not listed on the meeting notice. However, the Board chair specifically 
declined to add those topics to the notice. The Open Meeting Law requires an examination of 
the chair's intent in drafting the agenda. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Where the chair of a 
public body, or her agent, declines to add a topic to the meeting notice, it is not a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law when someone else introduces that topic at a meeting. See OML 
2014-110; OML 2013-197. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing those topics during the reconvened meeting. We acknowledge 
that the Board's discussion of topics that were not posted on the notice, while technically 
permissible, certainly violated the spirit of the Open Meeting Law to the public's detriment. 
We commend the Board for taking remedial action in response to this complaint and we 
encourage the Board to refrain from such actions in the future. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Judith Margulies 
Ashland Board of Health 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 