===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS  02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
January 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 6 
Christopher I. Brown 
Chair 
Wayland Board of Public Works 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Brown: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated March 23, 2012, alleging that 
the Wayland Board of Public Works (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 1, 2012, and 
the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated February 22, 2012. In his 
complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that Board member Mike Lowery sent two emails "to a quorum of 
the Board expressing his opinions on matters of public business within the Board's jurisdiction." 1  
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the February 1, 2012 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's February 22, 2012 response; and the March 23, 2012 complaint filed with our 
office. We also reviewed email communications between members of the Board that were 
provided by the complainant and the Board. 
Following our review, we find that Mr. Lowery's emails violated the Open Meeting Law 
because they constitute deliberations that should have taken place at an open meeting. However, 
we do not find a violation by the Board as .a whole because there is no evidence that any Board 
member responded substantively to Mr. Lowery's emails. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Wayland Board of Public Works is a public body consisting of five members. Michael Lowery 
is a member, and Christopher Browne  is the Chair. According to the 2011 Town of Wayland 
Annual Report ("Annual Report"), the Board is "an elected body . . . responsible for overseeing 
and setting policy for [Department of Public Works] operations." The Annual Report provides a 
I  Mr. Harris raises concerns regarding a third email in his complaint with our office. Because Mr. Harris did not cite 
this email in his initial complaint with the Board, we decline to review it. 
2  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
list of Board initiatives, stating that in 2011, the Board "restructured the town's water rates and 
capital fees" and "formally adopted and implemented th[e] [Wellhead Protection Plan] following 
a public hearing." 
On December 15, 2011, Mr. Lowery sent an email to the Town Administrator, Frederic 
Turkington, and the Director of the Department of Public Works, Don Ouellette; he copied the 
four other Board members on the email. In the email, Mr. Lowery raises concerns regarding 
public perception of water rates in Wayland and discusses methods of "convincing the voters to 
create an enterprise fund . . ." He proposes ways to "explain and justify our rates to the 
ratepayers," and includes a list of "possible benefits of this [enterprise] fund to voters." Mr. 
Lowery writes, "If we choose to bring this issue to the next Town Meeting: [o]ur responses 
should be simply and cogently delivered, with explanatory graphics, using projection equipment, 
in no more than five minutes." (emphasis in original). 
Mr. Lowery's email prompted an exchange between Mr. Turkington, Mr. Ouellette, Mr. 
Lowery and Chair Brown. Chair Brown was the only Board member to respond to Mr. Lowery's 
emails, and his email dealt exclusively with scheduling. 
On January 24, 2012, Mr. Lowery sent an email to Mr. Ouellette and the four other Board 
members, and he copied numerous town employees and committee members on the email. In 
the email, Mr. Lowery discusses and provides a link to FEMA's "Wayland Hazard Mitigation 
Plan" and notes an engineering question the Board "might consider how to answer at a future 
meeting . . ." In reference to the "Wayland Hazard Mitigation Plan," Mr. Lowery states, "There 
is material in this document relevant to well protection, and I suggest we consider referencing it 
in the resource section of the [Wellhead Protection Plan]." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore requires that "[e]xcept 
as provided in [G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)], all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Meeting is defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation is defined as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. 
Mr. Lowery's December 15, 2011 and January 24, 2012 emails constitute deliberations 
outside of an open meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The emails were sent to a 
quorum of the Board's members and discuss matters within the Board's jurisdiction — namely 
Wayland's water rates and Wayland's Wellhead Protection Plan. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In its 
response to the complaint, the Board states that, "Without the participation of others in an 
electronic or written exchange of views, deliberation has not occurred." However, in previous 
determinations, our office has found that any written communication, including emails, sent by 
2 
===PAGE 3===
an individual member of a public body to a quorum of the public body concerning matters within 
that body's jurisdiction is a deliberation, even where no other member replied. See OML 2011-
35; OML 2011-37; and OML 2012-8.3  Because there was no substantive response from any 
Board member, however, we do not find that the Board as a whole violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
Mr. Lowery contends that his emails do not violate the Open Meeting Law because they 
do not discuss public business within the Board's jurisdiction, and therefore are not 
deliberations. The December 15, 2011 email considers how the Board might shape public 
perception of two matters: water rates in Wayland and a related fund proposed by the Board. As 
reflected in the Annual Report, water rates are public business within the Board's jurisdiction. 
Mr. Lowery argues that the email is "not about setting water rates," but instead "how the public 
can be best informed . . . about water expenses and the rationale of a proposed water enterprise 
fund." However, communications about the public presentation of matters within a public 
body's jurisdiction may constitute a deliberation. See OML 2011-20. The manner in which the 
Board chooses to present its decisions and proposals to the public is of public interest and 
constitutes "public business within its jurisdiction." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Although the 
December 15, 2011 email simply copies Board members, it reflects Mr. Lowery's opinion and 
suggestion for policy. It, therefore, does not constitute the kind of administrative task that might 
otherwise exempt a communication with a third party and a quorum of the Board from being a 
deliberation. See OML 2013-4; OML 2013-5. The December 15, 2011 email improperly 
discusses public business within the Board's jurisdiction. 
Mr. Lowery's January 24, 2012 email also discusses two matters within the Board's 
jurisdiction: it (1) proposes Board consideration of adding specific written materials to 
Wayland's Wellhead Protection Plan, with at least a clear implication that Mr. Lowery favors 
such an addition; and (2) poses an engineering question for potential discussion at a future Board 
meeting, without Mr. Lowery expressing an opinion on the question. The Annual Report 
indicates that the Wellhead Protection Plan is a matter within the Board's jurisdiction. Similarly, 
engineering issues to be discussed at a Board meeting constitute public business within the 
Board's jurisdiction. As stated above, beyond administrative tasks such as scheduling a meeting 
or distributing a document that otherwise expresses no opinion, any communication regarding 
public business within a public body's jurisdiction constitutes a deliberation. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Mr. Lowery's email suggesting that the Board consider adding specific written materials to 
Wayland's Wellhead Protection Plan constitutes a deliberation, and does not merely distribute a 
document or propose a topic for consideration at a future meeting without opining upon it. In 
contrast, when noting an engineering question before the Board, Mr. Lowery merely proposes an 
issue for discussion at a future meeting without expressing any opinion on the issue; this 
statement is akin to offering a topic within the exemption for distribution of a meeting agenda 
and therefore does not constitute a deliberation. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. As to the addition of specific 
written materials to the Wellhead Protection Plan, however, the January 24, 2012 email 
improperly discusses public business within the Board's jurisdiction. 
We note that it is often difficult to determine whether communications are administrative 
or substantive in nature. Similarly, it is frequently difficult to evaluate whether an administrative 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
discussion includes an opinion. For this reason, we caution public body members against 
sending emails to a quorum of a public body on public business that may fall within its 
jurisdiction, unless the email simply lists agenda items or distributes documents to be discussed 
during open session. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Mr. Lowery's emails violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, nor do we find 
that Mr. Lowery's violation was intentional. We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and we order the Board to publicly disclose at its next meeting copies of 
the December 15, 2011 and January 24, 2012 emails that resulted in this violation. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 George H. Harris 
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 