===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 7, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 68 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Benjamin Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street  
Springfield MA 01103 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coyle: 
This office received six complaints from Diane Gale on December 6, 2021, alleging that 
the Southwick Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 18, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated November 9.1 In her complaints, Ms. Gale alleges that the 
Board did not specify the candidates for appointment on meeting notices for meetings to be held 
on June 7, July 12, July 26, August 9, September 13, and September 27. As only the allegation 
regarding sufficiency of the notice for the September 27 meeting is timely, we decline to review 
the other five complaints.2 In her sixth complaint, Ms. Gale also alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a meeting prior to the September 27 meeting.3  
In addition, this office received a complaint on December 27 from Dennis Clark, and 
another complaint on December 27 from Maryssa Cook-Obregon, both alleging that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. These complaints were filed with the Board on October 26, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letters dated November 9. In these complaints, Mr. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(3). When an alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered 
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. 
3 The complaints also allege that the Board failed to interview potential candidates for appointment and violated 
several town policies. We note that, even if true, these allegations would not constitute violations of G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Clark and Ms. Cook-Obregon allege that the Board did not specify the candidates for 
appointment on the notice for the September 27 meeting and that the Board deliberated outside 
of a meeting prior to the September 27 meeting.4 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to specify the individual candidates for appointment on the notice for the September 27 meeting. 
We find no violation with respect to the allegations of deliberation outside of a posted meeting. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complainants’ request for further review. We also reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the Board’s September 27 and November 15 meetings. We corresponded by email 
with you and Ms. Gale in February and March of 2022. Finally, we interviewed the Board’s 
Chair, Joseph Deedy, by phone on March 4, 2022. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. For multiple years prior to the meeting in question, the 
Board had appointed members of all public bodies in Southwick for one-year terms, meaning 
that all members were reappointed each year. The Board was subsequently informed that state 
law required many of these appointments to be for three-year terms. The Board therefore 
undertook a process of reappointing many public body members for the remainder of a three-
year term, based on when the member had initially been appointed.  
On September 24, at 10:35 a.m., the Board posted a notice for a September 27 meeting. 
Under the heading “Old Business & Dates to Remember[,]” the notice included the item 
“Appointments for Town Boards/Committees[.]” The notice did not list the names of the 
individuals the Board would consider. Board Vice-Chair Russell Fox and Board Member Doug 
Moglin attend the September 27 meeting, while Chair Joseph Deedy was absent. During the 
meeting, the Board voted to remove, reappoint and newly appoint members to five commissions: 
Agricultural, Conservation, Historical, Lake Management and Lake Management Canal. The 
Board also set term limits for the members who had been previously appointed to one-year 
terms. During this process, Mr. Clark and Ms. Cook-Obregon were removed from their positions 
in error, as both had originally been appointed in 2019, and therefore were entitled to remain in 
their positions until 2022.  
On November 10 at 3:57 p.m., the Board posted a notice for a November 15 meeting. The 
notice listed an item for the Board to discuss the eight Open Meeting Law complaints and take 
remedial action. During the meeting, which was again only attended by Vice-Chair Fox and 
Member Moglin, the Board was advised by Town Counsel that the meeting notice for the 
Board’s September 27 meeting should have included the names of those individuals under 
consideration for appointment, reappointment or removal. The Board adopted a policy that all 
future meeting notices should included this level of specificity. The Board then re-voted on the 
composition of the Agricultural and Conservation Commissions in order to reinstate Mr. Clark 
and Ms. Cook-Obregon.  
 
4 The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to interview potential candidates for appointment and violated 
several town policies. We note that, even if true, these allegations would not constitute violations of G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board failed to specify the individual candidates for appointment on the notice for 
the September 27 meeting. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.5 The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only to 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  
 The complainants allege that the Board failed to list the names of individuals the Board 
would consider regarding appointments, reappointments and removals at the September 27 
meeting. We have consistently stated that the names of interviewees and applicants for 
appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be included on a meeting 
notice. See OML 2019-24; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163. It is also not acceptable for a 
meeting notice to refer members of the public to another location to find the required 
information; such information must be included on or with the notice itself. See Swansea v. 
Maura Healey, Civil Action No. 2017-3269-E (Suffolk Sup. Ct. October 29, 2018); OML 2019-
22. The Board has not claimed that the specific appointments or reappointments were not 
reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the September 27 meeting. We therefore conclude 
that the notice for the Board’s September 27 meeting should have included the names of the 
individuals to be considered by the Board. Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law in this regard. 
2. We find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 
see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172. 
 
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73. A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
 All three of the complainants allege that the Board discussed the numerous appointments, 
re-appointments and removals which were discussed at the September 27 meeting outside of a 
posted meeting. In particular, Ms. Gale asserts that she met with Vice-Chair Fox after the 
September 27 meeting and pressed him about whether he had spoken to other Board members 
ahead of the meeting regarding the appointments, re-appointments and removals. Ms. Gale 
further states that Vice-Chair Fox told her that he spoke to Chair Deedy ahead of the September 
27 meeting, to confirm that Chair Deedy would not attend the meeting and that Chair Deedy 
wished the other two members to proceed with the appointments in the Chair’s absence. When 
we interviewed Chair Deedy, he could not recollect such a conversation with Vice-Chair Fox. 
However, the conversation described by Vice-Chair Fox would not constitute deliberation as the 
conversation was limited to confirming that the Chair would not attend and what items should be 
included on the agenda. See OML 2021-112. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this merely administrative communication between two Board 
members.  
 We further questioned Chair Deedy regarding how the length of term was determined for 
each member of the five commissions. Chair Deedy explained that the Board had been informed 
that all of the public body members in question should have been appointed for 3-year terms. 
The Board therefore undertook a process of reappointing many public body members for the 
remainder of a 3-year term, based on when the member had initially been appointed. Chair 
Deedy asserts that the process of determining the length of the term to which each member 
should be reappointed was undertaken by staff, and therefore the Board’s role at the September 
27 meeting merely was to formally appoint each member for the term length that staff had 
determined. The Board stated in its response, and Chair Deedy reiterated in our interview, that a 
quorum of the Board did not substantively discuss the appointments, reappointments and 
removals for the five commissions outside of the September 27 meeting. Absent evidence to the 
contrary, we credit the Board’s account of the facts. See OML 2022-33; OML 2020-172. 
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, as we find no evidence 
of deliberation outside of a posted meeting.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to specify the individual candidates for appointment on the notice for the September 27 
meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As the Board re-voted at the 
November 15 meeting on the composition of the Agricultural Commission and Conservation 
Commission, in order to reinstate Mr. Clark and Ms. Cook-Obregon, we order no further relief.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Diane Gale (via e-mail: ) 
Dennis Clark (via e-mail:  
Maryssa Cook-Obregon (via e-mail:  
 Southwick Select Board c/o Chair Joseph Deedy (via e-mail  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
