===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 6, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 123 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Brigitta Keuhn 
Plymouth Board of Health 
Public Health Department, 1
st Floor 
26 Court Street 
Plymouth, MA 02360 
 
 
 RE: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Keuhn: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Striar on April 24, 2020, alleging that the 
Plymouth Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 28, and the Board responded by 
letter dated March 11.1 In his complaint, Mr. Striar alleges that the Board improperly posted 
notice of an emergency meeting, as no emergency existed, and that the meeting notice was 
insufficiently detailed.  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the Board’s 
January 31 meeting notice.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On the evening of Thursday, January 30, a Plymouth 
resident called the Board’s Chair and reported that Plymouth restaurant Red Tea Garden smelled 
strongly of smoke.2 The Chair then contacted a contracted food inspector who verified that a fire 
had taken place at Red Tea Garden on January 27. Prior to this point, the Board had not been 
notified of the fire and the Chair was uncertain of the present status of the restaurant and any 
food that was present during the fire.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Early the next morning, the Chair emailed the Department of Public Health’s Director 
and found that the Director would be out of the office until the following Tuesday. After a 
discussion with the Chair of the Select Board, the Chair decided to hold an emergency meeting 
of the Board of Health, approximately 14 hours after the Chair first became aware that food at 
Red Tea Garden may have been exposed to fire and lack of refrigeration. The Board posted its 
emergency meeting notice at 9:35 AM on Friday January 31, for a meeting to be held that same 
day at 10:00 AM. During the 10:00 AM meeting, the Board learned that the Town Manager had 
previously sent another food inspector to Red Tea Garden. The spoiled food was impounded and 
destroyed on the inspector’s orders.   
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board permissibly held an emergency meeting on January 31.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires th at “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In an emergency, a 
public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected 
occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02. The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body. See 
OML 2012-7.3  
 Here, the Board asserts that a n emergency meeting was warranted as the Board sought to 
protect the town’s residents from the possibility of immediate foodborne illness if spoiled food 
were to be served at Red Tea Garden after the fire. We agree. Emergency meetings are reserved 
for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an immediate response. See OML 2017-131, 
OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45. The Chair learned on the evening of January 30 that a fire had 
taken place at Red Tea Garden and that the restaurant still strongly smelled of smoke. Although 
the Town Manager had already sent a food inspector to address the situation at Red Tea Garden, 
the Board was not aware of these remedial measures at the time it posted notice for and held the 
emergency meeting. The Chair also believed that the Director of the Public Health Department 
was unavailable until the following Tuesday, thereby making the Board’s role in protecting 
public health more significant. Given the circumstances, and the perceived immediate threat to 
public health, we believe that the Board acted reasonably in holding an emergency meeting 
because there was a generally unexpected set of circumstances that demanded immediate action. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-58. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
II. The Board’s January 31 meeting notice was sufficiently detailed.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-58. 
 After review of the meeting notice for the Board’s January 31 meeting, we find that the 
meeting notice was sufficiently detailed. The Board’s meeting notice listed one topic, “Discuss 
Red Tea Garden restaurant.” There is no dispute that the Board did indeed discuss the situation at 
Red Tea Garden during its meeting. During the meeting, the Board learned that the Town 
Manager had sent a food inspector to Red Tea Garden and that the spoiled food was impounded 
and destroyed on the inspector’s orders. Therefore, we conclude that the agenda item “Discuss 
Red Tea Garden restaurant” was sufficiently detailed to notify the public that the Board would 
discuss a public health concern regarding Red Tea Garden. The complainant asserts that the 
Board should also have specified the reason why the Board planned to discuss the restaurant. 
Although additional information with respect to the topic may have been useful to the public, in 
these circumstances we find that the notice met the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2017-153. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not v iolate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Striar (via e-mail: ) 
 Plymouth Board of Health c/o Mar garet Coe, Public Health Department A dministrative 
 Assistant (via e-mail: ) 
  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 