===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 16, 2013 
OML 2013-184 
Alice DeLuca, Chair 
Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School Committee 
758 Marrett Road 
Lexington, MA 02421 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. DeLuca: 
This office received a complaint from David Manjarrez, dated July 9, 2013, 
alleging that the Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee 
(the "Committee") and Vice-Chair Jeffrey Stulin violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about April 
17, 2013, and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 23, 
2013.1 In his complaint, Mr. Manjarrez alleges that during its April 9, 2013 executive 
session, Mr. Stulin permitted the Committee to engage in an improper discussion about 
professional competence. 
We reviewed the April 17, 2013 complaint; your May 23, 2013 response, on behalf 
of the Committee; and the July 9, 2013 complaint filed with our office, requesting further 
review. In addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes from 
the April 9, 2013 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We find the facts to be as follows. Because the Board has not released the 
executive session minutes of the meeting discussed, we do not recount their content in full. 
However, we offer a general summary of the discussions below. 
' We granted the Committee's request for an extension. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The employment contract for the School Superintendent, Dr. Bouquillon, was set to 
expire on June 30, 2013. Accordingly, the Committee met prior to that date to discuss 
whether the contract would be renewed. On April 9, 2013, the Committee convened in 
open session. Both the topic listed on the meeting notice and the statement prior to 
convening in executive session appropriately described the purpose for its executive 
session. The Committee approved by roll call vote a motion "[t]o enter into Executive 
Session.. .not to return to open session.. .pursuant to Purpose 2 (M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2)) 
to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for contract negotiations with certain nonunion 
personnel, namely Dr. Edward Bouquillon, the District Superintendent." The Committee 
then engaged in a discussion regarding whether to renew Dr. Bouquillon's contract, or 
whether to recruit a new superintendent, before voting to engage in contract negotiations 
with Dr. Bouquillon. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may 
enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting 
Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose 
for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One purpose, Purpose 2, allows a public body to convene in executive session 'w[t]o 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
The Committee's discussion of Dr. Bouquillon's contract renewal generally fit 
within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as it related to strategy in preparation 
for renegotiating the contract with Dr. Bouquillon. See OML 2013-47. The Committee's 
discussion focused on whether it should renew Dr. Bouquillon's contract, or instead recruit 
a new superintendent. The Committee's discussion about Dr. Bouquillon's professional 
competence was directly related to its consideration of renewing his contract, and was 
therefore appropriate under Purpose 2.2 See District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School 
Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 568 (Mass. 2009) ("[w]hile professional 
competence must first be discussed in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into 
a contract or salary negotiation strategy may be a suitable discussion for an executive 
session"). Accordingly, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
2 The Committee engaged in an open session discussion about Dr. Bouquillon's evaluation during its October 
16, 2012 meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Manjarrez 
Nancy Campany, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 