===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
May 4, 2015 
OML 2015-59 
Michael Sacco, Esq. 
Law Offices of Michael Sacco, P.C. 
385 Southampton Road 
Westfield, MA 01085 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sacco; 
This office received a complaint from Mr. George F. Grimes, dated March 16, 2015, 
alleging that the Maiden Retirement Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 3, 2015, and 
the Board responded by letter dated February 5, 2015. In his complaint, Mr. Grimes alleges that 
the Board convened an unannounced executive session and failed to keep minutes of such 
executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the meeting notice and 
minutes of an open session meeting of the Board held on December 18, 2014. Finally, we 
interviewed Board secretary Laurie MacDonald by telephone on April 9, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on December 18, 2014, which 
was scheduled to begin at 8:30 A.M. Notice for this meeting was posted on December 10, 2014; 
the notice does not list an anticipated executive session. The complainant, along with four 
friends, sought to attend the meeting. When the first member of the complainant's party arrived, 
he was asked by a Board member to wait outside the meeting room until the other Board 
members arrived and the meeting began. The Board contends that this request was made largely 
for the comfort of the complainant's party, as the meeting room was small. The other members 
of the complainant's party arrived, and all five waited outside for the meeting to begin. During 
this period, some Board members arrived and waited in the meeting room for the other Board 
members. At approximately 8:35 A.M., Ms. MacDonald stated to the complainant and his party 
that the public meeting would be starting shortly. The complaint contends that the secretary 
===PAGE 2===
indicated the delay was caused by the Board meeting in executive session. Ms. MacDonald 
denies that she made this statement, and the Board further denies that it met in executive session 
on the date in question. All Board members eventually assembled in the meeting room, 
engaging in casual conversation as they did so, and the complainant's party was admitted. The 
minutes of the December 18, 2014 meeting, which were released on January 21, 2015, do not 
indicate that any executive session took place. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open to members of 
the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A 
"meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id, Notice of 
every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays," and every notice shall include "the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is also required to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
Here, the complaint alleges that on December 18, 2014, the Board conducted an 
unnoticed executive session prior to its open session, and failed to create minutes of this secret 
executive session. We find the evidence is not sufficient to support these allegations. Notice 
was posted for the meeting at issue on December 10, 2014, and did not list an executive session 
topic for discussion. Despite the alleged statements by the secretary that the Board was meeting 
in executive session that morning, the Board denies any executive session occurred and describes 
its conversation before the public was admitted as "idle discussion about non-Board business." 
Such discussions, if they truly did not concern business within the Board's jurisdiction, would 
not violate the Open Meeting Law as they would not meet the statutory definition of 
"deliberation." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the public body's version of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133. Accordingly, 
we find no violation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Mr. George F. Grimes 
Maiden Retirement Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 