===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 11. 2016 
OML 2016-108 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
PO Box 1268 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Qr>en Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Assad; 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 14, alleging that the Fall 
River School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about May 23, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated June 14.2 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by having counsel, rather than the 
chair, state the purposes for the executive session held on May 19. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, 
and the request for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed portions of a 
video recording of the Committee meeting held on May 23, which is available on the local cable 
access channel.3 
We find the facts as follows. On May 19, the City Clerk posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on May 23, in part, to convene in executive session to discuss a variety of matters, as 
described in detail on the notice. Prior to the executive session. Chair Jasiel Correia asked the 
Committee's attorney, Bruce Assad, whether there was "a reason to go into executive session" 
that evening. Attorney Assad then read aloud 11 reasons for convening in executive session, 
properly stating the relevant statutory sections and details about each anticipated discussion 
topic, before the Committee approved a motion to convene in executive session. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 Available at http://vod.frgtv.us/page/l. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
While meetings of public bodies typically need to be held in public view, a public body 
may enter into a closed executive session for any of ten executive session purposes. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a). Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to follow proper procedure to enter into 
executive session because Committee's attorney, rather than the chair, stated the purpose for the 
executive session. The Open Meeting Law specifically provides that the chair shall state the 
purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2016-75.4 In this instance, 
however. Chair Correira delegated his responsibility to Attorney Assad to make the requisite 
statement prior to the executive session. Although Chair Correira did not explicitly state during 
the meeting that he intended to delegate his authority, his request to Attorney Assad as to 
whether there was a "reason for an executive session" constituted a delegation of authority for 
the purposes of announcing the executive session. Accordingly, we find that the Chair met his 
obligation under that law and that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 