===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 163 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
John Fink, Esq. 
Counsel for Plymouth Regional Economic Development Foundation, Inc. 
SIMS & SIMS, LLP 
130 Liberty Street, Building 6 
Brockton, MA 02301 
johnfink@simsandsimsllp.com  
 
Kathleen McKay, Esq. 
General Counsel, Town of Plymouth 
26 Court Street  
Plymouth, MA 02360  
kmckay@plymouth-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Fink and McKay: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Margaret Sheehan, on behalf of Save the 
Pine Barrens, Inc./Community Land & Water Coalition, on December 2, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Plymouth Regional Economic Development Foundation, Inc. (the “Foundation”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Foundation on or about September 24. Attorney Fink responded to the complaint on behalf of the 
Foundation by letter dated October 11, and Attorney McKay responded on behalf of the Town by 
letter dated October 16. The complaint alleges that the Foundation is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and that the Foundation fails to comply with the Open Meeting Law, 
including by not posting notice for its meetings. 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Foundation is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore cannot have violated the Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint; the Foundation’s response; the Town’s response; 
the request for further review, including attached exhibits; and the Foundation’s Articles of 
Organization and Bylaws. We also reviewed additional communications from the Complainant, 
with attachments, and reviewed portions of Plymouth Select Board meetings held on February 11 
and 18, 2025.
2 Finally, we communicated with counsel for the Foundation, Attorney John Fink, 
via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On March 26, 2001, the Foundation filed Articles of 
Organization with the Secretary of the Commonwealth and was organized as a nonprofit 
corporation under Massachusetts General Laws chapter 180. The purpose of the Foundation, as 
stated in its Articles of Organization, is: 
 
To aid in the economic development of the Town of Plymouth and neighboring 
communities in Plymouth County, to provide programs that will retain or increase 
local tax revenues, to retain and provide new  employment opportunities and 
improve the skills of the local labor force  and in general to foster trade and 
commerce in Plymouth and its neighboring communities. 
 
Article II.  
 
Initially, the Foundation was comprised of Members and a Board of Trustees, 
with s
ome similarities between the two. The Foundation’s Members were to be as 
follows: three Members from the Town of Plymouth (specifically, the Director of 
Planning & Development or their designee, the Chair of the Select Board or their 
designee, and the Town Manager or their designee), four Members selected by the 
Plymouth Area Chamber of Commerce, and four Members selected by the Plymouth 
Industrial Development Corporation. Bylaws § 2.1. The Foundation was to have a 
minimum of eleven Members and a maximum of one hundred. Id. If the Foundation’s 
membership increased, one-third of the membership was to be chosen by the Town, one-
third by the Plymouth Area Chamber of Commerce, and one-third by the Plymouth 
Industrial Development Corporation. Id. If membership decreased, the Foundation was to 
maintain the above ratio. Id. Among other things, the powers of the Members included 
electing the Foundation’s Trustees. Bylaws §§ 2.3 & 4.2.  
 
 The
 Foundation’s Board of Trustees manages the affairs of the Foundation and 
elects its officers. Bylaws §§ 4.1 & 5.2. The original bylaws set forth that there would be 
11 voting Trustees, with three nominated by the Town of Plymouth (specifically, the 
Director of Planning & Development or their designee, the Chair of the Select Board or 
their designee, and the Town Manager or their designee), four nominated by the 
Plymouth Area Chamber of Commerce, and four nominated by the Plymouth Industrial 
Development Corporation. Bylaws § 4.2.  
 
2 Videos of Select Board meetings may be found at https://www.youtube.com/@plymouthmeetingsLS.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
In 2014, the Town and the Foundation entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding whereby the Foundation agreed to hire an Economic Development 
Director to oversee the Town’s economic development, and the Town agreed to 
contribute $125,000 per year to fund the position.
3  
 
At some point the Plymouth Industrial Development Corporation ceased to exist 
and so t
he Foundation amended its bylaws in May of 2016 (the “2016 Bylaws”). The 
2016 Bylaws provide that the Board of Trustees shall have a minimum of thirteen 
Trustees with three being nominated by the Town of Plymouth and “consisting of the 
Trustee of Planning and Development or a designee, the Chairman of the Board of 
Selectmen or a designee, and the Town Manager or a designee.” 2016 Bylaws §§ 2.1 & 
4.2. The additional Trustees are categorized as “at large” and “should represent a diverse 
cross section of the following industry sectors: finance, education, business, non-profit 
sectors, or any emerging industries that the Board of Trustees may deem appropriate.” 
2016 Bylaws § 2.1. The Board of Trustees may increase the number of Trustees and, in 
certain circumstances, may decrease the number of Trustees but not to fewer than eleven. 
Id. In general, a quorum consists of “a majority of the Trustees then in office.” 2016 
Bylaws §§ 2.7 & 4.8. 
 
The 
Foundation’s officers continue to be elected by the Board of Trustees and are 
ultimately under the Board’s control. 2016 Bylaws §§ 5.2 & 5.5.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body mem
bers. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18-25. As a threshold matter, we must determine whether the 
Foundation is a public body, as that term is defined in the Open Meeting Law, and therefore 
subject to the Law. For the reasons discussed below, we find that the Foundation is not a public 
body and is therefore not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The O
pen Meeting Law defines “public body” as any “multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether a 
multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors 
we consider: 
 
1.  the entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body”; 
2. the entity must be a body empowered to act collectively; and 
3.  the entity must serve a public purpose. 
 
3 The Complainant also provided our office with an unsigned Memorandum of Understanding between the Town 
and the Foundation for 2025 in which the Foundation agrees to engage a full -time Economic Development Director 
to oversee the Town’s economic development, and the Town agrees to contribute $152,298.00 annually for 
“programming and personnel.” 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
See OML 2025-48; OML 2021-150; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.4  
 
For the reasons explained below, we find that the Foundation does not satisfy the first 
facto
r where it is not “within” government. When an entity is not clearly placed within 
government by law, as is the case here, the entity may still be “within” government if i) the 
government played a significant role in creating or structuring the entity, ii) the government has 
control over the entity, and iii) the entity primarily performs an essentially governmental 
function. See OML 2025-32; OML 2010-1; see also Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. Bd. of Trustees 
of Leonard Morse Hosp., 389 Mass. 729 (1983). If an entity fails even one of these additional 
factors, then we will find that it is not clearly placed within government and is not a public body. 
See OML 2025-32 (finding that the Malden Community Fund Committee was not “within” 
government where it met the first two additional factors but failed the third). Here, we find that 
the Town did not play a significant role in creating or structuring the Foundation and that the 
Town does not have control over the Foundation; therefore, the Foundation is not “within” 
government and we need not address whether the Foundation performs an essentially 
governmental function. Because we find that the Foundation is not within government, we need 
not address whether the Foundation is empowered to act collectively or serves a public purpose. 
See OML 2023-206 (failure to meet one of the three factors is determinative); OML 2015-22 
(same). 
 
To suppor
t the assertion that the Foundation is within government, the Complainant notes 
that “two or more” individuals involved in the creation of the Foundation were Town officials at 
the time of the Foundation’s creation; that the Foundation’s board contains Town officials; and 
that all of the Foundation’s officers and directors, except for one, are residents of the Town. The 
complaint also asserts that Schedule O of the Foundation’s 2011 federal tax form shows that the 
Town created the Foundation, and that a website address included in the Foundation’s 2022 
federal tax form, econdevtownhall.plymouth.ma,
5 shows that the Foundation held itself out as an 
entity of the Town. Finally, the Complainant points to the 2014 Memorandum of Understanding, 
as well as the unsigned 2025 Memorandum of Understanding, between the Town and the 
Foundation.  
 
In its response, the Town specifically denies that it played any role in creating or 
structuring the Foundation. The Town further asserts that it does not appoint members to the 
Foundation and does not have control over the Foundation. For its part, the Foundation asserts 
that it is not a public body under the Open Meeting Law and that its staff and Trustees are not 
elected or appointed by the Town.  
 
After careful review of the information provided and arguments made by the 
Complainant in support of the assertion that the Foundation is within government, we do not find 
anything that shows that the Town played a role in creating or structuring the Foundation or that 
the Town exercises control over the Foundation. The fact that two out of the several individuals 
involved in creating the Foundation may have also been Town officials at the time of the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
5 As of the writing of this determination, econdevtownhall.plymouth.ma does not lead to a live website. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Foundation’s creation does not show that the Town played a role in creating or structuring the 
Foundation. Likewise, the fact that the Foundation’s Board contains Town officials and that all 
but one of the Foundation’s officers and directors are residents of the Town does not show that 
the Town has control over the Foundation. Indeed, the Foundation’s bylaws show that the Town 
does not have a controlling membership in the Foundation or on its Board. Additionally, we find 
that Schedule O of the Foundation’s 2011 federal tax form and the inclusion of the website 
econdevtownhall.plymouth.ma in the Foundation’s 2022 federal tax form are insufficient to 
show in any definitive way that the Town played a role in creating or structuring the Foundation 
or that the Town exercises control over the Foundation. Finally, while the Memoranda of 
Understanding may speak to a close relationship between the Town and the Foundation, they too 
are insufficient to show that the Town played a role in creating or structuring the Foundation or 
that the Town exercises control over the Foundation.  
 
The Complainant raises other
  concerns regarding the close relationship between the 
Town and the Foundation; specifically with respect to the Town paying the Economic 
Development Director’s salary and the roles that individual plays within the town and the 
Foundation. The Complainant also raises concerns about compliance with state ethics laws and 
potential conflicts of interest. We appreciate the Complainant’s earnest concerns regarding these 
matters; however, we find that they speak to whether certain individuals should be considered 
Town employees and whether potential conflicts of interest exist, not to whether the Foundation 
is a public body under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-34 (“That the Massachusetts Port 
Authority may treat the Committee differently than other groups does not make it part of 
government.”); OML 2017-190 (private group endorsed by superintendent to create plan for 
public school was not within government).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Foundation is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Foundation, the Town of 
Plymouth, or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
cc: Kelly McElreath, Plymouth Town Clerk (via email: kmcelreath@plymouth-ma.gov)  
Margaret Sheehan, Esq., Save the Pine Barrens, Inc./Community Land & Water Coalition 
(via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
