===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GKNERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Joslin Murphy, Town Counsel 
Town of Brookline 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
July 19,2018 
OML 2018-106 
TEL; ,(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murphy: 
This office received three related complaints from Susan Murphy, all dated February 6, 
2018, alleging that the Brookline Select Board (the "Board"), the Brookline School Committee 
(the "Committee"), and the Brookline 9th School Ad Hoc Subcommittee of the Advisory 
Committee ("the Subcommittee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L, c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were filed with the bodies on December 7, 2017, and the bodies responded by a 
single letter dated February 6, 2018.' In these complaints, the complainant alleges that the 
bodies convened in a joint executive session without a proper statutory purpose.2 
Following our review, we find that the bodies did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaints, the bodies' response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We reviewed the minutes of a joint meeting of the three 
bodies held in open session on November 9, 2017, and we reviewed, in camera, the minutes of 
an executive session also held on this date. Finally, we spoke to the bodies' legal counsel by 
telephone on July 2, 2018.3 
1 Although not raised in a complaint, we note that the bodies did not respond to the complaints within the time frame 
required by law. The Open Meeting Law requires that, within fourteen business days after receiving a complaint, 
the public body shall review the complaint's allegations, take remedial action if appropriate, and send the Attorney 
General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). We take this opportunity to remind the bodies of their obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
2 The request for further review contains allegations not found in the original complaints filed with the three bodies. 
Specifically, the request for further review alleges that the bodies (i) failed to follow proper procedure before 
convening in executive session, (ii) failed to make meeting minutes available within the required time frame, and 
(iii) failed to appropriately review Open Meeting Law complaints. Because these allegations were not part of the 
original complaints filed with the bodies, we do not review them now. See OML 2012-92; OML 2012-38. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The three public bodies at issue posted notice of a meeting 
to be held on November 9, 2017. This notice stated that the three bodies would enter executive 
session, and described the anticipated discussion as follows: 
Executive session for the purpose of discussing strategy with respect to anticipated 
litigation concerning the proposed construction of an Elementary School at 480 Heath 
Street and 400 Heath Street if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares; (Purpose 
3) and for the purpose of considering the purchase, exchange, or value of real property 
located at 480 Heath Street and 400 Heath Street in Brookline if the chair declares that 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the Town 
(Purpose 6). 
The bodies held the November 9, 2017, meeting as planned and entered executive session 
for the reasons stated on the meeting notice. The minutes of this executive session have not yet 
been released, and we therefore do not recount their contents in detail. We note generally that 
the bodies discussed strategy with respect to potential affirmative litigation, as well as the 
potential acquisition of alternate elementary school sites. 
DISCUSSION 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One such statutory purpose for 
executive session permits a public body "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining 
or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
Another purpose for executive session is to "consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of 
real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). 
Here, the complaints allege that the bodies convened in executive session during the 
November 9, 2017 meeting without a proper statutory purpose. In large part, the discussions that 
took place during the November 9, 2017, executive session mirror those that took place during 
previous joint executive sessions held in September and October 2017. In a previous 
determination letter, we found that these discussions were properly held in executive session. 
See OML 2018-73.4 For substantially the same reasons, we now conclude that the November 9, 
2017 discussions were proper for executive session. Discussion of whether to appeal an 
administrative or other determination, or whether to bring affirmative litigation, are appropriate 
under Purpose 3. See OML 2017-9. Discussions related to the value of the real property are 
appropriate for executive session under Purpose 6. See OML 2017-95. Because the discussions 
that took place during the November 9, 2017 joint executive session tracked these permissible 
topics, we find that the bodies did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-73. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the three bodies at issue did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law, We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the bodies addressed in this letter. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Susan Murphy, Esq., Dain, Torpy, LeRay, Wiest & Gamer, P.C. 
Brookline Select Board 
Brooldine School Committee 
Brookline 9th School Ad Hoc Subcommittee of the Advisory Committee 
This determmation was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
Sincerely, 
Kev 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 