===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2018 
OML 2018-120 
Gerard F. Dolan, Esq. 
Assistant General Counsel 
Board of Registration in Medicine 
200 Harvard Mill Square, Suite 330 
Wakefield, MA 01880 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dolan: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Andrew Hyams on January 3, 2018 
alleging that the Board of Registration in Medicine (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 9; 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 24. The complaint alleges 
that the Board's October 12 meeting minutes are inaccurate. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of, 
and open and executive session minutes from, the Board's October 12 meeting, as well as draft 
minutes from the Board's October 12 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Attorney Hyams by 
telephone on January 12, 2018, January 19, 2018, and February 2, 2018; and with you by 
telephone on February 20, 2018. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant represents a physician whose application 
for licensure was being considered by the Board. The complainant appeared, along with the 
applicant physician, at a Board meeting held on October 12. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
During the public portion of the October 12 meeting, the Board reviewed licensing data 
and eight licensing applications, approved minutes from its September 28 meeting, and 
considered an initial limited license application. 
The Board then convened in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), to 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health of the applicant physician. 
The applicant and the complainant were permitted to attend the executive session, and the 
applicant addressed the Board regarding his qualifications for licensure. The Board then 
unanimously agreed that the applicant did not possess the clinical knowledge base and good 
moral character required for licensure. 
Over three and one half hours later, the Board reconvened in open session and voted to 
preliminarily deny the applicant physician's license application.2 
By letter dated October 13, the Board informed the complainant that it had voted to 
preliminarily deny his client's license application. An "Order of Preliminary Denial" 
accompanied this letter, which provided the grounds for denial including a below average rating 
for clinical knowledge, deficits in his medical knowledge, poor listening skills, issues involving 
trustworthiness and honesty, and improper delegation of a procedure. The Order concluded by 
stating that the applicant "has failed to sufficiently demonstrate that he possesses the good moral 
character required for licensure." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.3 By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
OML 2012-106. 
The complaint alleges that the October 12 meeting minutes failed to include an accurate 
summary of the Board's discussion in executive session regarding the applicant physician. 
Specifically, the complainant alleges that the minutes do not match the substance of the 
conversations that took place during the executive session because the minutes include reference 
to his client's lack of "good moral character," yet no Board member uttered that phrase. The 
Board agrees that "the executive session minutes do not specifically contain the phrase 'lack of 
2 At the conclusion of the executive session, the Board recessed for lunch for approximately 40 minutes and then 
convened an Adjudicatory Session for approximately three hours to decide allegations against six physicians, which 
did not include the applicant. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
good moral character,'" but argues that the summary of the discussion "exhibits the Board's 
basis" for that statement. Although we agree that the minutes do not indicate that a Board 
member actually stated the phrase "lack of good moral character," the Open Meeting Law does 
not require a transcript of the discussions, nor that the minutes include verbatim every remark 
made or opinion presented. See OML 2017-29; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Here, the 
minutes reflect the Board's concerns with the applicant physician's professionalism, 
trustworthiness, and honesty, all of which impacted the Board's ultimate determination as to 
whether the applicant possessed "good moral character," which is a prerequisite to licensure as a 
physician in Massachusetts. See 243 CMR 2.02(l)(b). We, therefore, conclude that the minutes 
contain a sufficient summary of the discussions that occurred during the October 12 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as the minutes include an 
accurate summary of its October 12 meeting. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Andrew Hyams, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 