===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 160 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Brian R. Falk, Esq. 
Mirick, O’Connell, DeMallie & Lougee, LLP 
bfalk@MirickOConnell.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Falk: 
 
This office received a complaint from Margaret Stone on June 25, 2024, alleging that the 
Berlin-Boylston Regional School District Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about May 31.  Committee Chair Meagan Grill responded on behalf of the Committee on 
June 26, by letter dated June 6.
2  The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly amended 
the notice for its May 28 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the 
Committee, the Committee’s response, and the request for further review of the complaint.  We 
also reviewed meeting notices posted on the Berlin-Boylston Regional School District website as 
well as the Town of Berlin and Town of Boylston websites. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of each meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including weekends and holidays.  The notice must include a listing of 
all topics that the chair “reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The Open Meeting Law regulations contemplate that a meeting notice may be amended, 
even within 48 hours of a meeting.  See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  Specifically, a public body 
may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated topic and 
then discuss that topic during the meeting.  See OML 2023-173; OML 2019-131.  Indeed, a 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The response was sent to this office and to the complainant only after we inquired of the Committee regarding the 
status of the response; Chair Grill stated that she had thought the school district had sent the response.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public body may discuss and even take action on a truly unanticipated topic during a meeting 
despite the topic not appearing on the meeting notice at all.  See OML 2024-57; OML 2020-172; 
OML 2019-131.  The date and time that a meeting notice is posted must be “conspicuously 
recorded thereon or therewith.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  Furthermore, if a meeting notice is 
amended within 48 hours of a meeting (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays), 
“then the date and time that the meeting notice is amended shall also be conspicuously recorded 
thereon or therewith.”  Id.   
 
For regional school district committees, notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk of 
each city and town within the district and each municipal clerk shall post the notice in the 
manner prescribed for local public bodies in that city or town.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  As an 
alternative to posting the notice in each city and town within the district, and thus relying on each 
clerk to timely post the notice, a regional school district committee may designate the regional 
school district’s website as an alternative notice posting location.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  Once 
designated, the regional school district’s website becomes the official notice posting location for 
the regional school district committee.  Although public bodies are welcome to post notice of 
their meetings in additional locations if they choose, a regional public body has one official 
notice posting method for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law: either its website, 
if so adopted, or by timely posting in each city and town within the district.  See 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c); OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee amended the notice for its May 28 meeting less 
than 48 hours before the meeting, not including weekends and holidays, but that the amended 
notice did not get posted to the Berlin website at all and that the amended notice that was posted 
to the Committee’s website did not list the date and time the notice was amended.  Although the 
Committee has acknowledged both points, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
As of the date of the meeting at issue in this complaint – May 28 – the Committee had 
not adopted a website as its official notice posting location.  Therefore, its official notice posting 
method was filing each notice with each municipal clerk and ensuring the clerks posted the 
notice according to each municipality’s own posting method.  The Town of Boylston has 
adopted its municipal website as the official posting location for Boylston public bodies.  The 
Town of Berlin has not and therefore must post all meeting notices to a physical bulletin board in 
or on the municipal building that is conspicuously visible at all hours.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  
940 CMR 29.03(2).  Accordingly, the Committee was required to post meeting notices by 
sending each notice to the Berlin and Boylston municipal clerks and ensuring that the notice was 
posted to the Boylston website and the Berlin bulletin board 48 hours in advance of each 
meeting.   
 
There is no dispute that the original notice for the Committee’s May 28 meeting was 
timely and properly posted.  There also is no dispute that the amended notice was not posted to 
the Committee’s official notice posting location – the Boylston website and the Berlin bulletin 
board – prior to the meeting.  The Committee posted the amended notice only to its own website, 
but that was not an official notice posting location, and therefore we do not review the meeting 
notice posted there.  See OML 2022-232; OML 2022- 210.  Accordingly, we view the situation 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
as if the Committee did not post an amended meeting notice at all and we analyze Open Meeting 
Law compliance through that lens.   
 
The Committee has explained that over the Memorial Day holiday weekend preceding 
the May 28 meeting, the Committee’s Chair learned through legal counsel of options to take 
certain actions with respect to a reconsideration vote on the School District’s proposed budget.  
The Committee explained that the topic was unanticipated, and we find no evidence to the 
contrary.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the 
facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141.  Therefore, although the Committee 
could have discussed the unanticipated topic without adding it to the meeting notice at all, the 
Committee attempted to follow our recommended practice of amending the meeting notice to 
add the topic “Approval to schedule School Committee budget reconsideration meeting date and 
Regional Town Meeting date if needed – Vote.”  Ultimately, the amended notice did not get 
posted, but because the amendment to add the unanticipated topic was not required, we do not 
find a violation of the Open Meeting Law.       
 
On June 6, the Committee voted to adopt its own website as its official notice posting 
location, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(3), and therefore no longer is required to send its 
meeting notices to the clerks of Berlin and Boylston for posting.   
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meagan Grill, Chair, Berlin-Boylston Regional School District Committee (via email: 
mgrill@bbrsd.org) 
Eloise Salls, Berlin Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@townofberlin.com) 
Dawn Porter, Boylston Town Clerk (via email: dporter@boylston-ma.gov) 
Margaret Stone (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
