===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 24, 2015 
OML 2015-87 
Richard Bowen, Esq. 
Wareham Town Counsel 
Memorial Town Hall 
54 Marion Road 
Wareham, MA 02571 
Re; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bowen; 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated May 8, alleging that the 
Wareham Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to notice that it would convene 
in open session prior to its April 14 executive session meeting, and that the notice for the April 
14 meeting was not sufficiently specific. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
April 20. The Board responded by email dated May 6. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we review the notice for 
the Board's April 14 meeting. Finally, we spoke with Town Counsel Richard Bowen by 
The Board posted notice for its April 14 meeting on April 9. The notice listed a single 
topic: 
2 telephone on May 26. 
FACTS 
Executive Session - To discuss strategy and conduct collective bargaining with 
non-union personnel. To discuss strategy relating to litigation, if discussion in 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
open session will have a detrimental effect on the position of the governmental 
body. 
During the Board's April 14 meeting, the Board convened in open session and then voted 
to enter into executive session. While in executive session, the Board discussed a pending 
litigation matter as well as a collective bargaining matter. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Notice for the Board's April 14 Meeting Failed to List "Open Session" as a Topic. 
The notice for the Board's April 14 meeting included only an executive session topic, and 
did not indicate that the Board would first convene in open session. A public body may meet in 
executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided it has first convened in open 
session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(1). When the only business to be discussed during an open 
session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing "open session" on 
the meeting notice is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public 
body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; 
OML 2012-68.4 Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the 
opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2012-55. For 
this reason, the Board's meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. 
2. The Notice for the Board's April 14 Meeting Failed to Identify the Collective Bargaining 
Unit with which it was Negotiating. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One purpose for executive 
session is for public bodies to discuss, "strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
While the Board's collective bargaining strategy discussion was appropriate for executive 
session, we find that the Board failed to publicly state "all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called" at the time it entered into 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Generally, public bodies must identify the 
collective bargaining unit with which they are negotiating before entering into executive session 
under Purpose 3. See OML 2013-129; OML 2013-91. A public body may withhold the identity 
3 While the notice identifies a discussion pertaining to "collective bargaining with non-union personnel," we 
understand from speaking with Town Counsel that the discussion involved collective bargaining with a collective 
bargaining unit. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.izov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
of the collective bargaining unit if publicly disclosing it would compromise the purpose for 
which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). While we generally defer 
to public bodies' assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the 
purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for that claim if challenged. See OML 2015-44. Here, the Board has not provided any reason 
why identifying the collective bargaining unit would have compromised the purpose for 
confidentiality. Therefore, the notice should have included the identity of the collective 
bargaining unit. See OML 2013-129; OML 2013-91. 
With respect to the pending litigation matter, we understand from Attorney Bowen that 
the Board was meeting to consider settlement of a litigation matter. Attorney Bowen stated to 
our Office that had the Board publicly disclosed the existence of its settlement discussion, the 
disclosure would have been detrimental to the Board's litigating position. His concern was that 
the Board would have lost its leverage in negotiating a settlement by making the adverse party 
aware of the existence, and potentially the nature, of the discussion. We are satisfied that 
disclosing the name of the pending litigation matter would have been detrimental to the Board's 
litigating position at the time. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), (b)(3). Therefore, we find that the 
notice was sufficiently specific in identifying only the executive session purpose related to the 
litigation matter. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to notice that it would convene in open session prior to its April 14 executive session 
meeting, and by failing to identify in its April 14 meeting notice the collective bargaining unit 
with which it was negotiating. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance, and 
caution the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the law. 
Because the April 14 executive session discussion regarding collective bargaining was 
not held in compliance with G.L. c. 3OA, § 21, the Board may not continue to withhold the 
minutes of this portion of the discussion under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) 
(minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive 
session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; 
OML 2014-17. The Board may continue to withhold these minutes in whole or in part under any 
applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
cc: Wareham Board of Selectmen 
Ronald Beaty 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 