===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       January 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 1 
 
 
Howard Greenspan, Esq. 
200 Broadway, Suite 304 
Lynnfield, MA 01940
 
 
By email only: hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan:  
 
This office received a complaint from Peter Ebb on October 16, 2024, alleging that the 
Malden School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 20, 2024, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 2, 2024.
1  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee continues to withhold certain documents used during executive sessions past 
the time that publication would defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On July 17, 2024, the complainant submitted a public 
records request to the Committee seeking all proposals made by either the Malden School 
Committee or the Malden Education Association during the collective bargaining negotiations 
 
1 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
which led up to the tentative agreements reached by the Committee and the Malden Education 
Association on or about October 17, 2022, as well as the tentative agreements reached.  The 
Committee denied the request stating that the records related to the discussion of strategy in 
preparation for negotiations with the Malden Education Association and therefore “public release 
may have a detrimental effect on its ongoing bargaining position with respect to collective 
bargaining units representing school district employees.”  The Committee further explained that 
“the executive session purpose has not yet expired because disclosure of the unreleased 
information would harm its position with respect to other bargaining units, or in future 
negotiations with the same unit.” 
 
On August 5, 2024, the complainant appealed the Committee’s denial of records to the 
Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office.  The Supervisor of 
Records declined to review the matter explaining that the Committee’s response raises issues that 
invoke the Open Meeting Law and recommended that “the parties contact the Attorney General’s 
Office if they seek a determination on this matter.”  Thereafter, the complainant filed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint at issue here.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
2   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid 
execut
ive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies.  Id.  The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988). 
 
The 
complaint alleges that the Committee continues to withhold minutes of and 
documents used during executive sessions held to conduct collective bargaining or strategy 
sessions for collective bargaining with the Malden Education Association past the time that 
publication would defeat the lawful purpose for the executive sessions.
3  In past determinations, 
we have distinguished the situation where a public body enters executive session to conduct 
actual collective bargaining negotiations under Purpose 2 with one in which it enters executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining negotiations under Purpose 3.  
See OML 2022-21; OML 2018-19.  We have explained that where a public body’s discussions 
touch upon long-term strategy that may be repeated during a future round of bargaining, such 
that disclosure may harm a future bargaining position with respect to subsequent collective 
bargaining agreements, executive session minutes may be withheld for a period of time beyond 
the conclusion of the collective bargaining or contract negotiation sessions.  See OML 2015-52; 
OML 2012-41.   
 
Here,
 the Committee contends that release of the minutes and documents will have a 
detrimental effect on its bargaining position in the future as “the negotiations themselves cannot 
be separated from the strategy for those negotiations because the strategy is revealed through 
those negotiations and documents.”  If an executive session is held pursuant to Purposes 2 or 3, 
“then the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits used at the session may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and until such time as a . . . 
negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure,” at which time 
they must be disclosed.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Our role is not to supplant the Committee’s 
judgment that disclosure of the minutes or documents would defeat the lawful purpose of the 
executive sessions but rather to determine whether the Committee has a reasonable basis for 
continuing to withhold the executive session minutes.  We find that the Committee has made a 
sufficient showing to justify its continued nondisclosure of the minutes of and documents used 
during the 2022 executive sessions.  
 
Nonetheless, we take this opportunity to remind the Committee that executive session 
minutes and documents may not be withheld under the Open Meeting Law indefinitely.  At some 
point, the public interest in transparency will outweigh the potential for harm to the public 
body’s future collective bargaining position.  See OML 2020-120; OML 2015-62.  After each 
subsequent collective bargaining agreement is reached, therefore, the burden on the public body 
to release materials of the older executive sessions increases.4  See OML 2015-52; OML 2012-
 
3 The complaint states that meetings occurred in 2022 but does not provide specific dates of when such meetings 
occurred.  See OML 2014-119 and OML 2012-106 (complainants must allege violations with a degree of 
specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations). 
4 We remind the Committee that if the purpose for the executive session has concluded, then the Open Meeting Law 
would no longer provide a basis for withholding the executive session minutes or documents.  However, even if the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
41.  We further remind the Committee of its continuing obligation to review, at reasonable 
intervals, its executive session minutes to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes 
is warranted.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2024-24.  Although “reasonable interval” is not 
defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be 
appropriate.  See OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by withholding 
documents used during executive sessions.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Peter Ebb – By email only:  
Malden School Committee
  c/o Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair – By email only: 
mayor@cityofmalden.org 
Malden City Clerk Carol Ann Desiderio – By email only: cdes
 iderio@cityofmalden.org  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
Open Meeting Law no longer authorizes the withholding of minutes or documents, the materials may be exempt 
from production, in whole or in part, under the Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2020-142; 
OML 2015-170. 
