===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATT 0 RNEY GENERAL 
May 4, 2011 
OML 2011 - 15 
Margaret Driscoll 
Chair, Melrose School Committee 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02175 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Driscoll, 
This office received a complaint from Maryan Hollis, dated January 3, 2011, alleging that 
the Melrose School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges the Committee added an agenda item "without 
proper notice to the public," and that the Committee discussed a topic in executive session that 
"[did] not qualify for any of the exemptions for executive session" during its October 12, 2010 
meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee as two separate complaints on 
or about November 1, 2010. The Committee responded to the complaints in a letter dated 
November 10, 2010. 
We reviewed the complaints filed on November 1, 2010 and January 3, 2011; the 
Committee's response dated November 10, 2010; the open session minutes for the Committee's 
September 28, 2010 meeting; the notice for the October 12, 2010 meeting; and the open and 
executive session minutes for the October 12, 2010 meeting. In addition, we requested and 
reviewed a series of email communications between members of the School Committee, the 
Committee's Counsel, and Superintendent Joseph Casey during the month of October 2010; a 
letter from Committee member Carrie Kourkoumelis with attachments, dated January 10, 2011; 
and a letter from Ms. Kourkoumelis to the Superintendent dated February 3, 2011. Finally, we 
spoke by phone with the Committee's attorney, Mary Jo Hollender, on March 15, 2011. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee failed to provide specific detail in its 
meeting notice for the October 12, 2010 meeting, as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
However, we fmd that the Committee did enter executive session for a lawful purpose. The 
===PAGE 2===
Committee further acted appropriately by ratifying a contract offer, which was the subj ect of the 
executive session, immediately upon returning to open session. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the materials listed above, the facts are as follows. Some time 
prior to September 28, 2010, Melrose School Superintendent Joseph Casey placed individual 
phone calls to each of the Committee members. The purpose for these calls was to discuss a title 
change for Patricia White-Lambright, who at the time was the Assistant Administrator for Pupil 
Personnel Services.' On September 28, 2010, the Committee met in executive session during a 
posted meeting to discuss the title change as part of a new contract for Ms. White-Lambright. 
According to the minutes of that meeting, the Committee entered executive session "to conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations, or to conduct contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel." The Committee adjourned the meeting without taking action on any 
contract for Ms. White-Lambright. 
The Committee next met on October 12, 2010. The meeting notice listed as a topic 
"Executive Session" and, under that, "To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations and, if appropriate, to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion central office 
administrative personnel." According to the minutes of the October 12, 2010 meeting, the 
Committee voted to "adjourn to Executive Session to discuss strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations and, if appropriate, to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion central office 
administrative personnel, and later reconvene in Public Session." The minutes reflect that during 
the executive session the Committee discussed changing Ms. White-Lambright's title from 
Assistant Administrator for Pupil Personnel Services to Assistant Superintendent for Pupil 
Personnel Services as part of a three year contract agreement. According to the Committee 
Chair, the change in title was part of the Committee's negotiation to entice Ms. White-Lambright 
to accept a new contract. The Committee then invited Ms. White-Lambright into the session to 
offer her the contract, including the title change. The entire session lasted about ten minutes. 
Following the conclusion of the executive session and upon reconvening in open session, 
the Committee voted to add an agenda item to the "Announcements of Superintendent" section 
of the agenda entitled "Vote for appointment of nonunion Central Office Administrative 
Personnel." After a report from the student representatives, the Committee entertained the added 
agenda item, and voted to "change the title of the position of Administrator of PPS to Assistant 
Superintendent of PPS and to appoint Ms. Patti White-Lambright as Assistant Superintendent for 
PPS for the duration of the three years, and with no change in salary or duties for the 2010-2011 
school year." The minutes do not reflect any discussion in open session prior to the vote.2  
While public bodies are cautioned that serial communications may constitute a deliberation in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law, an individual who is not a member of the public body may lobby individual members of public 
body so long as he or she does not act as a conduit for deliberatian. Here, we understand that Superintendent Casey 
spoke with each committee member individually and did not convey the individual members' opinions to the other 
members. 
2  We note that prior to the October 12, 2010 meeting, our office was contacted by a member of the Committee, as 
well as counsel for the Committee, seeking advice on how to proceed with the notice and conduct of the October 12, 
2010 meeting, specifically on the issues that are now the subject of the complaint. In accordance with our practice, 
our office provided general guidance in response to the inquiries we received, and additionally issued a December 
23, 2010 letter providing general answers to questions posed by Committee member Carrie Kourkoumelis 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges two violations of the Open Meeting Law stemming from the same 
October 12, 2010 meeting. First, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by adding a topic to the October 12, 2010 meeting that "was not posted in advance 
as required by law." Second, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the law by 
"deliberating and coming to the decision to create and/or fill the position of Assistant 
Superintendent in secret rather than in public session." We address these allegations in turn. 
1. The Committee Failed to Adequately Post the Executive Session Topic in the Notice 
for the October 12, 2010 Meeting 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30, §§ 20(b), states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting that was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CIvIR 29.03. For an executive session topic, the chair must "state the purpose for 
the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). This level of 
detail must also be included in the meeting notice. 
Although not specifically raised in the complaint, we find that the Committee's October 
12, 2010 meeting notice was not sufficiently specific to advise the public of the issues the 
Committee planned to discuss in executive session. The notice for the October 12, 2010 meeting 
described the "Executive Session" topic only as "To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations and, if appropriate, to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion central office 
administrative personnel." This notice falls short of the requirement that the Committee state 
"all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session" will be called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). The meeting notice should have specifically 
stated that the Committee would be meeting in executive session to conduct a strategy session in 
preparation for negotiations with Patricia White-Lambright, and if appropriate, to conduct 
contract negotiations with Patricia White-Lambright. Providing the public with this additional 
information would not have been detrimental to the Committee's negotiating position, 
particularly as Ms. White-Lambright was aware of the session and had been invited to attend for 
the contract negotiation portion. It would, however, have put any interested member of the 
public on notice that there was a specific member of the "nonunion central office administrative 
personnel" with whom the Committee was negotiating. Because the Committee failed to provide 
sufficient detail in the notice of its executive session, the Committee should have postponed 
action on Ms. White-Lambright's contract for an open session where the topic could be listed 
appropriately in a meeting notice 48 hours ahead of the meeting. 
(attached). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
However, we do not find any merit to the complainant's allegation that the agenda item 
was not properly noticed because it failed to state that the Board would vote on ratifying any 
negotiated contract. The Open Meeting Law does not require the chair of a public body to 
anticipate whether a contract negotiation will come to fruition during an executive session. If a 
public body properly notices the executive session, then the public is on notice that there may be 
a contract ratification or approval following the executive session. As the next section of this 
letter discusses, the Committee acted appropriately in holding a vote to approve the contract in 
open session immediately following the executive session. 
2. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Negotiating a Contract in 
Executive Session Which Included the Creation of a New Position 
The Open Meeting Law sets forth ten purposes for which public bodies may enter 
executive session to conduct deliberations outside of the public view. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
During the course of an executive session, a public body may not discuss any topic other than the 
topic the public body enters executive session to discuss. See District Attorney for the  
Northwestern District v. Selectmen of Sunderland,  11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive 
session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining 
to the specific purpose for which executive session was called). 
In this instance, the public body entered executive session for the purpose of 
"conduct[ing] strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations and, if appropriate, to conduct 
contract negotiations with nonunion central office administrative personnel." According to the 
Committee Chair, as part of the contract negotiations with Ms. White-Lambright, the Committee 
discussed changing her title and responsibilities to entice Ms. White-Lambright to accept a new 
contract. We find that these types of discussions are an appropriate component of executive 
session deliberations for the purpose of conducting "contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel." Had the meeting notice included sufficient detail regarding the executive session, 
the public body would have acted appropriately in ratifying the contract in open session. 
However, because the meeting notice did not provide the public with sufficient detail to 
understand what the Committee would discuss in executive session, the Committee should have 
postponed the open session contract ratification to a subsequent meeting where the vote could be 
listed on a notice 48 hours before the meeting. Here, the Committee exited executive session at 
its October 12, 2010 meeting, and then voted in open session to "change the title of the position 
of Administrator of PPS to Assistant Superintendent of PPS and to appoint Ms. Patti White-
Lambright as Assistant Superintendent for PPS for the duration of the three years, and with no 
change in salary or duties for the 2010-2011 school year." .Had the Committee given sufficient 
detail of the purpose for the executive session in its notice, it would have acted appropriately in 
bringing this topic to the floor following the executive session negotiations. 
CONCLUSION 
The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient detail 
about the purpose for its executive session, both in its meeting notice and when it convened in 
4 
===PAGE 5===
executive session during the October 12, 2010 meeting. We accordingly order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination 
by our office of similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, we order that the Committee promptly release the 
executive session minutes from September 28, 2010 and October 12, 2010, if it has not already 
done so, as the purpose for keeping those minutes confidential no longer exists. We decline to 
take the further remedial action requested by the complainant, specifically to nullify the action 
taken by the Committee in approving Ms. White-Lambright's contract. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
4 -6nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
Enclosure: December 23, 2010 Letter 
cc: Maryan Hollis 
cc: Melrose School Committee 
cc: Superintended Joseph F. Casey, Secretary to the Melrose School Committee 
cc: Mary Jo Hollender 
5 