===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 19,2016 
OML 2016-55 
Gordon Clark, Chair 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
This office received a complaint from Kelly M. Kelly on February 11, 2016, alleging 
that the Townsend Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 5, 
2016, and former Board Chair Carolyn Smart responded, on behalf of the Board, to the 
complaint by letter dated January 19, 2016.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kelly alleges that, based 
on a document she received from the Board in response to a public records request, it appears 
that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via a third party outside of a meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the document provided in 
support of the complainant's allegation and two emails sent between Chair Clark and former 
Police Chief Erving Marshall in August 2015. Finally, in March 2016 we spoke individually 
by telephone with Board members Carolyn Smart and Gordon Clark, former Board member 
Colin McNabb, and former Town Administrator Andrew Sheehan. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three member body, thus two members 
constitute a quorum. On August 11, 2015, Then Police Chief Erving Marshall and Board 
member Mr. Clark met over coffee to discuss the possible retirement of Chief Marshall, who 
had been with the Townsend Police Department for thirty-eight years. Chair Marshall 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
indicated to Mr. Clark that he was hesitant to retire due to the health insurance benefits 
offered to Town retirees. At the time, the Town paid 85% of the health insurance benefits for 
its retirees. Following this conversation, Mr. Clark facilitated the scheduling of a Board 
meeting on August 18, 2015 to discuss Chief Marshall's retirement. Mr. Clark asked the 
Town Administrator to tell Mr. McNabb, who was Board Chair at the time, about his meeting 
with Chief Marshall. Ms. Smart was not involved in any of these discussions, except to ask 
the Town Administrator for information about the anticipated executive session topic listed on 
the August 18, 2015 meeting notice. 
On August 13, 2015, Chief Marshall sent a memorandum to the Massachusetts Police 
Association Legal Defense Team asking for its assistance with the retirement agreement that 
Board counsel had drafted in anticipation of the August 18, 2015 meeting. In this 
memorandum, Chief Marshall stated that Mr. Clark told him that he could "guarantee that he 
could get [him] 100% of [his] current healthcare plan paid for by the town for the next two 
years." On August 25, 2015, the Board executed a retirement agreement with Chief Marshall. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
Ms. Kelly alleges that based, on a memorandum from Chief Marshall to the 
Massachusetts Police Association, it appears that the Board improperly discussed Chief 
Marshall's retirement outside of a meeting. In this memorandum. Chief Marshall stated that 
when he met with Mr. Clark on August 11, 2015, Mr. Clark told him that as a term of Chief 
Marshall's retirement, Mr. Clark "could guarantee" 100% health insurance coverage to him 
over the next two years. While we find no evidence that the Board members discussed Chief 
Marshall's retirement with each other prior to the August 18, 2015 meeting, we find that the 
Board improperly deliberated when Mr. Clark and Mr. McNabb (who together constitute a 
quorum of the Board) communicated through the Town Administrator about Mr. Clark's 
conversation with Chief Marshall. See OML 2016-29.2 A public body may not use a staff 
member to communicate on matters that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an 
open meeting. See McCrea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private 
serial communications may not be used to circumvent the intent of the Open Meeting Law). 
Because Mr. Clark's conversation with Chief Marshall reached a quorum of the Board via a 
third party outside of a meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Kelly M. Kelly 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 