===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 25, 2018 
OML 2018-131
Caroline Thibault, Esq.
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Avenue, Suite 300B 
Westwood, MA 02090
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Thibault:
This office received two complaints from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on March 29 and 
April 23, alleging that the Harvard School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on or about February 15 and February 22, and you responded to the complaints, on 
behalf of the Committee, by letters dated March 12 and April 18. The first complaint alleges 
that, during its February 2 meeting, the Committee took a vote on a topic that was not listed on 
the meeting notice and was the result of actions and recommendations previously taken in secret 
by a subcommittee, which did not post notice of or create minutes for any of its meetings. The 
second complaint alleges that, during its February 15 meeting, the Committee took a subsequent 
vote on the same issue based on the actions and recommendations previously taken in secret by 
its various subcommittees.
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by voting on a topic during its February 2 and February 15 meetings. However, we find that the 
Working Group created by the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post 
notice and create minutes for its meetings. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of all of the 
Committee’s Working Group meetings held since its formation in April 2017 until March 22, as 
well the notices and minutes of Committee meetings held on April 27, 2017, September 22,
2017, October 19, 2017, November 9, 2017, November 30, 2017, December 14, 2017, February 
2, February 15, and March 9.2 Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on April 18 and May 21;
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise specified.
2 The Committee created the Working Group’s notices and minutes after these complaints were filed.

===PAGE 2===
with you by e-mail on various dates between May 22 and September 11; and with the 
complainant by telephone on April 18, July 3, and August 14.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a 10-member public body, with four non­
voting alternate members; thus six members constitute a quorum. Linda Dwight, Superintendent 
of Schools, is Chair of the Committee. Since 2016, the Committee has spearheaded the Hildreth 
Elementary School building project; a proposed multi-million-dollar construction project which 
required the Committee to consider either renovating the existing facility or constructing a new 
facility. The Committee ultimately proposed constructing a new facility, for which Town 
Meeting approved funding in May 2018. The Committee is collaborating with the Massachusetts 
School Building Authority (the “MSBA”) for funding the project. To assist the Town in 
implementing the project, the MSBA established several stages of goals. One of the stages 
required the Town to submit a Schematic Design Package to the MSBA, which included details 
on the project’s scope, budget, and schedule.
During an April 27, 2017, meeting, the Committee created a Working Group to allow 
interested Committee members to have extra time to discuss issues related to the project. The 
Working Group consists of four Committee members, including Superintendent Dwight, as well 
as other interested parties, such as school officials and the architect. The Working Group met 
nine times between May 2017 and December 2017; its focus during that time was discussing and 
reviewing designs for either new construction or upgrades to the existing school building. At its 
January 11 meeting, the Working Group began to discuss the costs of the project and stated that 
two estimates would be provided to the Committee on February 2. The Working Group’s 
January 11 minutes reflect that a vote on the Schematic Design Package would occur at the 
Committee’s February 15 meeting. At its January 29 meeting, the Working Group reviewed 
estimated constructions costs of the project, which ranged from $42.5 to $43.8 million, with an 
additional $10 million in “soft costs.”
During a September 22, 2017, meeting, the Committee created four subcommittees “to 
address potential community concerns related to the new building project.” These 
subcommittees were the Publicity Group, Longevity/Resilience Group, Education for the Future 
Group, and Group to Address Concerns with Funds. Each subcommittee consists of two to three 
Committee members. The Publicity Group, Longevity/Resilience Group, and Funding Group 
updated the Committee during Committee meetings held on October 19, 2017, November 9, 
2017, November 30, 2017, and December 14, 2017. At each of these meetings, the Publicity 
Group updated the Committee on its efforts to schedule community meetings and distribute 
information flyers; the Longevity Group updated the Committee on its meetings with the design 
team regarding the durability and energy efficiency of a new building; and the Funding Group 
advised the Committee that it was working on estimates for new construction versus renovation. 
The Education Group updated the Committee during the November 9, 2017, November 30,
2017, and December 14, 2017, meetings advising that it was meeting with school faculty and the 
architects on classroom scope and program needs.
2

===PAGE 3===
On February 2, the Committee held a meeting, in part, to review and discuss the design 
stage of the project. Under the posted topic, “Project Scope & Budget Update,” the Committee 
announced that it would be asked to approve the Schematic Design Package at its next meeting, 
on February 15, including the budget for the project. The Owner’s Project Manager (“OPM”), 
who acts as a liaison between the Town and the MSBA, raised the point that the Committee 
would need to provide the MSBA with a total maximum budget amount prior to the February 15 
meeting. Accordingly, the Committee unanimously voted to permit the OPM to share with the 
MSBA a total maximum budget of $54 million, which was based on the estimated construction 
costs and “soft costs” including fees, equipment and technology, furniture, and testing. The first 
Open Meeting Law complaint was filed shortly after this meeting.
The Committee met again on February 15, in part, to “Vote on Schematic Design 
Package,” as listed on the meeting notice. According to the meeting minutes, at the start of the 
discussion, the Committee determined that the vote taken on February 2 was “discretionary” as it 
was not required by the MSBA. The Committee reviewed revisions to the budget and discussed 
certain of the specific “soft costs,” such as the need for a fire pump and back-up generator, 
architect fees, utilities and equipment, and design contingency. The Committee then reviewed 
and “approved the submission of the Schematic Design (SD) package including the DESE 
narrative and the budget,” to the MSBA. A subsequent Open Meeting law complaint regarding 
the Committee’s failure to list this anticipated vote was filed.
The Committee reviewed both complaints during its March 9 meeting. The Committee 
concluded that it violated the Open Meeting Law on February 2 by taking a vote on the total 
maximum budget when it was not listed on the meeting notice, but that it did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by doing the same during its February 15 meeting. The Committee also 
concluded that neither vote was the result of deliberations of any subcommittee.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined as “a multiple- 
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative 
branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
subcommittee is defined as “any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.” Id.
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of each meeting “at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every notice 
must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2013-39; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.
3

===PAGE 4===
A public body must also “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).
The first complaint alleges that the Working Group created by the Committee on April 
27, 2017, is a subcommittee and, therefore, was required to post notice of, and maintain minutes 
for, its meetings. The Committee agrees that the Working Group it created is a public body and 
as such, should have posted notices of, and created minutes for, all its meetings. Because the 
Working Group failed to post notice and create minutes for meetings held between May 2017 
and February 2018, we therefore find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. In response to the 
complaint, the Committee created notices and minutes for the approximately eleven Working 
Group meetings that were held between May 2017 and the time the complaint was filed in 
February. The Committee has continued to follow the law’s requirements with respect to posting 
notices and creating minutes for all its subsequent Working Group meetings. We commend the 
Committee for promptly creating notices of and minutes for all of its Working Group meetings in 
response to the complaint, and its efforts to ensure future compliance.
The complaint further alleges that, at its February 2 meeting, the Committee voted on a 
topic not posted on its notice. Once again, the Committee agrees that the vote setting a $54- 
million-dollar budget for the Hildreth Elementary School building project was not listed on the 
February 2 meeting notice. It seems clear that the $54-million-dollar budget vote was based on 
the estimated constructions costs discussed by the Working Group at its unposted January 29 
meeting and which it then presented to the Committee for the first time at the February 2 
meeting. However, it does not appear that the Committee anticipated voting on a budget at the 
February 2 meeting. In fact, the minutes from the February 2 meeting specifically indicate that 
the “Committee was not ready to vote on a cost estimate” and that the budget would be further 
reviewed. However, the vote occurred because the OPM recommended that the Committee 
provide the MSBA with a total maximum budget amount prior to the February 15 meeting.
While we agree that a budget vote was not listed on the February 2 notice, we find that such vote 
was unanticipated. Because a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if 
the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by voting on the budget. See OML 2017-2; 
OML 2013-87. Nonetheless, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of 
topics that were not listed in the meeting notice, especially topics of significant public interest, 
until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate 
action by the public body. See OML 2011-23; OML 2013-87; OML 2013-197.
We must determine whether the above violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body has previously been advised 
that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. Here, this Office has not issued any 
previous determinations against the Committee. We decline to find that the Committee’s actions 
were intentional, but rather the result of a misunderstanding of the law’s requirements.
4

===PAGE 5===
The second complaint alleges that, at its February 15 meeting, the Committee held 
another vote on the budget for the school building project, which topic was “based on actions 
and recommendations previously taken in secret by various subcommittees.” The Committee 
maintains that this vote “was not the subject of prior action by a subcommittee” and therefore 
proper. The minutes of certain Committee meetings held between October and December 2017 
reference updates from the Publicity, Sustainability, Funding, and Education Groups. However, 
we have been assured by Committee legal counsel that any updates provided during those 
meetings were not based on actions or recommendations taken by these subcommittees during 
secret meetings. Rather, updates from the subcommittees were actually based on the actions of 
one subcommittee member. It is our understanding that only the Sustainability subcommittee 
met once on November 21, 2017, and that a quorum of the other subcommittees never actually 
met. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee’s version of events and find that 
the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by voting on the school building project 
budget during its February 15 meeting.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by voting on a topic during its February 2 and February 15 meetings. We find that 
the Working Group created by the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post 
notice and create minutes for meetings held between May 2017 and February 2018. We order 
the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Deborah  Skauen-Hinchliffe
Harvard School Building Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
