===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 13 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street  
Springfield, MA 01103 
 
bcoyle@baconwilson.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Coyle:  
 
On December 29, 2023, this office received a complaint from Roxanne Gunther, alleging 
that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 13.
1  You responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated December 4.  The complainant alleges that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to include pending Open Meeting Law complaints on a 
meeting notice and by failing to review the complaints in a meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the October 24 meeting and viewed a video recording of the October 24 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The c omplainant filed five Open Meeting Law complaints 
with the Board on October 5 and October 6.  At its October 24 meeting, during the 
“correspondence” section of “routine business,” the clerk noted “five Open Meeting Law 
complaints by a resident.”  The Board did not discuss the complaints during the meeting nor did 
the Board take any action regarding the complaints such as vote to authorize legal counsel to 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 Recordings of the Board meetings can be accessed at https://m-
pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
respond to the complaints on its behalf.  The complaints were not referenced in the notice of the 
October 24 meeting.  You responded to the five complaints on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
October 25.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Within 14 business days after receiving an Open Meeting 
Law complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial 
action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the Attorney 
General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action 
taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to engage in a 
substantive discussion of the merits of the complaint.  See OML 2020-38; OML 2018-134; OML 
2017-148 (“That the Board may have chosen to refer the complaint rather than discuss its 
substance is the Board’s prerogative.”).  A public body may delegate authority to respond to a 
complaint to a staff member or legal counsel, but the public body must first meet to review the 
complaint.  See OML 2020-164 (“The Board may review the complaint at a meeting and then 
authorize the Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator may receive 
the complaint and draft a response for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not 
remove itself entirely from the process.”)   
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  When an Open Meeting Law complaint is to be 
discussed at a public body’s meeting, it should be included in the meeting notice.  See OML 
2022-220 (meeting notice should generally identify the person who filed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint or include other identifying information about the complaint); OML 2017-63; OML 
2013-82.3     
 
Without explicitly conceding a violation of the Open Meeting Law, the Board 
acknowledges in its response that “proper procedure would have been for the Select Board to 
review the complaint before authorizing legal counsel to respond on its behalf.”  By failing to 
follow the procedure set out in the Open Meeting Law for reviewing and responding to Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Board violated the Law.   
 
We do not separately find a violation of the Open Meeting Law with regard to the 
sufficiency of the notice for the Board’s October 24 meeting, however.  When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the public aware of the discussion topics.  When a public body does not actually engage in 
deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
sufficiency of the meeting notice.  See OML 2020-42; OML 2016-76.  Because the Board did 
not discuss the Open Meeting Law complaints during its October 24 meeting, we cannot find that 
the notice for the October 24 meeting was insufficient for failing to include discussion of the 
complaints.  We note that had the Board discussed the complaints during the meeting, as it 
should have, it would have been required to list the complaints on the meeting notice. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to review the prior Open Meeting Law complaints during a meeting prior to referring 
them to counsel for a response.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Roxanne Gunther (via e-mail: )  
 Monson Town Administrator (via e -mail:  jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Monson Town Clerk (via email:  townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
