===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 5, 2018 
OML 2018-143
Robert W. Galvin, Esq.
Galvin & Galvin, P.C.
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Galvin:
This office received a complaint from Mary Parsons, dated June 28, 2018, alleging that 
the Southfield Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 
25, 2018, and the Board responded by letter dated June 14, 2018. In her complaint, Ms. Parsons 
alleges that the Board created insufficiently detailed meeting minutes.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We spoke with the Board’s legal counsel by 
telephone on August 15, 2018. We reviewed an e-mail from the Board’s legal counsel dated 
August 14, 2018, and we reviewed an e-mail from Southfield Redevelopment Authority 
Executive Director Paul Niedzwiecki dated August 24, 2018. Finally, we reviewed the minutes 
of executive session meetings held by the Board on November 14, 2016; March 20, 2017; and 
April 24, 2017.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board has a practice when entering executive session 
of creating “placeholder” minutes, a short blurb explaining why the Board entered executive 
session. The Board’s practice is to distribute these abbreviated minutes until the full executive 
session minutes are approved and released.
During a meeting held on May 2, 2018, the Board approved the minutes of several 
executive session meetings, including one held on November 14, 2016. On May 3, 2018, the 
complainant requested the minutes of the November 14, 2016 executive session. On May 7, 
2018, the Board’s executive director sent the complainant an e-mail containing the abbreviated

===PAGE 2===
minutes of the November 14, 2016 executive session. After listing the date and time, and the 
members present, these abbreviated minutes read, in their entirety, as follows:
Purpose to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property.
Presentation and discussion with Barry, Ryan and Murray of LStar as well as SRA board
members listed.
After receiving these abbreviated minutes, the complainant discovered several other sets 
of abbreviated minutes, which prompted her to file the present complaint.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2013-64.1 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106.
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board created insufficiently detailed meeting 
minutes. The abbreviated minutes, taken alone, would not satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (minutes must contain “the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes”). However, the Board has provided us with the approved, 
released minutes of executive sessions held on November 14, 2016 and several other dates, and 
these minutes are sufficiently detailed to satisfy the Board’s obligations under the law. The 
understandable confusion here stemmed from the distribution of the abbreviated minutes, but, 
because the Board has demonstrated to us that it indeed had created and maintained sufficiently 
detailed meeting minutes, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.2
While not explicitly raised in the complaint, we note that the Board failed to provide the 
complainant with the requested November 16, 2014 minutes within the time frame required by 
law. Because the November 16, 2014 executive session minutes had been released at the time 
they were requested, they should have been provided to the complainant within ten days. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). Instead, the Board provided an abbreviated version of the minutes. We 
remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law.
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting.
2 If the Board wishes to continue creating abbreviated executive session minutes, we suggest adding standardized 
language indicating that the abbreviated minutes are a temporary placeholder and will be supplemented once the full 
minutes are approved and released.
2

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
'*7
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Mary Parsons
Southfield Redevelopment Authority Board of Directors
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
