===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 9, 2014 
OML 2014-51 
Jeanne S. Conroy 
Chair, Wellesley Planning Board 
Town Hall 
525 Washington Street 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Conroy: 
This office received a complaint from Janet Giele, dated January 5, 2014, alleging that 
the Wellesley Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint alleges that the Board filed a 17-page decision regarding its denial of an 
application for a special permit without holding a public meeting to approve the written decision. 
The complaint was filed with the Board on or about November 24, 2013. The Board responded 
by letter dated December 9, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating over email to prepare a final, written decision. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the November 24, 2013 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's December 9, 2013 
response to the complaint; and the January 5, 2014 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, 
we reviewed memoranda dated November 27, 2013 and December 6, 2013, written by Ms. Giele 
and provided by her to our office. Finally, we reviewed a series of emails, provided by Ms. 
Giele, sent between Board members and Board staff regarding the Board's written decision 
denying an application for a special permit. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. On September 
21, 2013, the Board held the first of two public hearings to consider an application for a special 
permit for a senior center project referred to as the Tolles Parsons Center. The Board held a 
o 
===PAGE 2===
second public hearing during its open meeting on October 21, 2013. At the conclusion of that 
hearing, the Board voted to approve the application for the special permit, by a vote of three in 
favor, and two against. Because the vote required a supermajority of four out of the five 
members, the motion to approve the special permit failed. 
State law requires that the Planning Board issue a written decision within 14 days of its 
vote. G.L. c. 40A, § 9. On October 25, 2013, Assistant Planning Director Ethan Parsons 
informed the Board members via email of the 14-day deadline, and asked if the Board would be 
meeting so that its members could discuss and approve a written draft of the October 21, 2013 
decision to deny the Tolles Parsons Center special permit request. Mr. Parsons noted in his 
email that "[s]hould the Board not wish to convene to discuss the draft, somehow we'll have to 
work together so that everyone signs it, though it appears at least [Town Counsel's] view is that 
this way there wouldn't be an opportunity to seriously discuss the content, per the open meeting 
law." Mr. Parsons attached to his email a draft of the Tolles Parsons Center decision, drafted by 
him. 
On October 28, 2013, a representative from the Wellesley Permanent Building 
Committee sent the Board a letter via email requesting that the Board reconsider its denial of the 
Tolles Parsons Center special permit. Later that day, Board Chair Jeanne Conroy1 emailed the 
Board to schedule a meeting for November 4, 2013 to discuss the draft of the Tolles Parsons 
Center decision and to consider the Permanent Building Committee's reconsideration request. 
On October 29, 2013, Chair Conroy emailed the Board again to explain that she'd just learned 
that the deadline for the written decision was November 4, 2013. She asked each Board member 
to review the draft decision and send comments directly to Mr. Parsons. She proposed that the 
Board members then review the final draft and sign the document individually before the 
November 4, 2013 deadline. 
On October 30, 2013, Chair Conroy emailed Mr. Parsons with her suggested edits to the 
draft decision. Mr. Parsons then sent an updated draft of the decision back to the entire Board, 
asking them to send their individual comments to him. Board member Neal Glick responded 
with his comments to the draft, copying the entire Board. Board member Sara Preston emailed 
her comments to Mr. Parsons, coping only Chair Conroy. Board members Deborah Carpenter 
and Catherine Johnson each emailed Mr. Parsons to say that they had no further comments on 
the draft. On November 3, 2013, Mr. Glick sent another email to Mr. Parsons and the other 
Board members with additional comments on the draft. On November 4, 2013, the day of the 
deadline for the Board to provide a written decision of its denial of the Tolles Parsons Center 
special permit request, Mr. Parsons emailed the Board members to inform them that that 
evening's meeting had been canceled, that the final written decision was ready to be signed, and 
asked each of them to come to the Planning Office to sign the decision. All Board members 
signed the decision that day, either in person or via email. 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently. 
To that end, the law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "quorum" is defined as "a 
simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or 
special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. All deliberations must occur 
during a meeting. Id. 
The Board's motion during its October 21, 2013 meeting to approve the special permit 
request for the Tolles Parsons Center failed. The Board then had 14 days to file a written 
decision with the Town Clerk. G.L. c. 40A, § 9. Over the course of a week, the Board members 
made comments over email on a draft decision that was prepared by a member of the Board's 
staff. At times, the comments were made directly to the staff member, and then updated drafts 
were sent back to the Board members for review. The Board members then reviewed the final 
decision over email before signing it individually. This process was not proper, and should have 
been conducted during a meeting. While Board members may review a draft decision prepared 
by staff, and may send individual comments back to that staff person, the final draft should be 
discussed and approved during an open meeting. The Board may not use a staff member to 
facilitate a deliberation outside of a meeting. See OML 2013-186; OML 2012-105.2 
Additionally, we find that Board member Neal Click's October 30, 2013 and November 3, 2013 
emails, in which he provided comments on the proposed draft to Mr. Parsons and copied the 
entire Board, constituted impermissible deliberation. See OML 2013-17; OML 2011-37. 
That the document being discussed was a written decision that followed a hearing does 
not change the outcome. While we acknowledge that a previous decision of the Massachusetts 
Appeals Court held that this task is exempt from the law's requirements, the language of the 
Open Meeting Law has since changed. See Yaro v. Board of Appeals of Newburyport. 10 Mass. 
App. Ct. 587, 591 (1980) (stating that the old Municipal Open Meeting Law did not "require a 
board to hold a public hearing for the purpose of reducing to writing a decision reached at a 
meeting which was open to the public and where accurate records of the meeting are kept and the 
substance of the decision was made known to the public."). At the time of the Yaro decision, 
"deliberation" was defined as "a verbal exchange between a quorum of members of a 
governmental body attempting to arrive at a decision on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 39, § 23A (repealed 2009). Under the current version of the law, 
deliberation includes all oral or written communication between or among a quorum of a public 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
body on any public business within its jurisdiction. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, a communication 
may constitute deliberation even where the members have already arrived at a decision. See id. 
Although the definition of deliberation has changed, portions of this process may still 
occur outside of an open meeting. A public body may delegate the task of drafting a decision to 
a member of the public body or to a staff member, who can then distribute the draft to the public 
body to be discussed at a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-4. Thus, it was permissible for 
the Board to delegate the task of drafting the written Tolles Parsons Center decision to Mr. 
Parsons, a member of the Planning Department staff. It was also permissible for Mr. Parsons to 
request the Board members send him their individual comments. Once Mr. Parsons had 
collected the comments and incorporated them into the draft, however, the draft should have 
been reviewed, discussed, and approved at an open meeting. Furthermore, we note that once a 
written decision is approved in an open meeting, the act of signing the final decision is a 
ministerial act, which can be conducted outside of a meeting. See OML 2013-84 (finding that a 
board of selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law when a quorum signed, outside of a 
meeting, a memorandum of understanding where the terms had been previously discussed and 
approved during a meeting). 
While we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, we do not find this to be 
an intentional violation. Although Town Counsel warned the Board that it could not discuss 
substantive changes over email without violating the Open Meeting Law, the Board mistakenly 
believed that there communications were permissible communications and not "substantive." 
We remind the Board that all communications between and among a quorum concerning public 
business within its jurisdiction is deliberation, save for the few narrow exceptions outlined in the 
law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a 
meeting to draft and approve the written decision denying a special permit for the Tolles Parsons 
Center. 
We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution the Board that a future, similar violation may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation. Furthermore, we order the Board to disclose at its next regularly scheduled meeting 
those emails referenced in this letter that were sent between and among a quorum of the Board 
concerning the Tolles Parsons Center decision. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerel 
Jwiathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Janet Giele 
Brian R. Falk, Esq. 
Wayne D. Bennett, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 