===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 30, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 216 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Edward Pikula, Esq.  
Hampden County Regional Retirement Board 
67 Hunt Street, Suite 116 
Agawam, MA  01001 
empikula@outlook.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pikula: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Gold on August 23, 2022, alleging that the 
Hampden County Regional Retirement Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 13, 2022, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 28, 2022.1  The complaint alleges that 
during the Board’s July 13 meeting, the Board failed to distribute a presentation handout to 
Board members participating in the meeting remotely and to members of the public. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  
 
The complaint alleges that during the Board’s July 13 meeting, a representative from the 
Massachusetts Pension Reserves Investment Management Board made a presentation to the 
Board, which included reviewing in detail a handout that was distributed to the Board members 
present in the meeting room.  The complaint alleges that the handout was not made available in 
advance of the meeting, may not have been provided to two Board members who participated in 
the meeting remotely, and was not made available to members of the public.  The Board 
acknowledges that the handout was not provided to the Board members participating in the 
meeting remotely, and asserts that the Board was not aware the presenter would use the handout 
during the presentation until it was distribute to those present during the meeting. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law expressly authorizes remote participation by members of a public 
body not present at the meeting location.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d).  The Attorney General’s 
regulations further establish procedures for remote participation.  Relevant here, the regulations 
provide: 
 
When f
easible, the chair or, in the chair’s absence, the person chairing the 
meeting, shall distribute to remote participants, in advance of the meeting, copies 
of any documents or exhibits that he or she reasonably anticipates will be used 
during the meeting.  If used during the meeting, such documents shall be part of 
the official record of the meeting, and shall be listed in the meeting minutes and 
retained in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22. 
 
940 CMR 29.10(7)(e).  Contrary to the complainant’s assertion, the Open Meeting Law does not 
dictate that if a document cannot be made available to remote participants, then it must not be 
made available to any public body member, nor does the Open Meeting Law require that the 
agenda item be postponed until the document can be distributed at a future meeting. 
 
 Documents and exhibits that are used by a public body at an open or executive session 
meeting “shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(d).  Furthermore, all documents and exhibits that are used during an open session 
meeting must be listed in the meeting minutes and “shall be public records in their entirety and 
not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions” to the public records law, 
although certain material may be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel information.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (e).  Although documents used by a public body during an open session 
meeting must be provided in response to a public records request, there is no requirement in the 
Open Meeting Law that the public body affirmatively provide copies of those documents to 
persons in attendance at a meeting.  See OML 2022-133; OML 2022-19; OML 2015-199.
 2  
Further, if the documents are requested by an attendee during the meeting, the public body's 
response is governed by the Public Records Law, which requires only that the public body 
respond to the request within 10 days.  See G. L. c. 66, § 10(a-b); 950 CMR 32.05(2).   
 
We are satisfied that the Board’s Chair did not reasonably anticipate that the PRIM 
representative would distribute a handout for use during the Board’s July 13 meeting, and 
therefore the Chair could not feasibly have distributed the handout in advance of the meeting to 
the two Board members who participated in the meeting remotely.  Furthermore, regardless of 
whether the handout was available to the Board’s remote participants, the Board was not 
required to provide the handout to members of the public in attendance at the meeting.  
Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in either manner alleged. 
 
Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we encourage 
public bodies to make efforts to solicit documents and exhibits from speakers in advance so that 
they can be made available to remote participants and we also encourage public bodies to 
provide meeting attendees with copies of documents that are distributed to public body members 
for use during an open session meeting.  Providing copies of documents that the public body 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
intends to discuss promotes transparency and public access to government deliberations, 
particularly when viewing the same documents that public body members are viewing would be 
helpful to following the conversation during the meeting.  See OML 2015-199.  We commend 
the Board for committing to request that presenters at future meetings provide a copy of any 
presentation in advance of the meeting. 
  
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mark Gold (via e- mail: ) 
 Ham
pden County Regional Retirement Board (via e-mail: kmartin@hcrb.org) 
 Alfredo ViVenzio (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
