===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 20, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 193 
 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Austin, 
 
 This office received a complaint from Mark Del Franco on March 4, 2021, and a second 
complaint on June 7, 2021, alleging that the Provincetown Select Board (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about January 5, the second complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about May 6, and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letters dated 
February 11, and June 15, respectively.  The first complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.2  The second complaint alleges that i) the 
Board entered into executive session for an improper purpose during a February 8 meeting, ii) 
the Board failed to release the February 8 executive session minutes when the purpose had 
passed; and iii) the minutes of the February 8 meeting are inaccurate.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by approving inaccurate 
minutes of the February 8 executive session meeting.  We find that the Board did not violate the 
law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, the complaints filed with our office 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 This complaint also alleges the Board violated the Town Charter which requires that a public body member under 
investigation be notified in writing and have the right to a public hearing.  The Division of Open Government is 
charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting Law , G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Board could be a 
violation of the Town Charter or town bylaws.  See OML Declination 1-19-16 (Southborough Zoning Board of 
Appeals); OML Declination 3-11-13 (Abington Conservation Commission). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
requesting further review, the Board’s supplemental response to our office dated April 20 and the 
complainant’s supplemental response to our office dated April 27.  In addition, we reviewed the 
notices and open session minutes of Board meetings held on November 23, 2020, and February 
8, the executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on February 8, as well as an audio 
recording of the November 23, 2020, meeting.3  Finally, we spoke with the complainant on 
August 16.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.  
 
The Board held a virtual meeting on November 23, 2020, during which it accepted public 
comment.  Vice Chair John Golden made an announcement that individuals had three minutes to 
speak during public comment.  The Board then heard from four individuals, one of whom was 
the complainant, Mark Del Franco, who was a Finance Committee member at that time.  The 
first two individuals expressed their concern that members of the Finance Committee may have 
violated the Town’s Code of Conduct.  Mr. Del Franco then spoke and suggested that the 
previous two speakers “have been using public comment to complain about the FINCOM 
Chair’s behavior” and asserted that any alleged inappropriate conduct had happened in years 
past.  One Board member then stated that there was a time limit for public comment.  Vice Chair 
Golden responded that Mr. Del Franco “was up to it” and advised Mr. Del Franco that his time 
was up.  After Mr. Del Franco stopped speaking, a timer can be heard beeping and then a 
muffled curse word followed by an indecipherable word.   
 
On November 29, 2020, Board members Lise King4 and Louise Venden separately 
emailed the Interim Town Manager to express their concern with the muffled, under the breath 
comment that was made after the conclusion of Mr. Del Franco’s public comments.  Both Board 
members thought the indecipherable word was a derogatory term used against women and 
attributed it to Mr. Del Franco.  Board Chair Dave Abramson and Board Secretary Elizabeth 
Paine were copied on the emails.  After listening to an audio recording of the meeting, both Ms. 
Paine and the Interim Town Manager concluded that the muffled comment was made by Vice 
Chair Golden and that the first word of the comment included a curse word but the second word 
was not a derogatory term.  On November 30, 2020, Ms. Paine emailed Chair Abramson and 
Vice Chair Golden, while the Interim Town Manager emailed Ms. Venden and called Ms. King 
to explain their findings.   
 
On December 1, 2020, Vice Chair Golden apologized in a public post on the town’s 
website for the muffled, under the breath comment, saying he used an “F-bomb” while trying to 
silence a timer on his phone.  On December 2, 2020, Ms. King asked the Interim Town Manager 
to contact Mr. Golden and “ask him what the second word was so that we can have this issue 
resolved?”  That same day, Ms. King spoke with Mr. Golden herself about the second muffled 
word, which he recalled as being phone or thing. 
 
3 A recording of the Board meeting held on November 23, 2020 is available at: 
http://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?&PGD=provinctv&eID=2009 . 
4 Ms. King is no longer a member of the Board. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 8 at 6:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed nine topics, including an executive session “pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, s. 21, purposes 
(1) and (7) (Open Meeting Law) – Open Meeting Law complaint filed against the Select Board 
from Mark Del Franco, dated January 5, 2021, acknowledgement of the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, discussion and response to same; votes may be taken.” 
 
The February 8 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, after conducting all 
open session business, the Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session 
to discuss the first Open Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant against the Board.  
The minutes state that “the Select Board reviewed and discussed the draft letter of response from 
Town Counsel.”  The minutes then reflect that the Board unanimously voted to “finalize the 
Board’s response to the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Mr. Del Franco with Town 
Counsel . . . and issue such response.”  The Board reconvened in open session and unanimously 
voted again to “finalize” and “issue” the Board’s response to the complaint.  The Board then 
adjourned the meeting. 
 
On April 21, Mr. Del Franco emailed the Board “requesting the release of the” executive 
session minutes of the Board meeting held on February 8.  During an April 26 meeting, the 
Board reviewed and approved for release the February 8 executive session meeting minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Properly Posted Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined in part as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail between or a among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction...”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.   
 
The first complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting.  On November 29, 2020, two Board members separately emailed the Interim 
Town Manager and copied the Chair of the Board, as well as the Board Secretary, regarding the 
inappropriate comment they thought they heard during the Board’s November 23, 2020, meeting.  
Although the chair was copied on both emails, he did not respond to either email.  We find the 
individual communications here to be between one Board member and individual public 
officials, who are not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Because the communications did not 
involve a quorum of Board members, the communications did not constitute deliberation.  See 
OML 2020-71.5  As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Moreover, any emails or telephone calls from either the Board Secretary or Interim Town 
Manager were only sent or made to a subquorum of the Board, that is either to one or two 
members.  However, even if such communications were sent to a quorum of the Board, because 
these communications were initiated by an individual public official who was not a member of 
the Board, we do not consider them to be deliberation.  See OML 2021-113; OML 2015-77.   
 
The complaint further alleges that Ms. Venden and Ms. King must have communicated 
with each other because of the “near-verbatim complaints” that each simultaneously filed on 
November 29, 2020.  Ms. Venden asserts that she did not speak with Ms. King prior to filing her 
concerns with the Interim Town Manager.  Absent specific evidence to the contrary, we credit 
the public body’s version of events that it did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting.  
See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.  Furthermore, although we find no evidence of any 
discussion between these two members outside of a meeting, discussion that reached two 
members out of the five-member Board would not constitute deliberation in any event.  See 
OML 2021-30.     
  
Finally, with respect to the complainant’s concerns that the Board engaged in serial 
deliberation by asking town staff to conduct an investigation and copying the Chair on those 
communications, we find that the Board did not engage in serial communications.  A public body 
may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication among public 
body members on matters that the Board would otherwise be required to save for discussion at an 
open meeting.  We find no indication that occurred here.  See OML 2016-172; see also Dist. Atty 
for the Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009).  We 
acknowledge that certain Board members asked the Interim Town Administrator to investigate a 
phrase uttered during the November 23, 2020, meeting and thereafter to contact Mr. Golden to 
determine the exact phrase he used during that meeting.  However, we find that the 
communications at issue here fell outside the Board’s jurisdiction where they did not involve the 
public body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration.  See OML 2018-1.  
Rather, the Board was simply trying to determine the exact phrase that was spoken during the 
November 23, 2020, meeting and who had said it.  Therefore, we find that these communications 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. The Board Met in Executive Session for a Proper Purpose on February 8 and 
Timely Released the Minutes of the February 8 Meeting. 
 
The second complaint challenges the propriety of the Board’s February 8 executive 
session meeting.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the 
vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  Before entering the executive 
session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 
455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper”).   
 
On February 8, the Board convened in executive session to discuss the first Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed by Mr. Del Franco.  We have stated that public bodies may meet in 
executive session under Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law complaints against the body.  
See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6.  Executive session Purpose 
1 allows a public body to discuss “the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  We have determined that an Open Meeting Law complaint 
is by its nature “brought against[] a public officer,” namely, the members of the public body.  
See OML 2012-119.  Accordingly, we find that the Board was permitted to conduct its review of 
the complaint in executive session during the February 8 meeting, and therefore did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The complainant requested “release of” the February 8 executive session minutes on 
April 21.  During its next meeting on April 26, the Board reviewed those minutes and determined 
that the minutes could be released.  Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure 
to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but 
no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been 
served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless 
the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, 
in whole or in part, from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.  If a public body has not 
conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, 
the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its 
next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  Where the 
Board conducted a review of the minutes at its next meeting, which was within five days of the 
complainant’s request, it complied with the Open Meeting Law.  It does not appear, however, 
that the Board made an announcement at its next open session meeting that it had approved the 
executive session minutes of the February 8 meeting for release to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 22(g)(1).  We remind the Board of its obligations under the law. 
 
III. The Executive Session Minutes of the February 8 Meeting are Insufficiently 
Detailed. 
 
The second complaint further alleges that the minutes of the February 8 executive session 
are insufficiently detailed.  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2016-105; 
OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2012-106.  While minutes 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.  However, the Open Meeting Law does require that meeting minutes include more than 
a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the law requires that the 
minutes summarize the discussions that were held.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  Here, the 
minutes of the February 8 executive session meeting reflect the Board’s 30-minute discussion 
with the following sentence: “the Select Board reviewed and discussed the draft letter of 
response from Town Counsel.”  We acknowledge that the minutes include the action taken by 
the Board with respect to the complaint.  However, the minutes must also include a summary of 
the discussions on each topic.  Because the February 8 executive session meeting minutes fail to 
include any summary of the discussions that took place with respect to this topic, we find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-90.  We order the Board to revise the 
February 8 meeting minutes to include a more detailed summary of that discussion.   
         
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in the executive session minutes of its February 8 meeting.  We 
order the Board to revise those meeting minutes and to certify to this office within forty-five (45) 
days of the date of this letter that it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We also order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
         
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Mark Del Franco – By email only:  
Provincetown Select Board c/o Secretary Elizabeth Paine – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
