===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 30, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 131  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph Callanan, Esq. 
Brookline Town Counsel  
jcallanan@brooklinema.gov   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Elizabeth Childs on May 11, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Brookline Select Board (the “Board”) and Police Chief Advisory Selection Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on April 1, and after an extension of time granted by this office, 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 4.
2 The complaint alleges that the 
Committee is a subcommittee of the Board and that the Committee failed to hold meetings in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee was not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the 
request for further review, and a video recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting.
3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. In 1985 the legislature passed An Act Establishing the 
Position of Town Administrator in the Town of Brookline, Chapter 270 of the Acts of 1985 
(“Chapter 270”). Section 2 of Chapter 270 states, in part, that  
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise stated. 
2 We note that this office granted the Board two extensions to respond to the complaint, with the second extension 
giving the Board until May 3 to respond.  
3 A recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lxPKyyGPgg. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The administrator shall be the chief admin istrative officer of the town. Without 
limiting the foregoing, the administrator shall perform and discharge the following 
functions and duties: 
. . . 
(b) recruitment and recommendations for appointment by the boa rd of selectmen 
of all department heads, except the librarian, school personnel, treasurer/collector, 
town clerk, and any department head whose appointment is otherwise provided for 
by statute. 
 
1985 Mass. Acts Chapter 270, Section 2. 
 
Over the years Section 2 of Chapter 270 has been amended several times. Notably, in 
1991 the legislature amended Section 2 of Chapter 270 to include after the word “statute” the 
language “and in making such recommendations the administrator may in his discretion 
recommend for appointment as department head single candidates who the board of selectmen 
shall either appoint or reject until one is appointed.” 1991 Mass. Acts Chapter 427, Section 1.  
 
Most recently, in 2012, the legislature passed An Act Relative to the Appointment of 
Department Heads in the Town of Brookline, which states as follows:  
 
Section 2 of chapter 270 of the acts of 1985 is hereby amended by striking out 
clause (b), as most recently amended by section 1 of chapter 427 of the acts of 1991, 
and inserting in place thereof the following clause:- 
 
(b) recruitment and recommendations for appointment by the boa rd of selectmen 
of all department heads, except the librari an, the superintendent of schools, the 
treasurer-collector, the town clerk, and a ny other department h ead who is elected 
or who is appointed by a nother elected board or comm ission; provided, however, 
that in the case of the director of recreation, any recommendation shall be approved 
by the park and recreation commission and in the case of the director of the council 
on aging, any recommendation shall be approved by the council on aging, and in 
making such recommendations, the administrator may in the administrator’s 
discretion recommend for appointment as department head single candidates whom 
the board of selectmen shall either appoint or reject until 1 is appointed. 
 
2012 Mass. Acts Chapter 76, Section 1. 
 
In or around July of 2021 the Town of Brookline began searching for a new Chief of 
Police. As part of the search process, Melvin Kleckner, the Town Administrator, created the 
Committee, which he referred to as an ad hoc screening panel. The Committee was created to 
provide the Town Administrator with feedback on candidate interviews and to recommend 
candidates for the Town Administrator to consider. The Committee’s members were as follows: 
Board member Raul Fernandez, School Committee Chair Suzanne Federspiel, Small Business 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Development Committee member Jenn Mason, Women’s Commission member Felina Silver 
Robinson, and Advisory Committee member Alok Somani.4 
 
By memorandum dated March 28, the Town Administrator recommended that the Board 
appoint Ashley Gonzalez as Brookline’s next Chief of Police.  
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 5. Included on the notice was 
the topic “Police Chief Appointment Question of approving the appointment of the Chief of 
Police and approving his employment contract as recommended by the Town Administrator.” 
During the Board’s April 5 meeting it voted to approve the appointment of Mr. Gonzalez as 
Chief of Police and to approve his employment contract as negotiated by the Town 
Administrator.      
 
Having completed its work, the Committee disbanded and is no longer in existence. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. 
“Public body” is defined, in relevant part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee 
or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, 
region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve 
a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “subcommittee” is defined as a “multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” Id. The Supreme Judicial Court 
recognized an exception to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of public body in Connelly v. 
School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an 
individual public official creates a group to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the 
sole authority to make, that group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Id.  
 
 Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee is a public body subject to the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law and that the Committee failed to comply with those 
requirements. We disagree and find that the Committee fits squarely within the Connelly 
exception. Here, although the Board has final appointing authority, the Town Administrator is 
statutorily required to recruit and recommend candidates for appointment as department heads. 
See Chapter 270, as amended by 2012 Mass. Acts Chapter 76, Section 1. It is this task, the task 
of recommending appointments for department heads to the Board, that falls solely within the 
authority of the Town Administrator. As the Supreme Judicial Court explained,  
 
 
4 In the complaint and request for further review the Complainant alleges that the Town Administrator was also a 
member of the Committee. In a memorandum to the Board dated March 28 the Town Administrator identifies the 
above individuals as the sole members of the Committee. Aside from the assertions made in the complaint and 
request for further review, we find no other evidence suggesting that the Town Administrator was himself a member 
of the Committee. Regardless, even if the Town Administrator was a member of the Committee, that fact would not 
alter our finding that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-38. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Of special significance is the fact that the superintendent, because he is clearly not 
a “governmental body”, could, by himself, have accomplished the task of screening 
and interviewing candidates in a closed session, entirely free from the requirements 
of the open meeting law. This was his independent and ex clusive statutory 
responsibility . . . and the selection committee was assembled merely to assist him 
in carrying out his responsibility. 
 
Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235-36. Here, we find that the Committee, created by the Town 
Administrator to advise him on a task he could have accomplished by himself entirely free 
from the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, fell within the Connelly exception and 
was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee was not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       E l i z a b e t h  C a r n e s  F l y n n  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brookline Select Board (via email: SelectBoard@brooklinema.gov) 
Melvin Kleckner, Brookline Town Administrator (via email: 
mkleckner@brooklinema.gov) 
Elizabeth Childs (via e-mail: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 In the request for further review the Complainant asserts that because the Committee was made up of members of 
public bodies the Committee does not fall within the Connelly exception. We disagree. We have found that other 
bodies fell within the Connelly exception even where their membership included members of public bodies subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-78; OML 2020-118.  
