===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 3, 2019
OML 2019-59
Sean Fair, Chair
Wayland Conservation Commission 
Town Building 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Chairman Fair:
This office received a complaint from George Harris on May 7, 2019, alleging that the 
Wayland Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on March 5, 2019, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated March 25, 2019.1 In his complaint, Mr. Harris 
alleges that the Commission improperly entered into executive session in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law during its February 7, 2019, meeting to discuss a draft conservation restriction.
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing the draft conservation restriction in an executive session. In reaching a determination, 
we reviewed the complaint, the public body’s response and the request for further review filed 
with our office. In addition, we also reviewed the posted notice of the February 7, 2019, meeting 
as well as the open and executive session minutes regarding the draft conservation restriction.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On February 7, 2019, at a duly noticed public meeting, 
Chairman Fair moved that the Commission enter executive session for the following purposes: 
“[T]o discuss approving and releasing Executive Session meeting minutes from March 20, 2014, 
December 18, 2014, September 24, 2015, November 4, 2015, July 21, 2016, November 2, 2017, 
April 26, 2018, and May 10, 2018 and to discuss the draft conservation restriction for Town 
Center parcels.” Feb. 7 meeting minutes (emphasis added).
1 We consider the complaint to have been properly filed under 940 CMR 29.05(3) because Mr. Harris sent his 
complaint on the required form to both the Conservation Administrator and Town Clerk, asking that the complaint 
be forwarded immediately to Chairman Fair.
o
1
AIM

===PAGE 2===
The Commission, having properly and unanimously voted, then entered executive session 
for 20 minutes. During that session, the Commission reviewed executive session minutes from 
eight previous meetings. The minutes from this part of the executive session remain confidential. 
The Commission then discussed a proposed conservation restriction relating to parcels of land in 
the Town Center area. Specifically, the Commission discussed the feasibility of revising the 
boundaries, control and use of certain parcels. The Commission concluded its executive session 
at 9:39pm with another unanimous vote.
DISCUSSION
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). 
One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or 
value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). General 
discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, including discussions regarding 
the imposition of conservation restrictions, where there is no negotiating position to protect, do 
not fall within the executive session purpose. See OML 2016-93, OML 2015-167.
Here, the Commission in its response letter to the Complaint asserts that its deliberations 
concerning the proposed Town Center conservation restriction were permissible under Purpose 
6. We disagree. Although the conservation restriction did relate to real property in a general 
sense, the discussion did not relate to the purchase, exchange, lease or value of the property. 
Rather, the executive session minutes make clear that the discussion related to the revision of 
boundaries, control and use of certain parcels. Furthermore, in order to invoke Purpose 6, the 
chair of a public body must declare in open session that holding its discussion in an open 
meeting would have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body. Here, no 
such declaration was made. Since the conservation restriction discussions did not fit within a 
proper purpose for executive session, we find the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing an improper topic in executive session. We note that the Commission voted to release 
its executive session minutes regarding the conservation restriction after the complaint was filed 
and therefore no further relief is necessary.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerelv.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
2

===PAGE 3===
cc: George Harris
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
