===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 193 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Ned Chatelain 
Chair, Brewster Select Board 
nchatelain@brewster-ma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Chatelain: 
 
This office received a complaint from Carol Marie Anderson alleging that the Brewster 
Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1 The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 25, 2022; the Board did not 
respond.
2  
 
We understand the complaint to concern the Board’s use of Zoom to provide public 
access to its meetings held between May and October of 2022. In particular, the complaint raises 
concerns about the use of Zoom in providing public access because the Complainant does not 
have regular access to the internet and because the use of Zoom may have prohibited the 
Complainant, and others similarly situated, from providing public comment during the meetings 
at issue.
3 The complaint requests, in part, that the Board allow in-person public access to its 
meetings.    
 
 
1 There were several communications between our office and the Complainant attempting to clarify whether the 
Complainant was seeking further review of the complaint. On September 21, 2023, we received an email which 
clarified that the Complainant was in fact seeking further of the complaint.   
2 We remind the Board that within 14 business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the Chair must 
distribute the complaint to all members of the Board, the Board must meet to review the complaint, and the Board 
must then respond to the complainant in writing and provide our office with a copy of the complaint and the 
response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 The complaint specifically raises allegations about an April 4, 2022, meeting during which the Complainant was 
unable to actively participate. We remind the Complainant that complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting 
Law must be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05( 4). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint as well as 
email communications from the Complainant.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to me
mbers of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically 
present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. 
See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.4 However, Section 20 of 
Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures 
Adopted During the State of Emergency, allows public bodies to provide the public with 
“adequate, alternative” access to meetings, such as through telephone, internet or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to clearly 
follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring, instead of 
providing in-person access. See Chapter 20, § 20(b); OML 2021-135. Although public bodies are 
not required to provide multiple means of access to their meetings, we encourage public bodies 
to provide multiple means of access when possible and remind public bodies that in the spirit of 
the Open Meeting Law, they should strive to make their meetings as accessible as possible. 
 
Next, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
par
ticipation in its meetings; rather, the Law gives the chair of the public body discretion to 
decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting, and if public comment will be 
permitted, to set restrictions on public comment. See G.L. c. 30A § 20(g) (“No person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the 
request of the chair, be silent.”); OML 2019-138; OML 2020-9; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; 
OML 2012-78. Although the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to allow public 
comment or questions during meetings, we encourage public bodies to allow for as much public 
participation as time and circumstances permit. 
 
 Because t
he Board was not required to provide both remote and in-person access to its 
meetings, and because the Board was not required to allow for public comment, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Law as alleged. However, we understand from communications with 
the Complainant that, subsequent to the complaint, the Board has changed its practice and is now 
holding meetings with both remote and in-person access options. We commend the Board for 
taking this action as this serves to provide the greatest access to the public, thus furthering the 
purpose and spirit of the Open Meeting Law.  
  
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Peter Lombardi, Town Manager (via email: plombardi@brewster-ma.gov)  
Collette Williams, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@brewster-ma.gov) 
Carol Marie Anderson (via email: ) 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
