===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
October 20, 2011 
OML 2011 — 41 
Louis Ross, Esq. 
Deutsch Williams 
One Design Center Place 
Suite 600 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ross: 
This office received a complaint from Martha Gjesteby on or about February 22, 2011, 
alleging that the Town of Cohasset Board of Water Commissioners (the "Commission") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about December 22, 2010, and the Commission responded to the original 
complaint by letter dated February 10, 2011. In her complaint, Ms. Gjesteby alleges that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly post notice for a meeting held 
on December 7, 2010. She also alleges that "the abutters were not notified" and that "there was 
no printed list for the assembly also there was no tally of the assembly." Finally, she requests 
that the Commission "have a posted meeting with printed answers available for the meeting and 
discussion." 
We reviewed the December 22, 2010 and February 22, 2011 complaints; the 
Commission's February 10, 2011 response; a May 5, 2011 letter from the Commission to our 
office in response to a request for documents; the meeting notice and open session minutes from 
the Commission's March 1, 2011 meeting; and an undated newspaper brief from the Cohasset 
Mariner. Finally, we conducted telephone interviews in October 2011 with Commissioner Peter 
DeCaprio and former Selectwoman Karen Quigley. We appreciate the patience of the parties as 
we considered this complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
December 7, 2010, an event was held at the Deer Hill School and led by Commissioner 
1 
===PAGE 2===
DeCaprio. During the event, Commissioner DeCaprio presented answers to questions about the 
Bear Hill Access Road that had been raised during a public meeting of the Commission on 
October 19, 2010. 
No notice was posted for the December 7, 2010 event per the Open Meeting Law, 
however a news brief announcing a "Second forum on Bear Hill issue" appeared in the Cohasset 
Mariner for two consecutive weeks prior to the meeting. The brief stated, "The Water 
Department is hosting a follow-up meeting regarding the Bear Hill tank access road on Tuesday, 
Dec. 7 at Deer Hill School . . . The department will review its findings from questions raised at 
the first public forum." No minutes were kept or official recordings made of the event. 
At the time the December 7, 2010 event occurred, the Commission had three members. 
While there is some disagreement about whether or not a second Commissioner was present and 
sitting in the audience at the beginning of the December 7, 2010 event, it is undisputed that 
Commissioner DeCaprio sat alone in the front of the room and was the only Commissioner to 
speak at the event. Commissioner DeCaprio read through a list of answers to the questions 
posed at the Commission's previous meeting and, though there is disagreement about the subject 
and extent of the discussion that followed, it is clear that some conversation with the audience 
did occur. Several members of the Board of Selectmen were also in attendance, but sat in the 
audience and participated only through public comment. 
On March 1, 2011, the Selectmen and the Commissioners held a joint public meeting to 
further discuss the Bear Hill Tank access matter. Notice for the Commission's meeting was 
posted on February 24, 2011. An extensive discussion of the issue occurred during that public 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is properly 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. Public bodies also must "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The Open Meeting Law defines "public body," in part, "as a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "meeting" of a public 
body is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." Id. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction" (emphasis added). Id. Finally, 
"quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise 
provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
In its May 5, 2011 letter, the Commission states that notice was not posted for the 
December 7, 2010 event because "no meeting or deliberations took place in the context of the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Open Meeting Law." We agree. The Commission is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, and the matters discussed during the December 7, 2010 event were certainly within that 
body's jurisdiction. However, because only one Commissioner participated in the December 7, 
2010 event, there was no communication between or among of quorum of that public body, and 
therefore was no deliberation that would require posting notice of a meeting. Furthermore, for 
the same reason, there was no requirement that minutes be kept or made publicly available. 
Finally, we note that even if a quorum of the Commission had participated in the December 7, 
2011 event, the Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements do not require public bodies to 
provide notice of meetings to specific groups of individuals, such as abutters. We do not address 
whether any other law may have required such notice in this instance. 
Although this was not a meeting for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, we note that the 
Commission did take steps to inform the public that the event was occurring by posting notice in 
a local newspaper for several weeks prior to the event. In addition, the Commission discussed 
the issue extensively during a properly noticed public meeting in March 1, 2011. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in 
this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Martha Gjesteby 
Christopher D. Seebeck, Chairman, Cohasset Water Commission 
3 