===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 11,2015 
OML 2015-34 
Jerome E. Falbo, Esq. 
Falbo, Solari & Goldberg, PA 
80 Jefferson Street 
Winthrop, MA 02152 
Flavio Leo 
Deputy Director 
Aviation Planning and Strategy 
Massachusetts Port Authority 
One Harborside Drive 
East Boston, MA 02128 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Falbo and Mr. Leo: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Attorney Glen Berkowitz, 
dated December 29, 2014, alleging that the Logan Airport Community Advisory Committee, Inc. 
(the "Committee") is a public body pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 18, that has failed to follow the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was first filed 
with the Committee on October 10, 2014. The Committee responded by letter dated November 
3, 2014. Additionally, the Massachusetts Port Authority responded by letter dated October 22, 
2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the 
Committee, the responses by the Committee and the Massachusetts Port Authority, and the 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed emails and documents related to the 
Committee, provided to our office by Mr. Berkowitz. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee was formed in the late 1970's by 
community members united against the proposed construction of a new runway at Logan 
International Airport. The Committee grew to include 30 cities and towns throughout Eastern 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
Massachusetts. In 2003, the group incorporated under Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 
180 as "a non-profit, educational charitable purpose under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal 
Revenue Code." The Committee has been designated by the Federal Aviation Administration 
(the "FAA") as an independent and discrete participant in the FAA's Boston-Logan International 
Airport Overflight Noise Study. 
In 2013, the Legislature created the Massachusetts Port Authority Community Advisory 
Committee (the "MassPort Committee"). See Chapter 46 of the Acts of 2013. The MassPort 
Committee consists of voting members from communities surrounding Logan Airport and has 
specific responsibilities including appointing a member to the Board of Directors of the 
Massachusetts Port Authority, holding hearings, and making recommendations to the Authority, 
the governor, and the legislature. The MassPort Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. See id. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "public body" subject to the requirements of the law, in 
relevant part, as "a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether an entity is a public body, we consider three factors that 
apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; AND 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2010-1.1 Where an entity is not clearly placed within government by law, it may still 
be "within" government if the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the 
group, the government has control over the group, and the group primarily performs an 
essentially governmental function. IcL 
In evaluating the first factor, we find that the Committee is not "within" government, and 
therefore is not a public body. The Committee is organized as a non-profit corporation. The 
government has no role in appointing members or overseeing the Committee. The government 
did not play a role in creating or structuring the Committee, and the government does not control 
the Committee. Finally, the Committee does not primarily perform an essentially governmental 
function. While it makes recommendations to the Massachusetts Port Authority with respect to 
flight routes in and out of Logan Airport, it has no legal authority. That the Massachusetts Port 
Authority may treat the Committee differently than other groups does not make it part of 
government. Likewise, that the Committee has been designated by the FAA as an independent 
and discrete participant in the FAA's Boston-Logan International Airport Overflight Noise Study 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.inass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
does not make it part of government, but rather reflects the FAA's recognition that the 
Committee represents stakeholders in the flight route development process. 
Mr, Berkowitz provided our office documentation suggesting that the Massachusetts Port 
Authority has delegated the Committee the responsibility for assembling the MassPort 
Committee appointees in order to convene the MassPort Committee's first meeting. He suggests 
that this demonstrates that the Committee is performing a governmental function. However, it 
appears that the Committee's Chair is taking on the administrative task of assembling the 
MassPort Committee members who have been appointed by their representative communities. 
The Massachusetts Port Authority has not empowered the Committee with any actual 
governmental authority or advisory function. Thus, this fact does not change our conclusion that 
the Committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, thus it 
could not have violated the Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office 
at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Aoonalmn Sclarsic 
r Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Glen Berkowitz, Esq. 
Sandra Kuntz, Logan Airport Community Advisory Committee, Inc. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
J 