===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
May 21, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 70 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark Yankopoulos, Esq. 
Legal Counsel 
Board of Trustees of the Soldiers’ Home in Holyoke 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Yankopoulos: 
 
This office received a complaint on January 25, 2021, from Matt Rocheleau of the Boston 
Globe, alleging that the Board of Trustees of the Soldiers’ Home in Holyoke (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on December 24, 2020. You responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 
30, 2021.
1  
 
The complaint arises from three public records requests Mr. Rocheleau made to the 
Soldiers’ Home in Holyoke (the “Soldiers’ Home”) seeking, among other things, minutes of 
certain executive session meetings of the Board as well as documents used during those 
meetings. Our review herein is limited to whether the Board properly met in executive session 
during the meetings in question such that it may rely on General Laws chapter 30A, section 
22(f), to redact executive session minutes and redact or withhold certain documents.
2  
 
1 The Board responded to this complaint two and a half months after the deadline to do so had passed, and 
only after our office reached out on multiple occasions requesting a response. We remind the Board of its 
obligation to comply with all provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the obligation to review and 
respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days, and to send to the Attorney General a 
copy of such response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
2 The complaint contains several additional allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations 
of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review them. See OML 2019-85; OML Declination 
1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). In particular, the complaint raises 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
  
Following our investigation, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session to discuss the appointment of a new Superintendent of the Soldiers’ 
Home and interview candidates for the position. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint; the request for further review; materials provided by the 
Complainant; the open and executive session minutes and meeting packets for five meetings held 
between February 17 and March 18, 2016; and the minutes from open session meetings held on 
December 15 and 23, 2015. We also communicated with Counsel for the Board3 and the 
Complainant on several occasions.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a seven-member public body; therefore, four 
members constitute a quorum. On December 15, 2015, during an open session meeting of the 
Board, Paul Barabani, the Superintendent of the Soldiers’ Home at the time, announced his intent 
to retire. During the Board’s December 23, 2015, open session meeting, the Board acknowledged 
Mr. Barabani’s intent to retire and voted to create a hiring committee consisting of the entire 
Board to appoint a new Superintendent. 
 
Thereafter, the Board met in executive session five times in 2016—February 17, 
February 26, March 9, March 11, and March 18—to discuss the appointment of a new 
Superintendent and to interview candidates for the position. Either the entire Board or a quorum 
of the Board attended each of these five executive sessions. The Board has released the minutes 
of each executive session to the public, with the names of all candidates except the individual 
ultimately chosen as Superintendent redacted. Over the course of the five executive sessions, the 
Board discussed a resume screening tool, the timeline for the search process, and interview 
questions; it interviewed candidates
4; and it voted to forward to the Governor the Board 
members’ scoresheets of the candidates who were interviewed and to recommend to the 
Governor that only the top three candidates be considered for the Superintendent position. 
Thereafter, the Governor, through the Secretary of the Executive Office of Health and Human 
Services, selected and appointed Bennett Walsh to the position of Superintendent.   
  
In 2020, the Complainant submitted three public records requests to the Soldiers’ Home.
5 
Relevant here, the Complainant requested  
 
Any/all audio/video recordings, agendas, meeting packets, and meeting minutes, as 
well as any/all draft versions of agendas and meeting minutes, for each meeting of 
 
concerns regarding compliance with the Public Records Law, which the complainant acknowledges will 
be addressed separately by the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout.  
4 The minutes of the March 9 and 11 executive sessions state that the Board voted to enter executive 
session “for the purpose of interviewing candidates for the Superintendent position.” The executive 
sessions lasted two-and-a-half hours and three-and-a-half hours, respectively. However, the minutes only 
capture the Board’s votes to approve the prior executive session’s minutes; the minutes do not contain a 
summary of the candidate interviews which we presume consumed the majority of the lengthy executive 
sessions and which should have been captured in the minutes. 
5 The requests were dated November 3, November 10, and December 7. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
the Holyoke Soldiers’ Home Board of Trustees between Dec. 1, 2015 and July 31, 
2016, including but not limited to audio/video  recordings, agendas, meeting 
packets, and meeting minutes for regular monthly meetings, executive  session 
meetings, and special meetings.  
 
The Complainant also requested the Board’s candidate scoresheets as well as materials submitted 
by candidates, including resumes, cover letters, letters of recommendation, and references.  
 
The Soldiers’ Home responded to the public records requests, producing the minutes and 
meeting packets for the five executive sessions. The Board redacted from the February 26 
executive session minutes the names of all applicants the Board voted to interview, except for 
Bennett Walsh, who was ultimately appointed as Superintendent. The Board withheld cover 
letters and resumes submitted by the applicants, as well as the candidate scoresheets. In making 
these redactions and withholdings, the Board cited to section 22(f) of the Open Meeting Law as 
well as exemptions (a) and (c) to the Public Records Law. The Complainant appealed the 
responses to the Supervisor of Records.
6 In letters dated December 21, 2020, and January 5, 
2021, the Supervisor found that the appeals “related to documents received and used by the 
Board of Trustees” and therefore potentially implicated the Open Meeting Law. The Supervisor 
suggested that the parties seek a determination from our office regarding any issues implicating 
the Open Meeting Law, and the Complainant thereafter filed this Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. The Board Was Not a Preliminary Screening Committee and Should Not Have 
Convened in Executive Session Under Purpose 8. 
 
The complaint alleges that it was improper for the Board to meet in executive session to 
discuss and interview candidates for the Superintendent position because 1) the executive 
sessions at issue were held to review finalists for the position and not for the purpose of 
performing a preliminary screening; and 2) the Chair did not make the required statement that 
holding the discussions in open session would have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
applicants. The complaint also alleges that “[p]ackets pertaining to the candidates and hiring 
process were distributed” during the open session portion of the Board’s February 17 meeting 
and therefore may not be withheld.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated 
in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings 
of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
 
6 See SPR20/2419, SPR20/2512, SPR20/2528.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
637, 641 (2008). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which permits a 
preliminary screening committee “[t]o consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment . . . if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in 
obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, 
including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants 
who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). The Law defines 
“Preliminary Screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee 
or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of 
those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
A public body may create a preliminary screening committee, but such committee must 
consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of the parent body. See OML 2019-100; OML 
2013-155; OML 2012-90.7 However, it may contain additional members who are not members 
of the parent body. See OML 2013-155. The preliminary screening process may consist of 
several steps, such as consideration of written applications or resumes, selection of some for 
further consideration, and interviews for the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two 
or more finalists to be considered by the full body in open session. See Gerstein v. 
Superintendent Search Screening Committee, 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Commonwealth v. 
Board of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006). Once 
an applicant has passed a preliminary screening and been referred to the full body as a finalist, all 
further consideration of the applicant must occur in open session. See OML 2012-11. 
 
As a threshold matter, we find that the Board was not a preliminary screening committee 
and did not properly meet in executive session under Purpose 8 on any of the dates in question. 
Therefore, we need not determine whether the Board met in executive session to consider 
finalists; whether the Chair made the necessary announcements prior to entering executive 
session;8 or whether the documents distributed on February 17 constitute documents “used” in an 
open session meeting.  
 
A preliminary screening committee must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members 
of the parent body. See OML 2019-100; OML 2013-155; OML 2012-90. Because the Board as a 
whole convened meetings to review and interview candidates, it was not acting as a proper 
preliminary screening committee under Purpose 8 and should not have met in executive session. 
See OML 2012-103; OML 2012-90. Additionally, during the February 17 executive session, the 
Board discussed matters not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 8, including the 
resume screening tool, the timeline for the search process, and interview questions. See OML 
2019-7; OML 2019-48.  
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
8 Although we do not make a final determination as to whether the Chair made the required statement that 
holding discussions in open session would have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants, we 
note that the minutes do not reflect that the Chair made such a statement. We also note that we have 
warned the Board before regarding the requirement to make a similar statement when entering executive 
session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). See OML 2016-47. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
  
Citing the procedural steps reflected in the minutes of each executive session, the Board 
asserts that it properly met in executive session on each of the five occasions at issue here. The 
Board further asserts that it met in executive session for the purpose of performing a preliminary 
screening, and not for the purpose of selecting a finalist, and that it “did not function in the 
capacity of making a final selection in this process, but deferred to the Governor.”9 Regardless of 
whether the Board properly conducted the procedural steps required for entering into executive 
session, or made the final selection decision, a quorum of a public body may not meet in 
executive session under Purpose 8. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Law when it 
entered executive session without a proper statutory purpose on February 17, February 26, 
March 9, March 11, and March 18, 2016. 
   
II. The Board May Not Rely on G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), as a Basis for Redacting the 
Executive Session Minutes or Withholding the Executive Session Records. 
  
 Because we find that the Board did not properly meet in executive session on the dates in 
question, we next consider the extent to which the Board may withhold or redact records used in 
those meetings as well as the minutes of the executive sessions. The Open Meeting Law provides 
that minutes of an executive session meeting, as well as the materials used to prepare the 
minutes, “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . . . [for] as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). Similarly, all documents and exhibits used at the executive session may be withheld for 
as long as publication would defeat the lawful purpose of the executive session. Id. However, a 
public body may only rely on section 22(f) of the Open Meeting Law to withhold executive 
session minutes and records if “the executive session was held in compliance with section 21” of 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. Once the purpose for a lawful executive session has been served, “the 
minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records 
Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.” Id. 
 
The minutes of an open session meeting, on the other hand, are “public records in their 
entirety and not exempt from disclosure . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). The same is true for “the 
notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of [open session] minutes and all 
documents and exhibits used at [an open] session.” Id. However, there are two categories of open 
session records that the Law allows a public body to withhold as personnel information. Relevant 
here, a public body may withhold open session “materials used in deliberations about 
employment or appointment of individuals, including applications and supporting materials.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e)(2). This exception does not extend to resumes submitted by applicants; 
therefore, a public body may not withhold resumes under section 22(e)(2). 
 
9 To the extent the Board asserts that the Connelly exception applies here because the Governor made the 
final decision to appoint a new superintendent, we disagree. In Connelly v. School Committee of 
Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991), the Supreme Judicial Court ruled that where an individual public official 
creates an informal committee to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the sole authority to 
make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. This exception is not applicable here. Even 
if the Governor had sole authority to appoint the Superintendent and had asked the Board to provide an 
opinion on candidates, the Board met as the Board, not as part of an informal group created by the 
Governor.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
  
 
Because the Board convened in executive session on February 17, February 26, March 9, 
March 11, and March 18, 2016, without a valid statutory purpose, the Board may not rely on 
section 22(f) of the Open Meeting Law to redact or withhold those executive session minutes in 
any way. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f); OML 2021-24; OML 2019-164. We therefore order the Board 
to release the executive session minutes in their entirety. Likewise, the Board may not rely on 
section 22(f) as a basis for withholding the other requested records. Instead, the records must be 
considered in accordance with section 22(e)(2).10 Applying that standard, we find that the Open 
Meeting Law exempts from disclosure the materials used during the Board’s deliberations about 
appointment of the Superintendent, including the candidate scoresheets, cover letters, letters of 
recommendation, and references, but does not exempt from disclosure the resumes of applicants. 
 
III. The Board’s Executive Session Minutes Are Insufficiently Detailed.  
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we find that the minutes of the February 17, 
February 26, March 9, March 11, and March 18 executive sessions are insufficiently detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55. 
 
Here, the Board’s meeting minutes fall far short of the accuracy requirement in the Open 
Meeting Law. For example, the minutes of the March 9 and 11 executive sessions omit the 
candidate interviews in their entirety. Likewise, the February 17 executive session minutes state 
that “the Trustees discussed the Resume Screening Tool, proposed timeline for hiring a 
superintendent and interview questions,” but include no summary of those discussions. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body 
held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the 
 
10 The Complainant asserts that under the Open Meeting Law, General Laws chapter 30A, section 
22(e)(1), the Board must release the scoresheets it created for the purpose of reviewing candidates. 
Section 22(e)(1) allows public bodies to withhold “materials used in a performance evaluation of an 
individual bearing on his professional competence, provided they were not created by the members of the 
body for the purposes of the evaluation.” We find that section 22(e)(1) is inapplicable here, as the 
scoresheets were not “materials used in a performance evaluation,” regardless of who created them.  
Rather, the scoresheets were “materials used in deliberations about employment or appointment of 
individuals,” and therefore are “exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel information.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(e)(2).  
===PAGE 7===
7 
  
discussion that was held. See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. Finally, the minutes fail to include a 
list of the documents used at the meetings, as required. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). With the 
understanding that the minutes at issue are several years old, and that the Board is currently 
comprised entirely of different members than those who served in 2016, we order the Board to 
amend the minutes of executive sessions held on February 17, February 26, March 9, March 11, 
and March 18, 2016, to the best of its ability using any means available to it, including notes and 
records. See OML 2020-53 (noting that, although “time ha[d] passed since [the] meeting 
occurred, the Board should add the requisite level of detail to the minutes to the best of its 
ability”); OML 2015-62 (finding that a public body had taken appropriate remedial action where 
it reviewed 29 sets of minutes and amended those for which it was able to provide additional 
detail); OML 2020-69 (ordering a school committee to create and approve minutes for meetings 
of a subcommittee held over a three-year period). Although we order the Board to amend the 
executive session minutes to the best of its ability, we acknowledge the potential infeasibility of 
accurately capturing the substance of the discussions that occurred during those meetings, and 
we remind the Board that any amendments to the minutes must accurately capture what was 
actually discussed during the meetings. See OML 2020-101; OML 2020-62.  
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board was not a preliminary screening 
committee, and therefore violated the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session 
without a proper statutory purpose on February 17, February 26, March 9, March 11, and March 
18, 2016, to discuss the appointment of a new Superintendent and to interview candidates for the 
position. We also find that the Board’s meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future 
similar violations may result in a finding of an intentional violation, including the imposition of a 
monetary fine. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4). Additionally, we order the Board to amend, to the 
best of its ability, the executive session minutes for the meetings held on February 17, February 
26, March 9, March 11, and March 18, 2016, and to release those minutes to the public, without 
redactions. Within 30 days of receipt of this letter, the Board shall certify to our office that it has 
complied with this order by amending the executive session minutes and releasing them to the 
public. If the Board is unable to amend the executive session minutes, it must, within 30 days of 
receipt of this letter, explain to this office in writing what efforts it made to amend the minutes. 
Finally, because we note a number of instances where the Board has failed to comply with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law,
11 we order each Board member to attend an Open 
Meeting Law webinar presented by the Division, or other comprehensive Open Meeting Law 
training, and certify to our office that they have done so within 60 days of receipt of this letter.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
11 We acknowledge that the entire membership of the Board has changed since 2016; nonetheless, public 
body members are accountable for the Open Meeting Law violations of their predecessors. See OML 
2015-122; OML 2013-121; 940 CMR 29.04(1)(b). 
===PAGE 8===
8 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Matt Rocheleau (via e-mail: ) 
Rebecca Ostriker, The Boston Globe (via e-mail:  
 Gary Keefe, Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Soldiers’ Home in Holyoke  
(via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
T
his determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
