===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 25, 2015 
OML 2015-126 
Pamela Regis 
Acting Town Administrator 
Town of Webster 
350 Main Street 
Webster, MA 01570 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Regis: 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on April 22,1 alleging 
that the Webster Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about April 3, 
and then-Town Administrator John McAuliffe responded, on behalf of the Board, to both 
complaints by letter dated April 22. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the 
executive session topics listed in the notices for the Board's March 9 and March 23 
meetings lacked sufficient detail. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting notice and in the chair's verbal statement 
prior to entering executive session on March 9. Further, we find that a portion of the 
discussion that occurred in executive session should have been held in open session. 
Finally, we find no violation with respect to the notice for the Board's March 23 meeting. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Board's response to 
the complaints; and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes from the Board's meetings 
held on March 9 and March 23. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
SF/U 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board planned to convene in executive session 
during its March 9 and March 23 meetings. The notice for the Board's March 23 meeting 
included the following topic, "Executive Session- Sale or Lease of Real Property, 
Collective Bargaining with Union and Non-Union Personnel & Strategy with Respect to 
Litigation and Deployment of Security Personnel." Despite this notice, the Board 
ultimately did not convene in executive session on March 23. However, the Board did 
convene in executive session on March 9. The March 9 meeting notice described the 
executive session topic as follows: "Executive Session- To conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel and To discuss the deployment 
of security personnel or devises, or strategies with respect thereto." During the meeting, 
the Board voted by roll call to convene in executive session to "conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." The Board did not identify the 
specific union or nonunion employee in either its notice or announcement. 
Once in executive session, the Board discussed certain personnel matters within the 
Police Department, such as the number of officers who were off duty due to injury and 
new employees hired in the Department. The Board also discussed a draft collective 
bargaining agreement to be executed with the Department of Public Works Union and a 
draft severance agreement between the Town and the Town Administrator. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as 
much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. ofWavland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the 
school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 
21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
Because the Board did not meet in executive session on March 23, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the notice for that meeting. 
When a public body does not actually engage in deliberation on the noticed topic, the Open 
Meeting Law is not violated with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice. See 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2 OML 2015-63; OML 2014-81. However, the Board did convene in executive session on 
March 9. Although the Board did not specifically identify the statutory puipose for the 
executive session, either in the meeting notice or in the chair's verbal announcement before 
the executive session, the language used mirrors the text of executive session Purpose 2, 
"[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or 
to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). As the Board now understands, the meeting notice 
and announcement prior to convening in executive session also should have identified the 
specific nonunion personnel or collective bargaining unit to be discussed. See G.L. c. BOA, 
§ 21(b)(3); OML 2015-66; OML 2013-139. The Board's failure to state this information 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See id. The Board has committed to complying with this 
requirement going forward. 
Additionally, although not alleged, we find that the executive session discussion 
surrounding the police department was not proper under Purpose 2, or any of the 
enumerated executive session puiposes. Here, the Board did not negotiate (or discuss 
strategy with respect thereto) with nonunion personnel or a collective bargaining unit, but 
rather discussed updates concerning police department personnel. The Law does not 
provide an executive session puipose for general discussion of personnel matters. See 
OML 2014-15; OML 2014-42. Accordingly, we find that the Board should have discussed 
these matters in open session. 
As a result of these violations, the Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law 
as the basis for continuing to withhold any portion of its March 9 executive session 
minutes. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(1) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful puiposes of an 
executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law)-, OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Board may 
continue to withhold the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any 
applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f). However, because the Board's discussion about the police department 
should have been held in open session, the section of the minutes concerning this 
discussion, as well as any documents used by the Board during that discussion, must be 
released in their entirety. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail both in its meeting notice and in the chair's 
verbal statement prior to the March 9 executive session, and by improperly discussing a 
topic during the same executive session. We find that the Board did not violate the law 
with respect to its March 23 meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to release its March 9 
executive session minutes in accordance with the guidance above. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Webster Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 