===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 22 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark Carson  
Chair, New Marlborough Select Board 
mcarson@newmarlboroughma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Carson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Daniel Alden, former member of the New 
Marlborough Select Board (the “Board”), on July 27, 2022,
1 alleging that the Board, and 
specifically Board member Tara White, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 14. The Board responded via 
a letter from Board member Tara White dated July 11. The complaint alleges that the 
Complainant and Board member Tara White improperly deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and minutes for Board meetings held on June 
13 and July 11. We also communicated with Board member Tara White by phone.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of all meetings and, unless 
convened in executive session for a proper purpose, meetings must be open to the public. G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law 
defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members 
respond. See OML 2015-33.2 For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple 
majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. 
 
The Board is a three-member public body; therefore, two members constitute a quorum. 
During the Board’s June 13 meeting, Mr. Alden, who at the time was a member of the Board,
3 
informed the Board that he had written a letter to Congressman Richard Neal supporting the 
reopening of the Mill River Post Office. The post office had previously been located in the same 
building as the Mill River General Store, but the United States Postal Service closed the Mill 
River Post Office when ownership of the store changed hands.  
 
After the meeting Mr. Alden and Ms. White engaged in a brief discussion. Although Mr. 
Alden and Ms. White provide different accounts of how exactly this discussion unfolded, there is 
no dispute that the discussion occurred. In both accounts of events, Mr. Alden and Ms. White 
explain that they discussed the post office returning to the Mill River General Store and issues 
related to parking at the store.  
 
We find that the brief discussion between Mr. Alden and Ms. White did not constitute 
deliberation as it did not relate to matters within the Board’s jurisdiction. We have found that a 
topic falls outside the scope of a body’s jurisdiction where it does not involve the public body’s 
exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration. See OML 2018-1. Here, the 
discussion related to the location of a federal post office and the parking available at the Mill 
River General Store. We understand that the Board has no authority over, and plays no official 
role in determining, the location of a federal post office or the amount of parking available at the 
Mill River General Store. Therefore, we find that the topics discussed did not relate to the 
Board’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration.  
 
Although we do not find a violation here, we remind the Board that the Open Meeting 
Law’s definition of “deliberation” is very broad and includes nearly any communication about a 
matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. The Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“deliberation” is not limited to opinion or decision-making communications. See OML 2020-169 
(rejecting the argument that an email to a quorum of a public body was not deliberation because 
it merely contained facts); OML 2019-151. As such, we strongly advise caution when a quorum 
of the Board communicates outside of a properly noticed meeting. 
  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Mr. Alden resigned from the Board on June 14. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Daniel Alden (via e-mail ) 
Tara White, Member, New Marlborough Select Board (via e-mail: 
twhite@newmarlboroughma.gov) 
Mari Enoch, New Marlborough Town Administrator (via e-mail: 
NMBos@newmarlboroughma.gov)  
New Marlborough Town Clerk (via e-mail: kchretien@newmarlboroughma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
