===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 12,2015 
OML 2015-36 
Michael Brillhart 
County Administrator 
P.O. Box 427 
Barnstable, MA 02630 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Brillhart; 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Eric Bibler, dated December 
30, 2014, alleging that the Barnstable County Commissioners (the "Commissioners") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that 1) the 
minutes of the Commissioners' November 13, 2014 meeting are not accurate and fail to list the 
documents and exhibits used by the Commissioners during that meeting; 2) the notice for the 
Commissioners' November 13, 2014 meeting failed to include an anticipated topic for 
discussion; and 3) during the November 13, 2014 meeting, the Chair improperly allowed an 
individual to present a matter to the Commissioners and request a vote during time allotted for 
"Public Comment." The complaint was first filed with the Commissioners on November 24, 
2014. The Commissioners responded by letter dated December 3, 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Commissioners, 
the Commissioners' response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the notice for, and the minutes of, the Commissioners' November 13, 2014 meeting 
and we reviewed a video of that meeting.1 Finally, we interviewed Commissioner Mary Pat 
Flynn by telephone on January 8, 2015. 
FACTS 
The Commissioners are a three-member public body that oversees the Barnstable County 
government. The notice for the Commissioners' November 13, 2014 meeting listed several 
topics, including "Public Comment." The notice did not list a topic related to the Cape & 
Vineyard Electric Cooperative ("CVEC"). 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 The video is available at: http://new.livestream.com/bamstablecounty/commissioners/videos/70214582. 
===PAGE 2===
During the "Public Comment" portion of the meeting, the Commissioners opened the 
floor for members of the public to address the Commissioners. Liza Argo, the Special Projects 
Coordinator for CVEC, addressed the Commissioners and distributed a document entitled, 
"Changes to Distribution for Barnstable County as CVEC Offtaker." Ms. Argo requested that 
the Commissioners approve two contract amendments. Commission Chair Mary Pat Flynn 
received no notice, and had no prior knowledge, that Ms. Argo would be attending the 
Commissioners' meeting to ask the Commissioners for a vote to amend a contract. Following 
Ms. Argo's presentation, the Commissioners moved to approve the amendments. 
The minutes for the November 13, 2014 meeting describe Ms. Argo's request to the 
Commissioners and her distribution of the document, and they note two separate unanimous 
votes to approve each of the contract amendments. While the minutes identify the document Ms. 
Argo distributed to the Commissioners, the minutes do not include a separate list of the 
documents used by the Commissioners during the meeting. 
Mr. Bibler filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint with the Commissioners on 
November 24, 2014. In response to the complaint, the Commissioners posted notice for a 
December 3, 2014 meeting regarding the CVEC contract changes approved during the 
November 13, 2014 meeting. During the December 3, 2014 meeting, the Commissioners 
discussed the amendments and voted to ratify their November 13, 2014 approval. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Commissioners did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Not Including an 
Unanticipated Topic in the Notice for its November 13, 2014 Meeting. 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting. Id. A public body may discuss and take action on a topic that 
was not listed in a meeting notice if it was not reasonably anticipated by the chair at least 48 
hours before the meeting. See OML 2012-3.2 
Here, Chair Flynn received no notice, and had no prior knowledge, that Ms. Argo would 
be attending the Commissioners' November 13, 2014 meeting to ask the Commissioners for a 
vote to amend a contract. The discussion and vote that occurred during the meeting were not 
anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting. We therefore find that the Commissioners 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by holding this discussion without providing notice that it 
would occur. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).3 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 See also the Attorney General's Frequently Asked Questions, available at www.mass .gov/ago/oDenmeeting: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The Commissioners did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing and Approving 
Two Contract Amendments during "Public Comment." 
The complaint alleges that during the November 13, 2014 meeting, the Chair improperly 
allowed an individual to make a presentation and request a vote during time allotted for "Public 
Comment." This did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The Law states that, "[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair." G.L. c. 30A, 20(f). While 
a public body may include a "public comment" section on its agenda to allow members of the 
public to address the public body, this practice is not required and occurs at the discretion of the 
public body and its chair. OML 2012-23. Further, the Open Meeting Law does not prohibit a 
public body from discussing or taking action on unanticipated topics raised by a person 
addressing the public body. We therefore find that the Commissioners did not violate the law by 
discussing and approving the contract amendments during the meeting at issue. 
3. The Minutes of the Commissioners, November 13. 2014 Meeting are Substantially 
Accurate. 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A 
summary need not be a transcript of the discussion, however minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2013-14; OML 2012-29; 
OML 2011-55. 
Here, the minutes faithfully reflect Ms. Argo's presentation to the Commissioners. The 
minutes break out the vote taken by the Commissioners into two separate votes, even though the 
Commissioners conducted one vote to approve the two amendments. That the Commissioners 
chose to record the minutes in a manner that makes it clear to the reader that the Commissioners 
approved two separate contract amendments does not make the minutes inaccurate. The minutes 
make it clear that the Commissioners took action on the two contract amendments. Therefore, 
we find that the minutes substantially comply with the Law's accuracy requirement. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). 
Finally, we find that while the November 13, 2014 minutes did not include a separate list 
of the documents used by the Commissioners during the meeting, the documents presented by 
Ms. Argo were sufficiently noted in the minutes. While we find that the Commissioners did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect, we recommend that, in order to create the clearest 
possible record, minutes include a distinct list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
meeting, either at the end of the minutes or as a separate addendum, even if those documents are 
otherwise referenced in the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-196. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Eric Bibler 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 