===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 14, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 127 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C.  
101 Arch Street 
Boston MA 02110 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on March 24, 2021, alleging 
that the Somerset Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on February 21 and March 3 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 12.1 In his complaints, Mr. 
Higgins alleges that 1) the Board required members of the public to make a reservation in 
advance in order to attend the Board’s February 4 and March 3 meetings; and 2) the Board did 
not list on its meeting notices for the February 4 and March 3 meetings the specific dates of the 
meeting minutes the Board planned to consider for approval. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
a meeting notice which appeared to require members of the public to register in advance to 
attend the Board’s February 4 meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Law in the 
other ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response 
to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We also reviewed the 
meeting notices for the February 4 and March 3 meetings. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On February 2 at 3:30 p.m., the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held in-person at 4:30 p.m. on February 4. The meeting notice listed certain Covid-
19 safety protocols for attendees, including requiring all attendees to wear a face mask and 
maintain social distancing. The notice then stated: “if interested in attending meeting please call 
[phone number].”  
On February 26 at 2:00 p.m., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held in-person 
at 4:00 p.m. on March 3. The meeting notice again contained the face mask and social distancing 
requirements for attendees. This time, however, the notice stated, “Meetings of the Board... are 
open and accessible to all members of the public... Members of the public interested in attending 
may call [phone number] for additional information.” 
Both the notices for the February 4 and March 3 meetings list a topic, “Review and 
approve if ready minutes from prior meeting.”  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting a meeting notice which appeared 
to require members of the public to register in advance to attend the Board’s February 4 
meeting. 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public”). In order for a meeting to be 
truly open to the public, the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of 
the meeting, and the public body may not require members of the public to register or sign up to 
attend the meeting in advance. See OML 2021-10 (By requiring members of the public to 
register no later than one hour in advance of the meeting, and by informing the public that those 
who attempted to register after that time might not be allowed access to the meeting, the Board 
not only gave the impression that the meeting was not generally open to the public, but it 
effectively closed and locked the door to the meeting one hour prior to its start); OML 2018-51.2 
  The Board asserts that there was no requirement for a “reservation” to attend either the 
February 4 or March 3 meetings; the phone number was offered on each meeting notice “to 
allow individuals to obtain additional information.” However, we find that the language of the 
notice for the February 4 meeting, “if interested in attending meeting please call,” reasonably 
would be construed as giving the impression that the meeting was not generally open to the 
public, and would be closed to those who did not call in advance. The deterrent effect of the 
meeting notice’s registration language is the same whether or not reservations were actually 
required. See OML 2020-67 (finding an Open Meeting Law violation where public body’s 
meeting notice stated that the meeting was “invite only” and requiring that members of the 
public request an invitation no less than four hours before the meeting was to begin). Therefore, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by stating on the notice for the February 4 
meeting that members of the public should call a listed number if they were interested in 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
attending, creating the appearance that a reservation was required. Therefore, we find that the 
Board’s February 4 meeting was not open and accessible to the public, in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  
Unlike the February 4 notice, the March 3 notice did not create an impression that 
registration was required. The notice explicitly stated that the meeting was open to all members 
of the public and that members of the public could call the listed number “for additional 
information.” This notice, therefore, did not indicate or imply that a reservation was required to 
attend. Thus, we find that the March 3 meeting was open and accessible to the public.  
2. The notices for the Board’s February 4 and March 12 meetings sufficiently identified the 
meeting minutes the Board would consider for approval. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
regulations define “timely manner” as “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
CMR 29.11 (2). 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board did not list on its notices for the February 4 and March 
3 meetings the specific dates of meeting minutes the Board planned to consider for approval. The 
Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior 
to such meeting,” which includes “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1) (b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 
2021-57; OML 2015-35.  
Here, the notices for the February 4 and March 3 meetings listed “Review and approve if 
ready minutes from prior meeting” as a topic the Board planned to discuss. We find that this item 
provided sufficient information to the public because it identified the specific minutes the Board 
anticipated approving during the meeting, that is, the minutes from its last meeting. See OML 
2021-57. As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
implying on the notice for the February 4 meeting that members of the public were required to 
call in advance in order to attend the meeting, but did not violate the Law in the other ways 
alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Nick Papazyan, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
 Somerset Board of Assessors c/o Principal Assessor Pamela Lee (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
