===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 29, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 123 
 
 
Jeffrey S. Dykens 
Chair, Select Board 
549 Main Street 
Chatham, MA 02633 
 
By email only: JDykens@chatham-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Dykens: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated April 11, 2022, alleging that 
the Chatham Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 25, and former Chair Peter 
Cocolis responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 6.  The complaint alleges that i) 
the executive session topic listed on the notice for the Board’s March 8 meeting lacked sufficient 
specificity and ii) the Board failed to periodically review executive session minutes to determine 
whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific meeting notice and by failing to periodically review executive session 
minutes.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the 
notices and open session minutes of the Board’s March 8 and April 12 meetings.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 4 at 4:22 P.M., the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on Tuesday, March 8 at 5:30 P.M.  The notice listed four topics, including an 
Executive Session pursuant to Purpose 6 and Purpose 3 “to consider the purchase, exchange, 
taking, lease, or value of real property and to discuss pending litigation.” On March 7, Town 
Manager Jill Goldsmith recognized that the specific property and litigation matter to be 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
discussion in the executive session had not been identified in the notice.  She updated the 
“agenda packet” sent to Board members with this information.  However, the notice posted to the 
official posting location, the Town website, was not corrected.  
 
The March 8 meeting was held as planned.  After discussing the noticed open session 
topics, Board Member Dean Nicastro motioned to convene in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 6 “to consider the purchase, exchange, taking, lease, or value of real property” and 
verbally identified the property to be discussed as “251 Crowell Road” and to further convene in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3 “to discuss pending litigation” which involved the 
“Opioid Litigation Settlement.”  The Board then entered executive session and discussed these 
two matters.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Executive Session Topics Listed on the March 8 Meeting Notice Lacked 
Sufficient Specificity. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id. 
The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the 
reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
Among the ten enumerated purposes, a public body may convene in executive session to 
“discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  When convening in executive session pursuant 
to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation matter it will discuss, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-
12.2  
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: www.mass.gov/the-open-
meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Another permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is “to 
consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  When noticing an executive session pursuant to Purpose 6, a 
public body must identify the property to be discussed if doing so would not compromise the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See OML 2013-97; OML 2012-52; OML 
2010-2.  A specific address is always preferable; however, the public body may also list 
bordering streets, intersections, landmarks, or other identifying information.  See OML 2010-2.   
 
The complaint alleges that the notice was insufficiently specific because it failed to 
identify the exact property discussed pursuant to Purpose 6 and the specific litigation matter 
considered under Purpose 3. The Board admits, and we agree, that this information should have 
been included on the notice.  However, we note that, prior to convening in the executive session 
on March 8, the Board identified both the specific property and litigation matter to be discussed 
in open session, and further note that the open session minutes of this meeting identify the 
litigation matter and property discussed.  As such, we find no indication that the Board intended 
to withhold information from the public.  Nevertheless, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law as the meeting notice should have included the specific property and litigation 
matter that was to be discussed in executive session.  See OML 2018-70. 
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Review Executive Session 
Minutes for Public Release. 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive 
sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, 
and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its review.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(g)(1).  Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2019-44; OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.  
 
The complaint alleges that, generally, the Board “does not review executive session 
minutes for public release on a regular basis.”  We agree and find that the Board failed to review 
executive session minutes at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure was 
warranted.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g).  However, we note that, in response to the complaint, the 
Board reviewed and released numerous sets of executive session minutes during meetings held 
on April 12, April 14, and April 26.  As such, we order no additional relief.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting by failing 
to include sufficient specificity in its meeting notice prior to entering executive session and by 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
failing to periodically review executive session minutes.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Caitlyn Galvin, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Ronald Beaty – By email only:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
