===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 9, 2018 
OML 2018-4 
Rachel Tanenhaus, Chair 
Medford Disabilities Commission 
City Hall-Room 214 
85 George P. Hassett Drive 
Medford, MA 02155 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Tanenhaus; 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Viglione on October 26, alleging that the 
Medford Disabilities Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
September 29, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Commission, by letter 
dated October 26.2 In his complaint, Mr. Viglione alleges that the Commission refused to 
permit him to record its September 27 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the Commission's September 27 meeting minutes. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission held a regularly-scheduled meeting on 
September 27. Approximately one hour before the meeting was scheduled to begin, the 
complainant informed Diversity and Inclusion Director Neil Osborne that he planned to 
record the Commission's meeting that evening via Facebook Live. The meeting began at 5:30 
PM. The complainant arrived at approximately 6:00 PM at which time he began to record the 
meeting. The Commission chair inquired whether the complainant was recording the 
meeting, which the complainant confirmed. The chair then asked the complainant to refrain 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We granted the Commission an extension of time to respond until October 26. 
===PAGE 2===
from continuing to record until after the Commission had an opportunity to discuss it. The 
complainant then left the meeting and did not return. 
Commissioners proceeded to express various concerns they had about live-streaming 
the meeting, but also acknowledged that the Open Meeting Law permitted a person to record 
a meeting. Although the meeting minutes do not reflect it, the Commission contends that it 
had decided that if and when the complainant returned to the meeting, it would allow him to 
record the meeting. The Commission also voted to seek an opinion from the city solicitor 
about whether the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to permit live-streaming of its 
meeting and whether a person's disability can compel an accommodation to the Open 
Meeting Law in this regard. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, 
or may transmit the meeting through any medium." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(f). Therefore, any 
individual may record or transmit an open session meeting of a public body. See OML 2012-
24.3 
The complainant alleges that the Commission prevented him from recording its 
September 27 meeting. The Commission contends that it had asked the complainant to 
temporarily refrain—rather than prohibit him—from recording while it discussed various 
concerns expressed by commissioners and a member of the public. The Open Meeting Law 
permits anyone to record or transmit a meeting, provided that the chair is first notified of the 
intention to do so. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2014-8. While the complainant failed to 
affirmatively notify the chair before he began recording, the chair was able to plainly observe 
the complainant's recording device and inquired about it promptly. 
It appears that the Commission was not concerned with the complainant recording 
altogether, but rather it was concerned with the fact that the meeting would be transmitted live 
on the internet. The law does not place any restrictions on the type of permissible medium for 
recording or under what circumstances a recording can be broadcast. The law's only 
restriction allows the chair to impose reasonable restrictions on the "number, placement, and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting." See G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 20(f); OML 2015-199. Because the law unequivocally states that "any person may 
make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or may 
transmit the meeting through any medium," it is improper for a public body to discourage or 
prohibit an individual who wishes to record and/or transmit a meeting from doing so. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2013-81. We therefore find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by asking the complainant to refrain, albeit temporarily, from recording and 
transmitting the meeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
ww w. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discouraging an individual from recording and transmitting an open meeting. We 
order the Commission's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Joseph Viglione 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 