===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 3, 2013 
OML 2013-130 
Marilyn Wilson, Chair 
Rowe Board of Selectmen 
321 Zoar Road 
P.O. Box 462 
Rowe, MA 01367 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Wilson: 
This office received three complaints from Lisa Danek Burke on November 5, 2012, 
alleging that the Rowe Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints allege that the Board deliberated over email outside of an 
open meeting. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about September 27, 
2012; October 9, 2012; and October 31, 2012. The Board does not appear to have formally 
responded to the complaints, though Chair Noel Abbott provided his own response to the first 
two complaints in an email sent to our office on October 10, 2012, and to all three by formal 
letter dated December 4, 2012.' 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination we reviewed the September 27, 2012, October 9, 2012 and 
October 31, 2012 complaints filed with the Board; Chair Abbott's October 10, 2012 and 
December 4, 2012 responses; and the three November 5, 2012 complaints filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed a series of emails sent between Chair Abbott and Rowe Schools 
Superintendent Michael Buoniconti; a September 14, 2012 email sent by Chair Abbott to a 
number of recipients; and an October 10, 2012 email sent by Chair Abbott to a number of 
recipients. 
1 We remind the Board of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Complaint within 14 business days of 
receipt. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). A public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action 
taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
On August 4, 2012 a lightning strike ignited a fire which destroyed the Rowe Elementary 
School. On September 4, 2012, Rowe Schools Superintendent Michael Buoniconti sent an email 
to Board Chair Noel Abbott and one other individual regarding safety concerns with respect to 
furniture and equipment that may have been contaminated in the fire. Chair Abbott responded to 
Superintendent Buoniconti, and copied a number of individuals on the email, including the two 
other members of the Board (the Board is a three member public body). In the email. Chair 
Abbott asks the Superintendent to "provide an immediate response to your comment below so 
that we can quickly determine next steps." Chair Abbott then poses a number of questions to the 
Superintendent regarding the furniture. The other Board members did not respond to the email. 
On September 14, 2012, Chair Abbott sent an email to a number of individuals, including 
the two other members of the Board, with the subject, "Clarification from last night's joint 
Hawlemont-Rowe School Committee meeting." The email includes the following: 
The attached document contains the thoughts 1 presented at last night[,s] joint 
Hawlemont and Rowe School Committee meeting. My apologies for leaving at 5:30 PM 
but I was leading a session at 6 PM in another location. 
What's attached: 
1) "Clarifications Smart Boards" document with thoughts I shared last night. 
2) Ed May's credentials (36 pages) 
3) Final Smart Boards and 1 chair testing results from ATI at Rowe Fire Department. 
They are the same firm that tested at Hawlemont 
The attached two-page "Clarifications Smart Boards" document consisted of Chair 
Abbott's assessment regarding the Smart Board and chairs that were cleaned following the fire, 
and his conclusion that there was almost no possibility of contamination from the fire. 
According to Chair Abbott, the document contained his prepared remarks that he had read the 
night before at a joint meeting of the Hawlemont and Rowe School Committees. The other two 
members of the Board were present at that meeting. Chair Abbott told the Committee that he 
would email his remarks to those who were present at the meeting. 
On October 10, 2012, Chair Abbott sent an email to a number of individuals, including 
the two other Board members. The subject of the email was "Billing Concern," and was 
addressed to Bill Knittle, the Principal of the Mohwak School District. In the email. Chair 
Abbott writes: 
I am reviewing Warrants to be signed by both the Rowe Selectmen and the Rowe School 
Committee. 
The Rowe School Warrant #8 dated 10/11/12 for $8,670.24 was billed and shipped to 
"Hawlemont Regional School District," not the Rowe School District 
This is the only invoice that is billed this way. The rest were correctly billed to the Rowe 
School. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This may be no issue, but my concern is the future possibility that these items may be 
considered as belonging to the Hawlemont School District rather [than] Rowe's property. 
In the future please ensure that all items you order are billed to the Rowe School. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently. 
To that end, the law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [material] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. All deliberations must 
occur during a properly posted meeting. Id.; G.L. c. 30A, § 20. While it is clear that certain 
administrative tasks are excluded from the definition of "deliberation," that exception includes a 
strong caveat: such administrative communications are permissible "provided that no opinion of 
a member is expressed." See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-4; OML 2013-5.2 
On September 4, 2012, Chair Abbott, acting as Chair of the Board, responded to 
information provided to him by the Superintendent, and copied the other members of the Board 
to keep them informed. His communication was directed to the Superintendent, and not the 
Board members. His questions to the Superintendent were meant to collect factual information, 
and not to convey an opinion to the Board. No Board members responded to his email. We 
find that this type of communication is administrative in nature and not deliberation. For the 
same reason. Chair Abbott's October 10, 2012 email regarding a billing error was not 
deliberation. 
Chair Abbott's September 14, 2012 email also was not deliberation. The attached 
document, though sent to a quorum of the Board and expressing Chair Abbott's opinion, 
consisted of the prepared remarks that Chair Abbott had already expressed during an open 
meeting. Chair Abbott was not communicating any new opinions, but rather distributing written 
remarks that he had already presented during an open meeting at which the other Board members 
were attendance. Therefore, we find this email also was not deliberation. See OML 2013-4; 
OML 2013-5. 
While these types of administrative communications are permissible, we note that any 
follow up communication between and among the Board members would be deliberation and 
would need to occur during a meeting. Furthermore, while we find this was not the case here, 
we caution the Board that questions directed to a third party have the potential to convey the 
opinion of the public body member sending the email. We therefore recommend that public 
body members avoid copying a quorum of the body's members on email communications with 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 In OML 2013-29, we found that an email sent by a public body member to a third party and copied to the rest of 
the public body was deliberation. While parts of this email included requests for information, the email also 
expressed opinions and speculation about public business within that public body's jurisdiction. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
third parties, and instead wait to update the public body on those communications during a 
meeting. 
Determining which tasks are merely "administrative" can be challenging, and email 
communications between a quorum of public body members—however innocent—creates at 
least the appearance of a potential Open Meeting Law violation. Therefore, our best advice 
continues to be that public bodies refrain from email communication between a quorum of their 
members except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing 
documents created by non-members to be discussed at meetings, which are administrative tasks 
specifically sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that closing this complaint does 
not resolve any other complaints that are currently pending with our office, the Board, or the 
Town. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Lisa Danek Burke 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 