===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 14, 2015 
OML 2015-186 
David Kowalski, Chair 
Holland Board of Health 
27 Sturbridge Road 
Holland, MA 01521 
RE: Opeh Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Kowalski: 
This office received five complaints from Dana Manning alleging that the Holland Board 
of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 18-25.1 One of the 
complaints was filed with the Board on April 18, and four were filed on April 19. The Board did 
not formally respond to these complaints. Instead, former Board Chair Kenneth Ference 
forwarded copies of the complaints to our office on June 1} Of these five complaints, only one 
alleges a violation of the Open Meeting Law.3 In the one complaint that we do review, Ms. 
Manning, a Board member, alleges that David Kowalski, another Board member, violated the 
Open Meeting Law by making statements concerning Board business to the other two members 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 In his June 1 request for review, Mr. Ference states that the Board attempted to review the complaints on two 
occasions, but failed to obtain a quorum. Mr, Ference states that the Board drafted a response during its May 1 
meeting but the response disappeared from the Board office. Our office will typically decline to review complaints 
where the original complainant—in this case, Ms. Manning—fails to request further review by our office. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b). Here, the Board, a three-member body, experienced difficulties when attempting to respond to the 
complaints. One member of the body was the complainant, and another member refused to participate in meetings 
to review and respond to the complaints, making it impossible to obtain a quorum. Given the unique facts present 
here, we exercise our discretion to review these complaints, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). We note that Ms. 
Manning subsequently affirmed that it was also her desire that her complaints be reviewed by our office. 
3 One complaint alleges that Mr. Kowalski approved a food permit without consulting the other two Board members, 
in violation of G.L. c. 94, § 48A. Another complaint sets out a litany of instances where Mr. Kowalski allegedly 
advocated for special treatment from the Board for his friends. Two complaints contain allegations that Mr. 
Kowalski conducted Board business on a personal computer. These allegations, if proven, would not constitute 
violations of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. As such, we decline to review them. See OML 2014-35. Open Meeting Law 
determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
outside of a noticed meeting.4 
===PAGE 2===
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that, on one occasion, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the request for review filed with our 
office. We also reviewed an e-mail sent to our office by Mr. Ference, dated August 4. Finally, 
we reviewed Mr. Kowalski's personal response, which was filed with our office on October 19. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. At the relevant 
time, the Board consisted of Mr. Ference, Ms. Manning, and Mr. Kowalski. On April 14, the 
Town of Holland held its Town Caucus. All three Board members were present. At the 
conclusion of the Caucus, Mr. Ference and Ms. Manning, who had been sitting separately, were 
standing near each other in the line to exit. Mr. Kowalski approached them and stated that it was 
important a particular constituent receive a septic tank installation license because a home sale 
depended on obtaining this license. Mr. Ference stated that he would handle the matter. The 
three Board members then parted ways. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. BOA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. Expression of an opinion on matters within the body's 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds. See OML 2012-15; OML 2012-8; OML 2011-37. Discussion regarding whether the 
body should consider or take action on specific topics is a matter within the body's jurisdiction. 
See OML 2012-67. 
Here, Mr. Kowalski's statement that the Board should take action on a particular license 
application, as well as Mr. Ference's response, clearly constituted business within the Board's 
jurisdiction. As such, this discussion between a quorum of the Board members should only have 
occurred at a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The private discussion at 
the Town Caucus therefore violated the Open Meeting Law. See id. 
As a final matter, we note that the Board did not respond to the present complaint in the 
manner required by law. When an individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a 
public body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public 
body," and "the public body shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). 
The chair is required to disseminate copies and the public body must meet to review the 
complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90. The 
body must then respond to the complaint within 14 business days of receipt. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Here, the Board did not formally respond to the complaints filed on 
April 18 and 19. Rather, Mr. Ference filed the complaints with our office on June 1, and Mr. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Kowalski filed his personal responses with our office on October 19. It does not appear that the 
Board reviewed the complaints as a group. This failure to follow proper procedures in 
responding the Open Meeting Law complaints at issue also violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order 
the Board to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #1: Open 
Meeting Law Definitions and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Dana Manning 
Holland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 We recognize that a quorum of the Board's membership has changed since the events at issue occurred. 
Nevertheless, in the interest of ensuring future compliance with the law, we believe this review is necessary. The 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training videos may be found here: 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/govemment-resources/open-meeting-law/video-trainings/ 
attached form, that it has done so.5 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2015-186 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #1: Open Meeting Law Definitions on . 
(date) 
Public Body Member Signature Date 
4 