===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 118 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq.  
KP Law 
gcorbo@k-plaw.com   
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Belbin on May 1, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Carver Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 12, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated May 1. The complaint alleges that during an April 2 meeting the 
Board created two subcommittees and that “[t]here was no mention of setting agendas, having a 
public meeting or creating minutes.”  
 
Following our review, we find that the two “teams” the Board created on April 2 were 
not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and 
video recordings of the Board’s meetings held on April 2 and 9.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, 
three members constitute a quorum. At the time of the April 2 meeting, the Town of Carver was 
in the process of searching for a new town administrator. During the Board’s April 2 meeting, 
the Board explained that it was considering three finalists for the position of town administrator, 
each of whom currently worked for another municipality—specifically, Rochester, Dunstable, 
 
1 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the April 2 meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mkaZde23OdI . A 
video recording of the April 9 meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qhYMu3ogD4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and Braintree. The Board discussed that it would be helpful to speak with officials from the other 
municipalities to further assess the finalists before making a decision.   
 
Mark Townsend, who at the time was chair of the Board, suggested forming teams of 
Board members to speak with officials in the three municipalities. After significant discussion of 
which members would team up together and which team would meet with which municipality, 
the Board ultimately agreed that Chair Townsend and Board member Sarah Hewins would meet 
with officials in Rochester, and members John Cotter and Dan Ryan would meet with officials in 
Dunstable and Braintree. Chair Townsend asked that the meetings be completed by that Friday 
so that the Board could be prepared to potentially make a decision regarding the three finalists at 
its next meeting.  
 
During the Board’s April 9 meeting the members again discussed the three finalists for 
the town administrator position. Board members reported back to the full Board regarding their 
meetings with various town officials from Rochester, Dunstable, and Braintree. Thereafter, the 
Board engaged in a lengthy and substantive discussion regarding the finalists’ qualifications and 
fitness for the position of town administrator, with each Board member sharing their thoughts 
and opinions. Ultimately, the Board voted to engage in contract negotiations with Glenn Cannon 
for the position of town administrator. 
 
It is our understanding that the teams are no longer in existence, having completed the 
work of interviewing individuals in the three municipalities and sharing the information learned 
with the full Board. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the complaint does not allege that the Board or the 
teams actually violated the Open Meeting Law, but rather asserts that the Board created 
subcommittees during its April 2 meeting and that “[t]here was no mention of setting agendas, 
having a public meeting or creating minutes.” The complaint also asserts that the Complainant 
“noti[f]ied the Chair of the Select Board about this issue of creating sub committees[,] . . . 
contacted the other Select Board members[,] . . . attempted to resolve this prior to filing this 
complaint[, and] . . .  tried to stop the actions.” Although we could decline to review the 
complaint because it does not allege any actual violations of the Open Meeting Law, because we 
understand the Complainant’s concern to be that the teams were subcommittees and that they 
failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law, we take this opportunity to provide guidance to the 
Board and the Complainant on the issue of whether the teams were public bodies subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that public 
bodies, among other things, post notice for all meetings; hold meetings open to the public, unless 
a lawful executive session has been convened; and create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, both open and executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-22. The Open Meeting Law 
applies only to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee . . . however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
subcommittee includes a “multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to 
a public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Whether a public body created a subcommittee is a fact-
intensive inquiry.  
 
To determine whether a multiple-me mber entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 1) the entity must be “within” government and 
not excluded from the definition of “public body”; 2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to 
act collectively; and 3) the entity must serve a “public purpose.” See OML 2017-120; OML 
2010-1.3 We find that the teams meet the first and third prongs of the public body analysis but 
fail the second prong. The teams were within government because they were created by the 
Board. See OML 2018-23; OML 2023-32 (“Although it may be the case that the Board did not 
literally intend to create a subcommittee, . . . the Board’s actions . . . clearly created a 
subcommittee.”). Additionally, the teams served a public purpose where they were charged with 
gathering information to assist the Board in further assessing the three finalists for the town 
administrator position.   
 
 However, the teams fail the second prong of the public body analysis where they were 
not em
powered to act collectively. One of the hallmark characteristics of a public body is 
empowerment to take collective action. See OML 2021-150; OML 2010-1; OML 2018-136, n. 5. 
In contrast, we have explained that a group that serves primarily an administrative function, such 
as by compiling and conveying information, but is not empowered with specific decision-making 
or policy authority and does not make formal recommendations to a public body, is not a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-56; OML 2014-46. Here, the teams were 
not empowered with any decision-making or policy advisory authority and did not make formal 
recommendations to the Board. Rather, the teams gathered information and then shared that 
information with the full Board at its next open session meeting. Because the teams fail the 
second prong of the public body analysis, we find that they were not public bodies subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the teams the Board created during its April 2 
meeting were not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or our office. Please feel free to contact 
our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
       
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Carver Select Board (via email: mark.townsend@carverma.gov) 
Cara Dahill, Carver Town Clerk (via email: cara.dahill@carverma.gov)  
 Robert Belbin (via email: ) 
  
 
