===PAGE 1===
THE  COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE  OF THE  ATTORNEY  GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago  
March 5, 2013 
OML 2013 — 23 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Paul Johnson, dated March 2, 2012, alleging 
that the Carver Board of Selectman (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 2, 2011, and 
the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated January 6, 2012, following two 
extensions granted by our office. In his complaint, Mr. Johnson alleges that at its November 22, 
2011 meeting, "the [Board] voted to adjourn the open session and enter into executive session for 
the purposes of [a] litigation update," despite the fact that there was "no pending or threatened 
litigation regarding the VonBurg vacation overpayment," a matter before the Board. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the December 2, 2011 complaint; the Board's 
January 6, 2012 response; and Mr. Johnson's March 2, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We 
also reviewed the notice and the open and executive session minutes of the Board's November 
22, 2011 meeting and the open session minutes of the Board's December 27, 2011 meeting. 
Additionally, we reviewed the Massachusetts Inspector General's October 29, 2009 report 
regarding a vacation overpayment matter considered by the Board. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
entering into executive session during its November 22, 2011 meeting. 
FACTS 
Because the minutes of the Board's November 22, 2011 executive session remain 
confidential, we are unable to provide a full recitation of the facts. The publicly available facts 
are as follows. 
During fiscal year 2009, Paul VonBurg, Director of the Carver Council on Aging, 
miscalculated his vacation hours and was improperly paid by the Town of Carver for leave to 
0 
===PAGE 2===
which he was not entitled. Mr. VonBurg retired in July 2009. On October 29, 2009, the 
Massachusetts Inspector General issued a public report, stating that, "[T]he former Director owes 
the Town approximately $17,170.96 in vacation time that he used in 2009 that he was not 
entitled to. This office recommends that the Town of Carver take the necessary and appropriate 
steps to recover this amount of money from the former Director as soon as possible." 
According to the Board's January 6, 2012 response to the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
"[T]he Board of Selectmen, through Town Counsel, had begun attempting to negotiate a 
resolution of the matter with Mr. VonBurg in lieu of initiating litigation. Unfortunately, before 
such negotiations could be finalized, Mr. VonBurg passed away." 
The Board then met in open session on November 22, 2011. The posted notice for the 
November 22, 2011 meeting included the following topic and sub-topic: "Executive Session: . . . 
2. Litigation Update." The minutes of the open session reflect the following: 
Executive Session: LaFond stated there is a Mitigation [u]pdate is [sic] sufficient to 
cover all aspects. Franey asked if that is the only thing we are doing. Motion by Hewins 
for the purposes of discussing litigation and not return to [o]pen [s]ession, second by 
Franey. 
The Board discussed the present Open Meeting Law complaint in open session on 
December 27, 2011. After consulting Town Counsel, the Board voted to replace the original 
language in the November 22, 2011 meeting minutes, describing the Board's motion to enter 
executive session, with the following language: 
Motion to go into [e]xecutive [s]ession pursuant to MGL Chapter 30A, section 21 for the 
following three reasons: 1. To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health rather than the professional competence of certain individuals with respect 
to the issue of vacation time overpayment to former COS Director Paul VonBurg; 2. To 
comply with MGL Chapter 214, section 1B, insofar as discussing the matter in [o]pen 
[s]ession would result in unwarranted invasion of privacy; and 3. To discuss potential 
litigation relating to the matter because discussing the matter in [o]pen [s]ession may 
have a detrimental impact on the Town's litigating position. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in, an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. Id. One 
purpose for executive session is Purpose 3, "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." Id. at § 21(a)(3). The mere 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session Purpose 3. Litigation must 
be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See 
Perryman v. School Committee of Boston,  17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); see also Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Guide, February 10, 2012 at page 8. 
Here, the Board listed in its notice for its November 22, 2011 meeting an executive 
session regarding "Litigation Update." During the actual meeting, according to the minutes, the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board entered executive session "for the purposes of discussing litigation." This appears to be a 
reference to executive session Purpose 3, "to discuss strategy with respect to . . . litigation." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
Mr. Johnson asserts that Purpose 3 was not appropriate for the discussion that took place 
during the November 22, 2011 executive session because he "knows of no pending or threatened 
litigation regarding the VonBurg vacation overpayment." In its revised minutes, issued at the 
December 27, 2011 open session meeting, the Board cites "potential litigation" as the basis for 
its motion to enter executive session on that date. The executive session minutes show that 
although litigation was not pending or imminently threatened, legal action was "demonstrably 
likely," because the Board considered legal action it might take to recover money from Mr. 
VonBurg's estate, making the executive session discussion appropriate under Purpose 3. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); see also OML 2011-30.1  Thus, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by entering executive session at the November 22, 2011 meeting. 
The Board also appropriately employed Executive Session Purpose 7 in its revised 
motion to enter executive session. Purpose 7 allows a public body "No comply with, or act 
under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirement." G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(7). If a public body enters executive session under Purpose 7, it must cite the 
specific general or special law, or federal grant-in-aid requirement, that requires confidentiality 
or requires the public body to meet behind closed doors. See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch.  
Comm. of Wayland,  455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to 
enter executive session requires the enumeration of enabling law). In this case, the Board cited 
the Right of Privacy, G.L. c. 214, § 1B, in order to discuss elements of the vacation overpayment 
issue that it believed would result in an unwarranted invasion of privacy if discussed in open 
session. 
As a final matter, although not raised in the initial complaint, we note that the notice for 
the Board's November 22, 2011 meeting was not sufficiently specific to advise the public of the 
topics the Board planned to discuss in executive session. The Open Meeting Law states that all 
meeting notices "shall contain . . . a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Furthermore, the Attorney General's Open 
Meeting Law regulations require that a meeting notice list those topics with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
CMR 29.03. In general, this level of detail applies equally to open session and executive session 
topics listed on a meeting notice. The Board's meeting notice lists only "Litigation Update." 
The meeting notice should have specifically stated the Board's intent to discuss the issue of Mr. 
VonBurg's vacation time overpayment, since doing so would not have compromised the 
purposes of the executive session.2  
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2  In addition to posting proper notice of executive session topics, the Open Meeting Law requires that "before the 
executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). For this 
reason, the Board's statement of purpose for entering executive session during the November 22, 2011 meeting was 
also insufficient; the Board failed to cite one of the Open Meeting Law's ten enumerated purposes and failed to 
identify the vacation overpayment matter as the subject of the executive session. See id. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
1 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
After the complaint at issue was filed, our office issued a determination letter resolving 
an unrelated Open Meeting Law complaint against the Board. See OML 2011-56. In response 
to the guidance offered in that letter, the Board took action to attempt to remedy certain 
procedural deficiencies related to Mr. Johnson's present complaint. In its January 6, 2012 
response to the present Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board states, "Now that the Board has 
a better understanding of . . . notice requirements of the new Open Meeting Law, the Board took 
action during its meeting on December 27, 2011 to address potential deficiencies in its original 
vote. Specifically, at a properly posted open meeting, the Board voted to revise the record to 
make clear . . . the purposes for entering executive session on November 22, 2011." While we 
applaud the Board's efforts to take corrective action in response to the complaint, we note that 
the Board's amendment of its meeting minutes was not sufficient to remedy the deficiencies in 
the meeting notice and the statement made at the time the Board entered executive session. The 
requirement that a public body state the purpose for its executive sessions in as much detail as 
possible in the meeting notice and prior to entering executive session is intended to give the 
public notice of what the body plans to discuss behind closed doors. See OML 2012-68. 
Amending the meeting notices and open session minutes after the fact does not achieve the goals 
of the law. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by entering executive session at the November 22, 2011 meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
cc: 	 Paul Johnson 
cc: 	 Carver Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 