===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       March 5, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 24 
 
 
Swansea School Committee 
 c/o Chair, Alanna Solitro 
One Gardners Neck Road 
Swansea, MA 02777 
 
By email only: alanna.solitro@swanseaschools.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Solitro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 28, 2024, alleging that 
the Swansea School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on September 20, 2024, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 8, 2024.  
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting when 
members attended and spoke at a Select Board meeting held on September 17, 2024.  
   
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and video recordings of the Committee meetings 
held on September 9 and September 16, 2024, as well as the notice, open session minutes and 
video recording of the Swansea Select Board meeting held on September 17, 2024.
1   
 
 
 
1 Video recordings of the Committee meetings held on September 9 and September 16, 2024, are available at: 
https://vimeo.com/channels/1505236/page:3; a video recording of the Select Board meeting held on September 17, 
2024, is available at: https://vimeo.com/channels/1046679/page:3. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
The Committee held a duly posted meeting on September 9, 2024.  During the meeting, 
the Committee heard from Superintendent of Schools Scott Holcomb who explained that the 
Governor raised the per-student reimbursement from $30.00 to $120.00.  Superintendent 
Holcomb advised the Committee that he met with Swansea school principals and discussed how 
best to allocate the additional funds, which amounted to $150,000.  He stated that there was 
agreement to allocate such funding towards increasing security and safety of the schools.  
Superintendent Holcomb suggested using the money towards a “gap analysis” where the school 
system hires a third-party vendor to analyze school buildings and security systems, and then 
receives a report on any gaps in those buildings and systems, as well as areas that should be 
prioritized.  The Committee discussed how best to use the additional $150,000, whether to 
pursue a “gap analysis,” and how much that analysis would cost.  The Committee unanimously 
voted to draft a warrant article for the Special Town Meeting in October which would allocate 
$150,000 to the schools. 
 
The Committee held a duly posted meeting on September 16, 2024.  At the beginning of 
the meeting, Committee Chair Alanna Solitro acknowledged an incident that had recently 
occurred at the high school and shared the Superintendent’s statement about the incident.  The 
Committee heard from members of the public about the safety of the schools and Committee 
Member James Cavalho asked for the public’s patience while the Committee discusses hiring a 
third-party vendor to assess the safety of all schools.  The Committee then discussed the draft 
warrant article that it had authorized during the previous meeting and whether the article should 
be brought to the May Special Town Meeting, rather than the October Special Town Meeting.  
Superintendent Holcomb advised the Committee that he had spoken with the Town 
Administrator who suggested that the Committee hold the warrant article, allocating for 
$150,000, until the May Special Town Meeting.  Because of the recent incident at the high 
school, Superintendent Holcomb urged the Committee to vote to place the article on the October 
Special Town Meeting warrant.  He explained again the suggested use of the $150,000 for a 
facilities assessment, where a third-party vendor analyzes school buildings and security systems 
and provides a report on needed changes to infrastructures, in what order those changes should 
occur, and the cost for those changes.  The Committee unanimously voted to not place the article 
on the warrant for the May Special Town Meeting.   
 
The Select Board held a meeting on September 17, 2024, and a quorum of Committee 
members attended that posted meeting.
2  During the meeting, the Select Board heard from 
Superintendent Holcomb who advised the Select Board that the Governor raised the per-student 
reimbursement from $30.00 to $120.00, which meant that the town was receiving an additional 
$150,000.  Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, he asked the Select Board to approve a 
warrant article which would allocate $150,000 to the schools for a facilities assessment.  During 
the meeting, Chair Solitro and Committee Member Cavalho, who both identified themselves as 
 
2 A video recording of the Select Board meeting held on September 17, 2024, clearly shows four members of the 
Committee sitting in the audience. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members of the Committee, spoke about the facilities assessment that the Committee wished to 
pursue with the $150,000.  Ultimately, the Board unanimously voted for the Town Administrator 
to “work with the School Department to write an article for the Special Town Meeting warrant” 
in October. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law excludes from the definition of “meeting,” however, the 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meetings on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.”  Id.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted 
meeting when two Committee members spoke during the Select Board meeting held on 
September 17, 2024.  Here, a quorum of Committee members attended the Select Board’s 
September 17, 2024, meeting.  A quorum of one public body may be in the same place at the 
same time, including attending the meeting of another public body, provided they do not 
deliberate.  See OML 2019-103; OML 2015- 38.
3  In considering whether members of a public 
body deliberated at another public body’s meeting, we look for indicia such as whether the 
public body members were seated with the general public and whether they participated by open 
participation to conclude that no improper deliberation occurred.  See OML 2016-117; OML 
2013-38.  Although Chair Solitro and Committee Member Carvalho sat in the audience and 
participated as part of an open discussion, they spoke as Committee members on behalf of the 
Committee, not as members of the general public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2016-117.  
However, their comments were limited to providing information on matters the Committee had 
already publicly discussed during properly posted meetings held on September 9 and September 
16, 2024, and they did not convey any new opinions.  See OML 2022-138.  Therefore, we find 
that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when Chair Solitro and Mr. Carvalho 
spoke about the facilities assessment at the Select Board meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Scott C. Holcomb, Superintendent of Schools – By email only: 
scott.holcomb@swanseaschools.org 
Swansea Town Clerk – By email only: dpelland@swanseama.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
