===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
February 13, 2020
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
OML 2020- 19
Katherine Feodoroff 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street 
Suite IF
Millis, MA 02054
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Feodoroff:
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on November 12,1 alleging that 
the Ashland Mindess School Building Committee (the “Committee”) and Owner’s Project 
Manager Selection Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 
30. After being granted an extension of time by our office, you responded on behalf of the 
Committee and Subcommittee by letter dated October 25. The complaint alleges that 1) minutes 
of the Subcommittee’s February 27 meeting were not timely approved, 2) the Committee and 
Subcommittee did not post meeting minutes to the Town’s website,2 3) the Committee convened 
a meeting on September 23 without posting notice, 4) the Committee failed to create minutes for 
the September 23 meeting, and 5) the Committee or Subcommittee convened additional meetings 
without posting notice or creating minutes.
Following our review, we find that the Committee and Subcommittee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the response, the Massachusetts School Building Authority’s (MSBA) website, the 
Complainant’s public records requests and responses thereto, a video recording of the September 
23 community forum, and the Subcommittee’s meeting minutes. We also communicated with 
Counsel for the Committee3 and the Complainant by phone and email.
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 As the Division clearly explained in OML 2018-86, a determination resolving an earlier complaint filed by the 
Complainant, the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to post meeting minutes to a website. Because 
this allegation, even if true, would not violate the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review it. We again remind the 
Complainant that where, as here, it is clear that a public body has not violated the Open Meeting Law, the 
Complainant should refrain from filing further complaints making the same allegation.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee is a twelve-member public body; thus, 
seven members constitute a quorum. The Committee was charged with exploring options with 
regard to the David Mindess Elementary School building and whether it should be renovated, 
expanded, or rebuilt. The Subcommittee was a five-member public body comprised entirely of 
Committee members and created by the Committee to assist in selecting a project manager for 
the school building project. The Subcommittee convened its final meeting on February 27, and 
was dissolved by the Committee at the Committee’s October 1 meeting. At the October 1 
meeting, the Committee approved the minutes of the Subcommittee’s February 27 meeting.
In pursuing the school building project, the Town partnered with the MSBA. This 
partnership required that the Town participate in the MSBA’s Designer Selection Process, 
including the Designer Selection Panel. The Designer Selection Panel is convened by the MSBA 
and is comprised of thirteen members appointed by the MSBA and three representatives of the 
local municipality, including a representative designated by the School Committee, the 
superintendent of schools or a designee, and the chief executive officer of the municipality or a 
designee. Here, the Town representatives to the Designer Selection Panel were Paul Kendall, 
Superintendent James Adams, and Town Manager Michael Herbert. In addition to their roles on 
the Designer Selection Panel, all three representatives were also members of the Committee, and 
Paul Kendall and James Adams were members of the Subcommittee as well. The Committee and 
Subcommittee did not select the representatives to the Designer Selection Panel, nor did they 
create subcommittees to participate in the MSBA’s Designer Selection Process.
On September 23, the Committee hosted a community forum at which the design team 
and project manager for the school building project provided information to the community and 
answered questions. Mr. Kendall, as chair of the Committee, opened the forum by welcoming the 
audience, thanking the Committee and Subcommittee members for their work, discussing the 
early milestones of the project, and discussing the Subcommittee’s work and the MSBA 
Designer Selection Process. After Mr. Kendall’s introductory remarks, members of the design 
team and the project manager gave presentations on various aspects of the project and answered 
questions from the audience. At the conclusion of the presentations, Mr. Kendall, the project 
manager, and a member of the design team answered questions from the audience. A quorum of 
the Committee attended the September 23 community forum. Other than Mr. Kendall, no 
members of the Committee spoke during the forum. Additionally, other than Mr. Kendall, 
members of the Committee sat in the audience and did not sit together.
On September 23, the Town received a public records request from the Complainant 
requesting, in part, that all Committee notices, meeting minutes, and documents from the 
creation of the Committee through the date of the request be posted online or emailed to the 
Complainant. The Complainant amended his request to include all subcommittees “or other 
public bodies that spawned off this group.” On September 25, the Town responded to the 
Complainant’s request by directing him to the Committee’s website where all notices, minutes, 
and documents for both the Committee and the Subcommittee are available to the public. The 
Town further responded by stating that other than the Subcommittee, no additional 
subcommittees had been created. Finally, the Town noted that to the extent the Complainant’s
2

===PAGE 3===
public records request was referring to the MSBA’s Designer Selection Panel, the Designer 
Selection Panel was a public body created by the MSBA, not the Committee.
DISCUSSION
L. The Subcommittee’s February 27 Meeting Minutes Were Approved in a Timely Manner.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (2). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General's Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.4 When a subcommittee has been 
disbanded, the parent public body should approve the subcommittee’s meeting minutes. See 
OML 2012-111; OML 2016 -96; OML 2017-34.
The Subcommittee last met on February 27. At the Committee’s October 1 meeting, the 
Committee disbanded the Subcommittee and approved the Subcommittee’s February 27 meeting 
minutes. Because the Subcommittee had not met more than three times after February 27, and 
the Committee approved the Subcommittee’s minutes promptly after disbanding the 
Subcommittee, we find that the Subcommittee’s February 27 meeting minutes were timely 
approved.
2. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When a Quorum Attended the
September 23 Community Forum Without First Posting Notice.
Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of ever meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” Id. However, this definition includes several 
exceptions, including that the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private 
gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event” shall not 
constitute a meeting, “so long as the members do not deliberate.” Id “Deliberation” is defined, in 
relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “quorum” is defined as “a simple majority of the members of 
the public body.” Id
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website,
www, m ass. go v/a go/openm ggtjng.
3

===PAGE 4===
The September 23 community forum provided an opportunity for the design team and 
project manager of the school building project to provide information to the general public and to 
answer their questions. The only Committee member who spoke at the community forum was 
the Chair, who, acting as host, made introductory comments and answered questions from the 
public. No other Committee members addressed the community forum. Additionally, the 
Committee members did not address each other, and they did not sit together.5 Therefore, we 
find that the Committee did not deliberate at the community forum. See OML 2019-79; OML 
2015-114 (“We have stated in the past that no improper deliberation takes place when less than a 
quorum participates in a discussion at a public event like the one at issue here.”). Because the 
community forum did not include any deliberation by members of the Committee, it was not a 
“meeting” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, the Committee was not required to 
post notice for the community forum or create minutes. See OML 2019-79.6
3. We Do Not Find That the Committee or Subcommittee Convened Additional Meetings
Without Posting Notice or Creating Minutes.
The Complainant alleges that “other meetings occurred in the selection of the PM and 
companies for this project.” After review of the materials provided and communications with the 
Complainant, it appears that the Complainant is referring to meetings of the MSBA’s Designer 
Selection Panel. Although the three Town representatives on the Designer Selection Panel were 
also Committee members, they do not constitute a quorum of either the Committee or the 
Subcommittee. We find no evidence that either the Committee or Subcommittee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by convening additional meetings without posting notice or creating minutes.
5 The Complainant alleges that, in addition to the Chair, members of the Committee spoke and asked questions 
during the forum, but we fail to find evidence to support this allegation. Absent sufficient evidence to support the 
complaint’s allegation, we credit the Committee’s account of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133; OML 
2015-8.
6 In communications with the Complainant he asserts, citing to Boelter v. Bd. of Selectmen of Wavland. 479 Mass. 
233 (2018), that the Chair’s communications at the community forum are akin to an email sent between public body 
members outside of a public meeting. Boelter addressed a situation where a public body chair circulated to all board 
members, by email, board members' individual written evaluations, as well as a composite written evaluation, of the 
town administrator's performance. By contrast, here, the Chair spoke to members of the public at a community 
forum, which members of the Committee happened to attend. We do not find Boelter to be an analogous case. For 
the reasons explained above, we find that the type of attendance and participation at a community forum at issue in 
this case does not violate the Law.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, we find that the Committee and Subcommittee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by 
this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that 
may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
ilizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ashland Mindess School Building Committee
Stephen Morgan
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
