===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass. gov/ago
June 6, 2019 
OML 2019-65
Karis North, Esq.
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Ms. North:
This office received three complaints from Ronald Alexander on November 9 and 
November 14, alleging that the Natick Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Between September 19 and September 23, Mr. Alexander 
filed eight separate Open Meeting Law complaints with the Board, and subsequently requested 
further review by our office of six of those complaints. This determination addresses complaints 
four, five, and six. These three complaints were originally filed with the Board on September 23 
and you responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 10. In 
complaints four and five, Mr. Alexander alleges that the Board failed to respond to his request to 
inspect open session meeting minutes and to release minutes from the Board’s July 30 meeting 
within ten days. In complaint six, Mr. Alexander alleges that the Board failed to timely review 
executive session minutes for the Board’s August 6 meeting.2
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes but did not violate the law in the other ways 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
response to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office for further review. In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and the open session minutes of the Board meetings held on
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 The November 14, 2018, request for further review filed with our office regarding complaint six further 
alleges that the Board failed to timely create and approve minutes of the August 6 meeting. We decline to 
review this allegation as it was not raised in the initial complaint filed with the Board and the Board has 
not had an opportunity to respond. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3); OML 2013-147.
o
1

===PAGE 2===
July 30 and October 1, as well as the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board 
meeting held on August 6.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for, and then held, a public 
forum regarding the adult use of marijuana and the downtown parking garage project on July 30. 
The Board also duly posted notice for, and then held, a meeting on August 6. At its August 6 
meeting, the Board first convened in open session at approximately 6:00 PM and approved a 
unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session. In executive session the Board 
discussed matters pertaining to the purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property (Swain 
House and Mechanic Street) and discussed strategy with respect to the case, Natick Patrol 
Officers Association v. Joint Labor Management Committee, et al. (1884CV02333) as well as 
Massachusetts Opioid Litigation Attorneys under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3)(“Purpose 3”). The 
Board reconvened in open session at 7:16 PM.
On September 10, the complainant submitted a request to the Board via email for a copy 
of the open and executive session minutes from the July 30 Board meeting and all Board 
meetings in August. On September 23, having received no response from the Board, the 
complainant filed the subject Open Meeting Law complaints (complaints four, five and six) 
regarding the Board’s failure to timely respond to his request for, and failure to release, the July 
30 minutes and failure to timely review executive session minutes from the Board’s August 6 
meeting.
The Board duly posted notices for, and then held meetings on, October 1 and October 15. 
During its October 1 meeting, the Board approved the meeting minutes from its August 6 
meeting. On October 10, the Board provided the complainant with a copy of the draft minutes 
from the Board’s July 30 meeting. During its October 15 meeting, the Board approved the 
meeting minutes from its July 30 meeting.
DISCUSSION
I. The Board Failed to Timely Respond to a Request for the July 30 Meeting Minutes
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[mjjnutes of all open sessions shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved 
or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(c).
Complaint four alleges that the Board failed to respond within ten days to a request to 
inspect copies of the July 30 open session meeting minutes, while complaint five alleges that the 
Board failed to release copies of the July 30 open session meeting minutes within ten days of the 
request. The complainant requested minutes from the Board’s July 30 meeting on September 10, 
but did not receive a response until October 10, when the draft minutes were provided to him.
We credit the Board’s account that it inadvertently overlooked the July 30 meeting minutes, as
2

===PAGE 3===
the meeting was a public forum, where no Board action was taken. Nonetheless, the Open 
Meeting Law required the Board to respond to the request within 10 calendar days of the request 
with an explanation of whether the minutes did or did not exist in either approved or draft form. 
See OML 2019-35; OML 2017-50; OML 2015-173.3 Because the Board failed to respond 
within ten days to the request for meeting minutes, we find that it violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We note that the Board had already taken appropriate remedial action by responding to the 
complainant’s request and providing the meeting minutes before the complainant requested 
further review by this office. We therefore order no additional remedial action.
II. The Board Was Not Required to Conduct a Review of Executive Session Meeting
Minutes That did not Yet Exist.
Complaint six alleges that the Board failed to timely review the executive session 
minutes from its August 6 meeting in response to his September 10 request for those minutes. 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); 
see OML 2019-35; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, a public body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the body has not performed a review, it must 
do so and release any non-exempt minutes, or portions thereof, not later than the body’s next 
meeting or in 30 days, whichever first occurs. See id.; OML 2019-3; OML 2013-180. If the 
minutes do not yet exist, the body is not required to conduct a review. OML 2019-35. In either 
circumstance, however, the body should still respond to the requestor within 10 days.
Here, the Board responds that the August 6 executive session meeting minutes did not 
yet exist at the time of the request, and that it therefore was not required to perform a review of 
the minutes to determine whether they could be released or whether continued non-disclosure 
was warranted. We agree. We credit the Board’s account that minutes did not exist at the time it 
received the complainant’s request.4 Therefore, the Board was not required to conduct a review 
of the executive session minutes to determine whether they could be released. We note, 
however, that the Board still should have responded within 10 calendar days of the request with
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 We remind the Board that meeting minutes, including executive session minutes, must be approved in a timely 
manner. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 
30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29:11; 
OML 2018-154; OML 2018-48.
3

===PAGE 4===
an explanation of whether the minutes did or did not exist in either approved or draft form. See 
OML 2019-35; OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to the 
request for meeting minutes within 10 days, but did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged. Because the Board has already produced the requested meeting minutes, we 
order no further remedial action. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please contact our office at (617) 963-2540.
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis
Special Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Natick Board of Selectmen
Ronald Alexander
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
