===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 25,2019
OML 2019-89
Robin Craver 
Town Administrator 
Town of Charlton 
37 Main Street 
Charlton, MA 01507
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Craver:
This office received a complaint from Gerard Russell on June 29, alleging that the 
Charlton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 31, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 20. The complaint alleges that the Board took action 
on topics that were not sufficiently detailed on its May 15 meeting notice.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the 
notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board’s May 8 meeting; the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board’s May 15 and June 19 meetings; and the notice of the 
Board’s May 29 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. “A marijuana establishment or a medical marijuana 
treatment center seeking to operate ... in a municipality which permits such operation shall 
execute an agreement with a host community setting forth the conditions to have a marijuana 
establishment or medical marijuana treatment center located within the host community ....”
o
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
G.L. c. 94G, § 3(d). “Host community” is defined as “a municipality in which a marijuana 
establishment or a medical marijuana treatment center is located or in which an applicant has 
proposed locating a marijuana establishment or a medical marijuana treatment center.” G.L. 
c. 94G, § 1.
During a May 8 meeting, the Board convened in executive session “to consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real estate - relative to a host agreement.” The Board 
then discussed the terms of a host community agreement with Valley Green Grow, a 
corporation seeking to build an indoor cannabis cultivation facility at 44 Old Worcester Road. 
Specifically, the Board discussed such terms as excise taxes, property taxes, development 
fees, license fees, and an annual impact fee.
On May 10 at 10 A.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 15 at 
6:30 P.M. The notice listed eight topics, including “Host Agreement - 44 Old Worcester 
Road,” “Land Development (see agreement),” “Host Agreement,” and “Non-Opposition 
Letter.”
The May 15 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board reviewed 
and discussed the terms of a host community agreement with Valley Green Grow for a 
cannabis cultivation facility at 44 Old Worcester Road. Many of the agreement terms 
discussed during this meeting - excise taxes, property taxes, development fees, license fees, 
and an annual impact fee - were the same ones that the Board discussed during its May 8 
executive session. The Board then unanimously voted to accept the “Retail Host Community 
Agreement” and unanimously approved a non-opposition letter, which stated that the “Town 
of Charlton does hereby provide non-opposition to [Valley Green Grow] to operate a DPH or 
CCC license type, in the Town of Charlton.” The day after the May 15 meeting, numerous 
citizens approached Board members voicing their concerns about the facility.
On May 22 at 7:45 A.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 29 
at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed “Charlton Orchards Cannabis Facility Meeting” as its main 
topic of discussion.
The May 29 meeting was held as planned and the Board received a presentation from 
Valley Green Grow regarding its plans to build a cannabis cultivation facility at 44 Old 
Worcester Road, otherwise known as Charlton Orchards. Over 400 residents attended the 
meeting. At the conclusion of the meeting, Chair John McGrath announced that the Board 
would accept written comments over the next two weeks and then review again the host 
community agreement it voted on during the May 15 meeting at its June 19 meeting.
On June 13 at 5 P.M., the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on June 19 at 
6:30 P.M. The notice listed thirteen topics, including Scheduled Appointments, with a 
subtopic of 44 Old Worcester Road - Host Agreement and Non-Opposition letter. Listed 
under the 44 Old Worcester Road subtopic was “Citizen requests to be heard,” “Support, 
Opposition and Miscellaneous letters,” and “Discussion regarding reconsideration of May 15, 
2018 vote.”
2

===PAGE 3===
The June 19 meeting was held as planned. The Board read answers submitted by 
Valley Green Grow in response to questions posed by community members after the May 29 
public hearing, including concerns about odor, water use, environmental contamination, 
security, and economic impact on the neighborhood. The Board heard from the land owner of 
44 Old Worcester Road who supported the cannabis cultivation facility and from two citizens, 
one of whom was the complainant, who opposed the facility. The Board then discussed 
whether to rescind its vote to approve a host community agreement with Valley Green Grow 
that was taken during the May 15 meeting. Ultimately, by a vote of 4 to 1, the Board ratified 
its vote of May 15 to accept a host community agreement with Valley Green Grow and 
approve the sending of a non-opposition letter.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2018-13; OML 2015-35.2
The complaint alleges that the Board’s May 15 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail 
with respect to certain topics on which the Board took action. Specifically, the meeting notice 
listed “Host Agreement,” “Land Development” and “Non-Opposition letter” as topics. The 
discussions regarding these topics during the May 15 meeting related to the approval of a host 
community agreement with Valley Green Grow for a cannabis cultivation facility at 44 Old 
Worcester Road. Although the notice included the specific location of the facility, 44 Old 
Worcester Road, the notice included no mention of a cannabis cultivation facility or other 
marijuana establishment. We find that the terms that were listed on the notice, without more, 
did not adequately inform the public of the nature of the discussions that would occur during 
the meeting. See OML 2018-38. The term used by and defined in the law governing 
marijuana establishments is “Host Community.” See G.L. c. 94G, § 1. The law further 
provides that a marijuana establishment seeking to operate in a municipality shall execute an 
agreement with the host community. G.L. c. 94G, § 3(d). As such, the term “Host 
Agreement” as used by the Board on the May 15 meeting notice, was a specific legal term 
that, in the absence of additional detail or context, would not have been widely understood as 
referring to a marijuana establishment. “Land Development” and “Non-Opposition letter” do 
not provide further clarifying detail. Therefore, the meeting notice did not sufficiently alert 
members of the public that the Board would be discussing a marijuana establishment - a topic 
that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public interest. We, therefore, find that the Board
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to sufficiently describe the topics on the May 15 
meeting notice.
Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficiently detailed notice, we commend the Board for acknowledging citizens’ concerns 
after its May 15 vote, holding a public hearing on May 29, allowing for a two-week comment 
period thereafter, and finally reviewing its vote at the June 19 meeting. As such, we order no 
further remedial action.
Although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with one of the Board’s 
executive session discussions during the May 8 meeting. A public body may convene in 
executive session “to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the 
chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position 
of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). Narrowly construed, Purpose 6 
permits a public body to meet in executive session to protect its negotiating position when 
seeking to purchase, exchange, lease or value real estate, or to discuss the value of real estate 
where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. Id.; Allen v. Board of Selectmen 
of Belmont 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003). See also OML 2018-49. Here, the 
Board’s discussions under Purpose 6 during the May 8 meeting did not consider the purchase 
or sale of land, or its value for the purpose of a transaction, but rather discussed the monetary 
terms that would be provided to the town should it execute a host community agreement with 
Valley Green Grow for a cannabis cultivation facility at a particular property in town. See 
OML 2013-156. We conclude that the Board’s discussions were not appropriate under 
Purpose 6 where the Board did not discuss the value, lease, purchase or sale of real property. 
We understand that the Board has since released this portion of the minutes of the May 8 
executive session.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
caution the Board that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
4

===PAGE 5===
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Gerard Russell
Charlton Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
