===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 11, 2014 
OML 2014-113 
Thomas Wrynn 
Chair, Wrentham Planning Board 
Wrentham Town Hall 
79 South Street 
Wrentham, MA 02093 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Wrynn: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Mavrides, dated July 21, alleging that the 
Wrentham Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint alleges that: 1) individuals who are not members of the Board engaged in 
improper email communications; 2) individuals who are not members of the Board met to 
negotiate a zoning deal outside of a Board meeting; 3) two individuals who are not members of 
the Board "fixed" a Town Meeting vote; 4) the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting; 
5) the Board improperly posted a meeting notice; 6) the Board approved a zoning change without 
public input; and 7) the Town's bulletin board is not accessible 24 hours a day and the Town 
website frequently has been inaccessible. The complaint was dated July 29, however it was 
received by the Town Clerk on July 7. The Board responded to the complaint by letter dated 
July 16. 
For the reasons stated below, we decline to review the complainant's first five allegations 
and find no violation with respect to the remaining two. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the July 7 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's July 16 response; and the July 
21 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we spoke with Mr. Mavrides by telephone on 
August 15 regarding his allegations. 
The complaint alleges that the Town's bulletin board is not accessible 24 hours a day and 
the Town website frequently has been inaccessible. For meetings of a local public body, notice 
shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
===PAGE 2===
at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c). A town may choose a website as an alternative notice posting method. 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b)(a). In accordance with the Attorney General's regulations, the Town notified our 
office on February 28, 2014 that it was adopting its website as the Town's official notice posting 
method. See 940 CRM 29.03(l)(c). According to the Town Clerk's Office, the website has been 
functioning normally and notices are accessible to the public. Without any specific evidence that 
the website has been unavailable, we find that the Board complied with the law. 
The complaint also alleges that the Board approved a zoning change without public input. 
It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic without first 
taking comments from the public. OML 2014-23. The law states that "[n]o person shall address 
a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The Board chair therefore has discretion to decide 
whether or not to permit public comment during a meeting. See id.; OML 2014-23. 
Accordingly, the Board did not violate the law as alleged. We express no opinion as to whether 
any other law may have required that the Chair allow members of the public to speak during the 
meeting. 
With respect to the remaining allegations, we decline to review them because, even if 
true, they either would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law or they are not alleged 
with sufficient specificity. First, the Open Meeting Law governs meetings of public bodies. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Individuals who are not members of a public body are not subject to the 
Law's requirements, thus we decline to review allegations one, two, and three. See id. The next 
two allegations are generalized in nature. Our office will not conduct broad audits of public 
bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2013-180. The complaint fails to specify 
which meeting the Board may have failed to notice, and when and in what manner the Board 
may have deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. The Board maintains that it has properly 
posted notice for its meetings and denies any improper deliberations. Because the complaint 
does not identify any evidence to the contrary, we decline to review allegations four and five. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or with 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Michael Mavrides 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 