===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 15, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 233 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph Callanan 
Brookline Town Counsel  
jcallanan@brooklinema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Marissa Vogt on May 3, 2023, alleging that the 
Brookline Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 12, 
2022, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated August 28, 2023.
1 The 
complaint alleges that the Committee met in executive session on September 8, 2022,2 without a 
proper purpose.3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed, in camera, minutes 
for the Committee’s September 8 executive session. 
 
1 The Committee requested an extension of time to respond to the complaint, and our office granted an extension 
until October 11, 2022. Despite several follow-up communications from our office inquiring about a response, the 
Committee did not respond to the complaint until almost a year had passed from the date the complaint was initially 
filed with the Committee. We remind the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaint s 
within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
2 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
3 The Committee has indicated that the Complainant and the Committee have agreed to ask our office to review the 
propriety of two additional executive sessions—held on September 20 and 22—not included in the original 
complaint. Because no formal complaint has been filed concerning the propriety of the September 20 or 22 
executive sessions, we decline to formally review their propriety here. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1) & 
(4); OML 2023-136, n. 2. However, we note that the analysis set forth below with respect to the September 8 
executive session applies equally to the September 20 and 22 executive sessions .  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The C ommittee, which was established under 
Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 39, Section 16, primarily reviews and makes nonbinding 
recommendations on all matters to be considered by Town Meeting. In addition to its role 
advising Town Meeting, the Committee also has sole authority to approve transfers from the 
Reserve Fund, a fund established to address unforeseen or emergency expenditures, as well as 
the Town’s Liability Insurance Fund to cover litigation-related expenses for the Town. See G.L. 
c. 40, § 6; St.1998, c.66, § 2, as amended by St.2001, c.137, § 1. When asked to approve a 
transfer of funds from the Reserve Fund or Liability Fund for a litigation matter, the Committee 
is sometimes provided with information about the litigation matter requiring the funds.  
 
Prio
r to the Committee’s September 8 meeting, the Brookline Select Board decided to 
settle three litigation matters—a civil action filed by a former Library employee alleging 
unlawful retaliation and two pre-suit claims brought by employees alleging unlawful sexual 
harassment. Because the proposed settlement amounts exceeded the amount in the annual budget 
earmarked for settlements, the Committee needed to approve a transfer from the Reserve Fund or 
Liability Insurance Fund in order for the Board to move forward with its plan to settle the 
matters.  
 
On September 8, the Committee convened in executive session to discuss the proposed 
settlements. The minutes of the September 8 meeting have not yet been released to the public 
and were reviewed in camera; therefore, we only summarize their content here. During the 
September 8 executive session, the Committee discussed with legal counsel background 
information about the litigation and potential litigation matters and asked questions regarding the 
propriety and potential impact of settling the matters.  
 
After concluding its discussion in executive session, the Committee reconvened in open 
session. The Committee made separate motions to transfer $114,835.38 and $152,500.00 from 
the Liability Insurance Fund to settle the two pre-suit claims brought by employees alleging 
unlawful sexual harassment. Prior to voting on each motion, the Committee voted to table the 
motions until September 20. Finally, the Committee moved to transfer $115,000.00 from the 
Liability Insurance Fund to settle the matter alleging retaliation. The motion failed. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to . . . litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the . . . litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares” (“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
A public body, generally, may only convene in executive session under Purpose 3 where 
the body has a
 bargaining or litigating position of its own to protect. However, municipal finance 
committees are often charged with budgetary oversight and therefore, a finance committee may 
enter executive session to consider legal expenditures, but not litigation strategy, in connection 
with a civil action in which a municipal body other than the finance committee is a party. See 
OML 2011-47; Filippone v. Mayor of Newton, 392 Mass. 633, 625 (1984) (holding that a 
finance committee could enter executive to consider appropriation of litigation expenses where 
the mayor was the named party); see also OML 2014-141.
4  
 
Here, although the Committee is not a named party to the litigation matters discussed 
during the S
eptember 8 executive session, it had a role to play with respect to those litigation 
matters where its approval was required in order to fund the proposed settlements. Therefore, we 
find that it was permissible for the Committee to meet in executive session to discuss whether to 
approve a transfer of funds for the purpose of settling the subject litigation matters where, as in 
Filippone, “public discussion . . . could involve disclosure of the legal theories of the 
defendant[], thereby possibly impairing [its] strength in settlement negotiations or at trial.” 
Filippone, 392 Mass. 622, 625. Although we find that the Committee’s discussion focused 
primarily on information related to the question of whether to transfer funds for the purpose of 
settling the litigation matters, we remind the Committee that it is incumbent upon the public 
body to carefully monitor its executive session discussions to ensure that topics do not stray from 
the lawful purpose for which the executive session was called. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate that Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brookline Advisory Committee c/o Lisa Portscher, Secretary for the Advisory Committee 
(via email: lportscher@brooklinema.gov)  
 Ben Kaufman, Brookline Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@brooklinema.gov) 
Marissa Vogt (via email: ) 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 