===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 48 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Charles Whitten 
Chair, Ipswich School Committee  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Whitten: 
This office received a complaint from Irene Josephson on January 26, 2022, alleging that 
the Ipswich School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 5, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 19.1 In her complaint, Ms. 
Josephson alleges that the notice for the Committee’s November 4 meeting contained one item 
that was insufficiently specific. 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the Committee’s 
notices for November 4 and December 2 meetings as well as a notice for a joint meeting with the 
Ipswich Select Board held on November 16.  
 Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Although the Law does not require public bodies to list 
all tangential topics related to a discussion, it requires public bodies to identify the discussion 
topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-156; OML 2015-73. 2  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 Ms. Josephson alleges that the item “Preparation for Select Board Meeting,” on the notice 
for the Committee’s November 4 meeting did not reasonably advise the public that the 
Committee would discuss a proposal to build a new school on Bialek Park. We find, and the 
Committee has conceded, that this item was insufficiently specific. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In response to the complaint, the Committee 
apologized and committed to ensuring that future meeting notices contain sufficient detail.  
 We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As the Committee has 
discussed the Bialek Park school proposal at several subsequent meetings for which more 
specific notices were posted, including at a joint meeting with the Select Board on November 16, 
we do not order the Committee to hold the November 4 discussion again at a future meeting.   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Irene Josephson (via email: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
