===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 1, 2016 
OML 2016-149 
Lisa Mead, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead & Talerman, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on August 8, alleging that 
the Ashland Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 11 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, in an August 4 email.2 The complaint alleges that the 
notice for the Board's July 12 meeting lacked sufficient detail and failed to identify an 
open session portion of the meeting in addition to an anticipated executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list "open session" as a topic on its July 12 notice. In reaching a determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the original 
and revised notice of the Board's July 12 meeting, a July 27 memorandum from Board 
Attorney Lisa Mead to the complainant, as well as an August 9 email to our office from 
Attorney Mead. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On July 7, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on July 12. The notice listed two different meeting times of 2 PM and 5 PM.3 The 
MAURA FIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We granted the Board an extension of time to respond until August 10. For purposes of clarity, we will 
refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The Board contends that the meeting started at 2 PM and ended at 5 PM. Listing two different times 
without clarifying one to be a start time and one to be an end time may cause confusion to the public and 
o 
===PAGE 2===
sole topic on the notice was listed below the heading "Executive Session" as "[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." 
After this notice was posted, the complainant raised concerns with the Town Manager 
about its sufficiency. The Board posted a revised notice on July 11 as follows: "[t]o 
discuss strategy with respect to collective or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." 
The complainant then filed this complaint on July 11, one day before the meeting, in an 
effort to correct the perceived violations of the Open Meeting Law. Despite the complaint, 
the Board proceeded with the meeting as scheduled. 
Following this meeting, the complainant and the Board attempted to resolve the 
issues raised in the Open Meeting Law complaint. As a result of these efforts, Board 
counsel drafted a memorandum to the complainant, dated July 27, setting forth a resolution 
and response to the complaint, which included the Board's pledge to list "Open Meeting" 
on the meeting notices for which an executive session is anticipated and to include 
sufficient detail about the executive session purpose(s) on the notices. The complainant 
wrote to our office informing us that he "supported the corrective action" outlined in the 
Board's memorandum, but did not "agree that it alone resolves the matter fully" and 
therefore asked our office to conduct a further review of the complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must 
include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten puiposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session 
the purpose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the 
public that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). This level of 
detail about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). One puipose for executive session is "[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(3) ("Puipose 3"). 
does not comply with the law's requirement that a notice include "the date, time and place" of the meeting. 
See G.L, c. 30A, § 20(b). We encourage the Board to make the meeting start time clear in future notices. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the notice for Board's July 12 meeting was not 
sufficiently specific. The Board's July 12 meeting had not yet occurred when the 
complainant filed his complaint. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless 
it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See 
OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.4 Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the 
meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the 
discussion topics. Id. In this instance, however, we find that the notice was inaccurate on 
its face because it did not indicate to the public that the Board would convene in open 
session. When the only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural 
requirements for entering executive session, listing "open session" on the meeting notice is 
the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in 
fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2015-105; OML 
2013-9. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity 
to attend and learn the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by omitting this 
information from its July 12 notice. 
Because the meeting had not occurred at the time this complaint was filed, 
however, we decline to review the sufficiency of the substantive discussion topic (ie., the 
topic describing the executive session). While we encourage citizens to reach out to public 
bodies in advance of a meeting to discuss any perceived violations, an Open Meeting Law 
complaint should only be filed after the meeting (or violation) has occurred. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that, unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the 
executive session, public bodies should state in their notice the name of the specific 
collective bargaining unit with which they will be negotiating or the specific litigation 
matter they plan to discuss. See OML 2015-175; OML 2015-157. We commend the 
Board for its efforts to resolve this complaint prior to our office's review and for its pledge 
to amend certain practices going forward, as agreed upon by the parties. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list "open session" as a topic on its July 12 meeting notice. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter. 
iFanne^l'ush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 