===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 149 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This letter addresses two complaints received from Adam Austin alleging that the North 
Reading Wastewater Planning Advisory Committee (“Advisory Committee”) and the North 
Reading Wastewater Working Group (“Working Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Working Group on 
November 21, 2022; Town Administrator Michael Gilleberto responded to the complaint by 
letter dated December 2, 2022; and the complaint was filed with our office on December 28, 
2022.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Working Group on December 21, 
2022, and with our office on February 15, 2023.  Collectively, the complaints allege that the 
Advisory Committee and Working Group have held meetings without complying with the Open 
Meeting Law’s notice and access requirements.   
 
Following our review, we find that neither group violated the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Town 
Administrator’s response and a supplemental response from town counsel, and the complaints 
filed with our office for further review.  We also spoke with Town Administrator Gilleberto by 
phone and reviewed a statement of the Wastewater Planning Advisory Committee Mission.   
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies, which are defined, in relevant part, as “a 
multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, there are three factors we consider: 1. The entity must be “within” government and not 
excluded from the definition of “public body;” 2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act 
===PAGE 2===
collectively; and 3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”  See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-
102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.1 
 
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law applies to meetings of public bodies; a “meeting” is 
defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.”  Id.  “Deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  A “quorum” is defined as “a simple majority of the members of 
the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order, or other 
authorizing provision.” Id.  If a public body’s discussion does not include a quorum of its 
members, then there is no deliberation necessitating a posted meeting. See id.; OML 2013-162. 
 
The Town contends that the Advisory Committee was created but never populated with 
members and never held meetings, and therefore could not have violated the Open Meeting Law.  
The Advisory Committee was created by the Select Board in January of 2020 to advise on 
wastewater issues affecting the Town.  According to the Advisory Committee’s Mission, also 
referred to as the “charge” from the Select Board, the Advisory Committee was to consist of 13 
members: two Select Board members, one representative each from seven specified entities, and 
four at-large members.  The Town asserts that nobody was ever appointed to the Advisory 
Committee.  The complainant asserts that two Select Board members—and nobody else—were 
appointed to the Advisory Committee such that those two members constitute a quorum.  We 
need not resolve this inconsistency as a quorum is measured by the number of members of the 
public body as constituted.  See Gamache v. Town of Acushnet, 14 Mass. App. Ct. 215, 219 
(1982) (noting that a Town bylaw established a board of appeals of five members, and a 
temporary vacancy did not alter that bylaw); OML 2021-53; OML 2013-162.  A quorum of a 13-
member public body that has only two serving members remains seven, so even if two 
individuals were appointed to the Advisory Committee, discussions among the two of them 
would not constitute meetings subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, the Advisory 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Next, the Town contends that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.  The Town asserts that the Working Group dates to at least 2014, when 
Town Administrator Michael Gilleberto was hired by the Town and the Town was in the early 
stages of considering the creation of or connection to a municipal wastewater system.  The Town 
contends that the Working Group has no set membership but that Mr. Gilleberto works closely 
with the Town’s Public Works Director, with other municipal employees providing assistance at 
times.  The Town asserts that two Select Board members were designated as liaisons to the 
Working Group to keep the Select Board apprised of the status of the Working Group’s research 
and planning, but that the Select Board members were not considered members of the Working 
Group.  The Working Group lacks authority to take action on any wastewater plan; instead, 
Town Administrator Gilleberto, with input from the Public Works Director and other staff, 
gathers information and presents proposals to the Select Board for review and consideration in 
open meetings.   
 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
We have consistently found that groups of employees who work together to carry out
their job duties, which groups lack a fixed membership and are not empowered to take collective
action, are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-56 (explaining
that city planning department staff who worked together to review wetlands ordinances and
propose amendments for consideration by the city council did not constitute a public body);
OML 2021-150 (explaining that a group of federal, state, and local employees who coordinated
on a project was not a public body where the group lacked a defined membership and set quorum
and was not empowered to act collectively); OML 2015-41 ("Though several individuals work
for the Agency, it is not a multiple member body empowered to act collectively because it does
not have a fixed membership requiring a vote by a quorum of members in order to make
decisions and conduct business."). Similarly, we have explained that government agencies and
municipal departments and their employees are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting
Law. See OMI Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries); OMI
Declination 4-13-20 (Town of Plymouth); OMI Declination 3-26-21 (City of Boston). Here,
too, we conclude that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting
Law.2
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Advisory Committee never held any
meetings and that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.
Therefore, neither violated the Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which
may be pending with our office, the Advisory Committee, or the Working Group. Please feel
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Сажё Beredon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Adam Austin (via email
)
Michael P. Gilleberto, Town Administrator (via email:
mgilleberto@northreadingma.gov)
North Reading Town Clerk (via email: bstats@northreadingma.gov)
2 Where we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law for the reasons
stated, we need not address whether the Working Group falls within the exception set forth in Connelly v. School
Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official,
who is not himself subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a group to "assist him in carrying out his
responsibility," that group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. at 235.
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 