===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
        
November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 185 
 
 
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
By email only: liz@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Lydon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Allison Sloan on May 1, 2023, and a second 
complaint on May 19, 2023, alleging that the Middleton Flint Library Board of Trustees (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The first complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on February 24, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated March 13.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on March 17, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 
10.  The first complaint alleges that the Board deliberated after the conclusion of a meeting held 
on February 13, 2023.  The second complaint alleges that the Chair of the Board failed to 
disseminate a prior Open Meeting Law complaint to all members of the Board. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to disseminate an Open Meeting Law complaint to all members of the Board.  We find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and 
the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the 
notice and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on February 13 and the notice and 
open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on March 13, as well as a video 
recording of the February 13 meeting.
2  Finally, we spoke with the complainant on October 25, 
2023. 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on February 13 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yKgDndklzB0. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The complainant is a member of the Board. 
 
 The Board held a meeting on February 13 and reviewed two sets of meeting minutes, one 
of which was from a meeting held on January 9.  During the Board’s review of the minutes of the 
January 9 meeting, the discussions became heated.  The complainant requested that a few words 
be added to one section of the minutes but other Board members disagreed.  After five minutes 
of discussion, Vice Chair Erin Bennett made a motion to “accept the minutes as is.”  The 
complainant suggested that Ms. Bennett could not make such a motion while the Board was still 
discussing the minutes.  Board Member Timothy Houten then asked if there was a motion to add 
the language requested by the complainant; a motion was made but the motion was not approved 
by majority vote.  The Board then approved, by majority vote, the January 9 minutes as written.
3 
 
The Board discussed the remaining open session topics, which included reviewing and 
approving a policy for the library’s public meeting room, receiving an update from the Friends of 
the Library, receiving an update from the Interim Town Administrator on the process to evaluate 
the Library Director, and receiving updates from the Library Director on library programs, 
staffing issues and budget requests.  At the conclusion of the February 13 meeting, Mr. Houten 
said he wanted “to make a statement” to the Chair and to everybody.  The video recording was 
then turned off and the statement was not recorded.    
 
During the March 13 meeting, the Board convened in executive session under Purpose 1 
to discuss the first Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here alleging that the Board deliberated 
after adjourning from the February 13 meeting.  The Board has released the minutes of this 
executive session.  The minutes state “Mr. Houten explained that the statement he made after the 
Board adjourned the February 13 meeting was simply summarizing his actions for which he was 
apologizing to the Board (specifically for speaking loudly during the meeting).”  The 
complainant also states that Mr. Houten repeated his opinion on why the January 9 minutes did 
not need to be amended, in addition to apologizing to the Board.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
 
3 We note that one member of the Board participated remotely during the February 13 meeting.  The Open Meeting 
Law requires that all votes taken during a meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by roll call 
vote, even unanimous votes.  See 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); OML 2016-132; OML 2015-145.  Here, the Board did not 
take any votes by roll call even though a member participated remotely.  We remind the Board of its obligations 
under the Law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medi
um, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The first complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated when Mr. Houten 
made a statement after the Board adjourned from the February 13 meeting.  We do not find here 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law even though the statement was made in the 
presence of a quorum of Board members and related to Mr. Houten’s opinion on the sufficiency 
of the minutes of the January 9 meeting.  Rather, we find that Mr. Houten simply repeated the 
opinion that he had just shared during the open session portion of the February 13 meeting, and 
did not convey any new opinion on the matter.  See OML 2022-138; OML 2020-48.
4  Moreover, 
we find that portion of Mr. Houten’s statement in which he apologized to the Board to be a 
communication that fell outside the Board’s jurisdiction where it concerned purely interpersonal 
dynamics and did not involve the public body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or 
administration.  See OML 2018-1; OML 2011-38.  We recognize that it is sometimes difficult to 
determine whether, under the circumstances, a given communication constitutes deliberation 
under the Open Meeting Law.  As such, our office cautions public bodies on communicating 
outside of properly posted meetings.   
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to disseminate the first Open Meeting 
La
w complaint at issue here to all Board members.  The Open Meeting Law requires that within 
14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public 
body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that 
authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 
2017-69; OML 2012-90.  Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public 
body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body.”  
940 CMR 29.05(3).  The purpose of this requirement is to make sure all members of the public 
body are aware of the allegations in the complaint.  See OML 2016-88.  Here, the Chair admits 
that she did not disseminate the complaint to all Board members prior to the March 13 meeting.  
As such, we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law and note our concern that some members 
of the Board received a copy of the complaint in advance of the meeting, while other members 
did not. 
 
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  We recently advised the Board in a previous determination about the requirement to 
“disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body.”  See 940 CMR 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
29.05(3); OML 2023-38.  However, that determination was issued on March 22, after the Board 
met, reviewed and discussed the first Open Meeting Law complaint at issue here and therefore 
the Board had not yet received the benefit of our guidance in OML 2023-38.  Therefore, we 
decline to find that this violation was intentional, but we caution the Board that it has now been 
amply warned of its obligation to disseminate an Open Meeting Law complaint to all members, 
and it should not expect such leniency in the future.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to disseminate an Open Meeting Law complaint to all members of the Board.  In addition, 
we order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.    
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Allison Sloan – By email only:  
 Middleton Flint Library Board of Trustees – By email only: trustees@flintpublib.org 
 Middleton Town Clerk – By email only: ilene.twiss@middletonma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
