===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 15, 2014 
OML 2014-144 
Victoria Caldwell, Esq. 
Salem School Committee 
29 Highland Avenue 
Salem, MA 01970 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Caldwell: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. James Fleming and Dr. Brendan R. Walsh, 
dated August 5, alleging that the Salem School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on July 7, and the Committee responded by letter dated July 21. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee discussed items during a meeting that were anticipated but were not properly noticed. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; the 
request for further review filed with our office; the original and revised notices for a June 23 
meeting of the Committee; and the minutes from the June 23 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body that meets 
at regular intervals to discuss matters of significance to the Salem Public Schools. The 
Committee held a meeting on June 23. The original agenda for this meeting contained two items: 
(1) approval of a contract with the Salem Teachers Union; and (2) deliberation on the name 
change of the Salem Community Charter School. 
On Friday, June 20, a revised agenda was created which included two additional items: 
(3) the filing of a letter of intent with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
("DESE") to convert the Nathaniel Bowditch School to a charter school; and (4) to begin 
bargaining with the Salem Teachers Union on the subject of this charter school conversion. 
Because City Hall closes early on Fridays, the revised agenda was not posted on the City's 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
website or at City Hall until approximately 9:00 a.m. on Monday, June 23, the day of the 
meeting. 
During the meeting, the Committee deliberated on the added items, ultimately voting to 
send a letter of intent concerning the conversion of the Bowditch School and to authorize the 
initiation of bargaining with the union. These non-binding steps were taken to preserve the 
option of converting the Bowditch School into a charter school at a later date. Attorney Caldwell 
informed us that, ultimately, no application was made to convert the Bowditch School into a 
charter school, and no possibility exists of another application being made for such a conversion 
in the future. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In pertinent part, the law provides that "[e]xcept in an 
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c 30A, § 20(b). 
The complainants are Committee members who allege that the Committee's failure to 
post the additional agenda items in a timely manner deprived citizens of notice that the 
Committee would be discussing topics "of wide concern to the parents, teachers and citizens of 
Salem." The Committee's response states that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate needing to 
discuss these topics earlier than June 20, as she did not anticipate needing the Committee's 
authorization prior to a June 26 deadline to submit the letter of intent to DESE. The 
complainants have introduced no evidence to show that the Chair was aware of the need for the 
Committee to discuss these topics earlier than June 20. Absent evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the Committee's account of the facts. See OML 2014-122; OML 2013-133. Here, the 
Chair did not reasonably anticipate the discussion of these two items until June 20 -fewer than 
48 hours prior to the June 23 meeting, excluding Saturdays and Sundays. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); OML 2013-75. Because a public body may consider a topic that was not listed in the 
meeting notice if it was not anticipated 48 hours before the meeting, we find that there was no 
Open Meeting Law violation.2 See OML 2013-95. Although a public body may consider a topic 
that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly 
encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or 
may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
See OML 2012-3. 
2 See also the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/government-resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/oml-faq-meeting-notices.html. 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. James M. Fleming 
Dr. Brendan R. Walsh 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 