===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 20, 2024 
  
OML 2024 –174 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ross A. Vivori 
Town of Great Barrington Board of Assessors 
334 Main Street 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
  
rvivori@Townofgb.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Vivori:  
 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on July 12, 2024, alleging that the 
Great Barrington Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on May 15 and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated June 5.1  The complaint alleges that the notice of the Board’s 
March 21 meeting was not sufficiently specific and that minutes of the Board’s March 21 
meeting are not sufficiently detailed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
created and approved meeting minutes that were not sufficiently detailed.  We decline to review 
the allegation that the meeting notice was not sufficiently specific, as the complaint was untimely 
as to that allegation.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review filed with our office.  We also reviewed the 
notice and minutes relative to the March 21 meeting.   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on 
March 21 at 2:00, which included an executive session “under GL Ch. 59, s 60, Purpose (7)” to 
discuss “abatements” and other topics.  On or about May 13, the Board released unredacted 
minutes of the meeting held on March 21.  The minutes reflect a motion to enter executive 
session “under G.L. c 59, S 60, Purpose 7.”  Although the minutes are captioned “Executive 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Meeting Minutes – FINAL,” it appears that they encompass both the open session and the 
executive session portions of the March 21 meeting, as the vote to enter executive session is 
included in the minutes.  The minutes make no reference to the address or owner of any of the 
properties discussed.  The minutes summarize the Board’s discussions regarding the review of 
abatement applications as follows: 
 
The Board of Assessor reviewed six (6) abatement applications and their associated 
documents i.e. tax returns, income / expense information submitted by the applicants. 
Based on the information submitted and/or inspection of the properties the board granted 
four (4) abatements and denied three (3).  
 
DISCUSSION  
 
I. The complaint is not timely as to the allegation of insufficient notice.  
  
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a complaint must be filed with the public body within 
30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged violation could not have 
been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 
30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered.  940 
CMR 29.05(4).  See, e.g., OML Declination 9-27-21 (Ashland Select Board) (complaint that 
notice was insufficient for failure to identify property to be discussed in executive session 
untimely); OML 2019-92 (allegations of insufficient notice of executive session untimely).2  
Additionally, the complaint must be filed with the Attorney General within 90 days of the 
alleged violation or of the date it reasonably could have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(7).  It 
is unclear when the Board posted notice of the March 21 meeting.  At the latest, the complainant 
knew that the notice did not include the names or addresses or abatement applicants as of the 
date of the meeting, March 21.  See OML 2024-26 (complainant reasonably should have known 
of insufficient notice on or before date of meeting).  As the complaint was filed with the Board 
on May 15, more than 30 days after the alleged violation, and was filed with our office on July 
12, more than 90 days after the alleged violation, it was untimely as to the allegation of 
insufficient notice.     
 
II. Minutes of the March 21 meeting were not sufficiently detailed.  
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.  G.L. c. 30A, §22(a).  Minutes should contain enough detail so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred.  See OML 2024-135; OML 2022-189; OML 2013-l6.   
 
A public body may enter into executive session for any one or more of ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One enumerated purpose for 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
executive session is Purpose 7, “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7).  A public body 
entering executive session under Purpose 7 must identify the specific law that requires the public 
body to keep its deliberations confidential.  The minutes of the March 21 meeting identify G.L. 
c. 59, § 60, which concerns applications for tax abatement.3  
 
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must first convene in open session 
and vote in open session by roll call to enter executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §21(b)(1) and (2).   
The roll call vote must be reflected in the open session minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, §21(b)(2).  
Additionally, any vote taken during the executive session must be recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, §22(b).  Minutes of executive sessions must include the 
same level of detail as is required of open sessions.  See OML 2022-189.  Minutes of a board of 
assessors’ executive session must include the detail required by the Open Meeting Law, even if 
applications for abatement or exemption enjoy statutory confidentiality.  See, e.g., OML 2014-
140 (board violated Open Meeting Law when it did not include more complete summary of 
discussion or roll call vote relative to abatement application in executive session minutes); OML 
2012-101 (minutes of executive session that included property address, whether abatement was 
granted, amount of abatement if granted and vote were insufficiently detailed where they did not 
summarize discussion of 19 abatement applications prior to board’s vote).  As we have 
previously instructed the Board,4 it may not create insufficiently detailed meeting minutes as a 
means to protect information that it believes might be exempt from disclosure.  See OML 2023-
157; OML 2022-189.  Instead, the minutes of an executive session must be sufficiently detailed 
and then may be redacted or withheld as long as that statute’s confidentiality restrictions apply.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(7), 22(f); G.L. c. 59, § 60.  See also OML 2021-62.  If a Board of 
Assessors discusses an application for tax abatement or exemption in executive session under 
Purpose 7, citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 as the statute requiring confidentiality, the minutes may be 
withheld as long as that statute’s confidentiality restrictions apply.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(7), 
22(f); G.L. c. 59, § 60. 
 
The minutes of the Board’s March 21 meeting fail to list a property address or a 
substantive summary of the discussion of the applications.  It is unclear even how many 
applications were considered by the Board.  Minutes state that it “reviewed six (6) abatement 
applications” but also that it “granted four (4) abatements and denied three (3),” which suggests 
that seven applications were reviewed.  The minutes also fail to reflect the roll call votes that 
were taken relative to these abatement applications.  Finally, the Board continues to improperly 
mingle minutes of a meeting’s open session with minutes of the same meeting’s executive 
session.  The minutes of the March 21 meeting purport to be of the executive session but include 
the vote to enter executive session, which should have occurred in open session.   
 
 
3 The complainant notes that boards of assessors are required by law to record all abatements of taxes.  G.L. c. 59, § 
60.  Ms. Mooney appears to argue that because the public may inspect the books of abatements, the statute prohibits 
the review of abatement applications in executive session.  We have long recognized that public bodies may 
convene in executive session to review abatement applications.  See OML 2024-133; OML 2023-241; OML 2021-
62; OML 2012-89.     
4 See OML 2023-241. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
When a meeting includes an executive session, two sets of minutes generally will be 
generated: minutes of the open session, which include a summary of any discussions held in 
open session, together with the roll call vote to enter executive session; and minutes of the 
executive session, which include a summary of any discussions held in executive session, 
together with any votes conducted in executive session, all of which must be conducted by roll 
call.  As the Board failed to create adequate meeting minutes of its March 21 meeting, we find 
that it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create adequate minutes of the March 21 executive session.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  In addition, we order the Board to amend minutes for 
the March 21 meeting, consistent with the guidance provided above.  We reiterate that the 
minutes must contain the detail required by the Law, even if the executive session minutes will 
be withheld from the public in whole or in part due to confidentiality.  We order the Board to 
certify that it has complied with this order within 40 days from the date of this letter.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc:  Eileen Mooney (via e- mail:  
 Town Cl erk (via e-mail: JRisen@Townofgb.org) 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
