===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
JulyS, 2017 
OML 2017- 110 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received three related complaints from MaryBeth Wiser, all dated May 30, 
alleging that the Rowley Board of Water Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Two of these complaints were filed with the Board on 
May 10, and the third was filed with the Board on May 11. The Board responded to all three 
complaints on May 25. In her complaints, Ms. Wiser alleges that the Board deliberated by e-
mail. 
Following our review, we find that two of the e-mails referenced in the complaints 
constituted improper deliberation. However, the third did not. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Board's responses, and the requests for further review filed 
with our office. We also reviewed three e-mails sent by former Board chair John Manning, dated 
May 3, 8, and 10. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. The 
complainant is the Rowley Water Superintendent. At all times relevant to these complaints, the 
Board chair was John Manning. The complaints concern three e-mails circulated among the 
Board members. In all cases, the complainant circulated the draft agenda for a Board meeting, 
and Mr. Manning replied to the two other Board members along with the complainant. 
On May 3, Mr. Manning wrote the following: 
What was the winning bid for paving? How close did it come to our budgeted amount? 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
MaryBeth 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Like to know now w waiting for meeting. 
Tx 
John 
On May 8, Mr. Manning wrote the following: 
I have a family obligation that 1 need to attend to on wed may 10. 
We. We 'd [sic] like to reschedule the meeting[.] Does 5/16 work? 
Kathy please cancel wed 10th mtg. 
([MaryBeth] is on PTO)backwed. 
If everyone can meet the 16,h, then we will move fwd, will wait for Wed when MB is hack. 
On May 10, Mr. Manning wrote the following: 
Approved 
However one question 
How can we award contracts if the vendor has not secured COI (cert of ins) and all the 
other Or pre work that's needs [sic] to be done.- please prepare to discuss at the meeting 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A meeting is defined as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Deliberation is defined in relevant part as, "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. However, "deliberation" does not include "the distribution 
of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is 
generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. Communication on matters 
within a body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-
15.2 
The complaints contend that each of the e-mails described above constituted improper 
deliberation outside of a noticed meeting. We note that the May 8 e-mail relates solely to 
scheduling. As such, it does not constitute deliberation and it did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2016-115. However, the May 3 and 10 e-mails contain questions relating to 
Board business. This is the type of communication, when occurring between or among a quorum 
of the Board, that may only take place during a noticed meeting. See Gerstein v. Superintendent 
Search Screening Committee. 405 Mass. 465, 470 (1989) (questions posed by a quorum of a 
public body constitute deliberation as the "means by which [the public body] gathered 
information to aid it in arriving at a decision.") Accordingly, we find that the May 3 and 10 
e-mails violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-44. Nevertheless, we recognize that 
Mr. Manning was merely asking factual questions in the May 3 and 10 e-mails and did not 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
believe such questions to be improper. In the future, Board members should direct inquiries to 
administrative staff without copying the other Board members. Additionally, when 
administrative staff send documents such as draft meeting agendas, they should do so by blind 
copying the Board members. This alleviates the concern that members may accidentally copy 
each other on a response. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. In its 
responses, the Board stated that it released all three e-mails during its May 23 meeting. We 
commend the Board for this proactive step to address the violations, and we therefore order no 
additional relief. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Rowley Board of Water Commissioners 
MaryBeth Wiser 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 