===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 11, 2019 
OML 2019-116
William H. Elovirta 
Chairperson
Town of Becket Board of Selectmen 
557 Main Street 
Becket, MA 01223-3252
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Elovirta:
This office received two complaints from George Roberts, Town Clerk for the Town of 
Becket, on December 4, 20181, alleging that the Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board 
on or about October 16, and the Board responded by letter dated October 26. In his complaints, 
Mr. Roberts alleges that the meeting notices for the Board’s September 5 and October 3 meetings 
were insufficiently detailed and that the Board continued to discuss agenda items after they had 
been voted on.
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, with regard to the complaint concerning the Board’s October 3 meeting, 
we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. With regard to the complaint 
concerning the Board’s September 5 meeting, we decline to review these allegations as the 
complaint was not timely filed. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and recordings of the September 
5 and October 3 meetings.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On August 31, the Board posted notice for its September 5 
meeting. Included on the meeting notice as the seventh item for discussion was “BOS to discuss 
and possibly vote on Town Counsel’s recommended changes to the Code of Conduct Policy.” At 
its September 5 meeting the Board discussed potential changes to the code of conduct. The
o
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates are in 2018.

===PAGE 2===
Board discussed the harassment policy, what to do if individuals refuse to certify that they have 
read the code of conduct, and that it should be noted that the code of conduct had been revised. 
After a motion passed to approve the changes to the code of conduct, the Board briefly discussed 
how to disseminate the updated code of conduct to current and future appointees. The Board 
discussed that the new code of conduct could be given to the chairs of committees and boards to 
distribute to current members and that it could be included in the packet the Town Clerk provides 
to new appointees.
On October 1, the Board posted notice for its October 3 meeting. Included on the meeting 
notice as the fifth item for discussion was “BOS to discuss and vote on possible revisions to the 
Code of Conduct Policy.” At its October 3 meeting, the Board discussed further proposed 
revisions to the updated code of conduct it had discussed at its September 5 meeting. The Board 
also discussed a memorandum for individuals to sign who refuse to certify that they have read 
the code of conduct, and that vaping and tobacco use are prohibited in public buildings. After 
passing a motion to accept the revisions, a member of the Board noted that chairs of committees 
would be expected “to enforce that after people sign it.”
The Complainant filed two complaints with the Board on or about October 16, one 
concerning the September 5 meeting notice and discussion and one concerning the October 3 
meeting notice and discussion.
DISCUSSION
L We Decline to Review the Complaint Concerning the September 5. 2018. Meeting Because it
was not Timely Filed.
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation would 
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(4). When an 
alleged violation occurs during an open session, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable 
at the time it occurs. See OML Declination 7-3-2018 (Truro Select Board); OML 2017-41, Fn.
2.2
The Board posted notice for its September 5 meeting on August 31, which included the 
topic “BOS to discuss and possibly vote on Town Counsel’s recommended changes to the Code 
of Conduct Policy.” The Board held the September 5 meeting as planned, and the meeting took 
place entirely in open session. On September 5, any member of the public could have observed 
the Board’s discussion and determined whether the notice topic was sufficient and whether 
improper discussions took place. Therefore, any complaint regarding the sufficiency of the 
meeting notice or the impropriety of any discussion, should have been filed within 30 days of the 
September 5 meeting. Since the complaints were not filed with the Board until October 16, we 
find the allegations relating to the September 5 meeting to be untimely and therefore decline to 
review them. See OML 2019-92.
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
2. The Notice for the Board’s October 3 Meeting was Sufficiently Detailed and the Board’s
Discussion During the Meeting did not Violate the Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider atopic sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
The Complainant argues that the Board’s notice stating “BOS to discuss and vote on 
possible revisions to the Code of Conduct Policy” was insufficiently detailed. We disagree. After 
reviewing an audio recording of the October 3 meeting, we find that the Board had a brief 
discussion concerning revisions to the updated code of conduct, the addition of a memorandum 
for individuals who refuse to certify that they have read the code of conduct, and that vaping and 
tobacco use are prohibited in public buildings. We find that a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic “BOS to discuss and vote on possible revisions to the Code of Conduct 
Policy” and understand the anticipated nature of the Board’s discussion. See, e.g., OML 2019-58 
(finding that a notice topic indicating that a particular policy would be discussed, but not 
identifying any specific aspects of the policy that would be addressed, was sufficiently detailed).
The Complainant further alleges that it was improper for the Board to continue discussing 
the code of conduct after it had voted to accept the revisions. Nothing in the Open Meeting Law 
speaks to whether discussion may continue after a vote has been taken. As such, the Board’s 
brief discussion after it voted to accept the revisions did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: George Roberts
3

===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
