===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 19, 2019 
OML 2019-150
Timothy D. Zessin, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Zessin:
This office received a complaint from Michael Baril on February 19, 2019, alleging that 
the Warren Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 10, 2019, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 31, 2019. The complaint alleges that the 
Chair of the Board and certain other town employees knew that the subject of an executive 
session discussion under Purpose 1 was going to request that the discussion be held in open 
session, but that the matter was nonetheless listed on the meeting notice as a topic to be 
discussed in executive session in an effort to discourage public attendance at the meeting.1
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. 
However, we independently note that the Board held an improper discussion under executive 
session Purpose 1, failed to state that it would hold discussions under Purpose 2, failed to 
announce whether it would reconvene in open session, failed to vote by roll call to enter into 
executive session, and failed to approve minutes for the December 17 meeting in a timely 
manner. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response, materials sent via email dated February 19, 2019, on which our office was carbon 
copied, Mr. Baril’s request for further review, a video of the December 17, 2018, Board
1 Mr. Baril also alleges in his request for further review that Counsel for the Town of Wanen did not have authority 
to respond to this Open Meeting Law complaint on behalf of the Board. Mr. Baril further alleges that the 
participation of administrative secretary, Rebecca Acerra, in preparing the response was inappropriate. We do not 
address these allegations as they were not raised in the original complaint. See OML 2012-92; OML 2019-76.
o
1

===PAGE 2===
meeting,2 and minutes of the December 17, 2018, executive session. We also communicated with 
Counsel3 via email.
FACTS
On December 6, 2018, the Board posted notice of its December 17 meeting. The notice 
included two substantive topics: an anticipated executive session under Purpose 1 and an 
anticipated executive session under Purpose 2. The notice, with regard to the executive session 
under Purpose 1, read as follows “Anticipated Executive Session in accordance with G.L c30A, 
Section 21(a)(1), to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather 
than professional competence, of an individual, or discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual (Police 
Department).” With regard to the executive session under Purpose 2, the notice read 
“Anticipated Executive Session in accordance with G.L. c30A, Section 21(a)(2), to conduct 
strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel (Chief of Police).”
Days before the December 17 meeting, the Chief of Police, the subject of the Purpose 1 
executive session, informed the Chair of the Board that he, the Chief of Police, intended to 
request that the discussion be held in open session. The Chair, believing that the subject of a 
Purpose 1 discussion has the right to require the discussion be held in open or executive session 
and may reconsider his choice through to the time of the meeting, did not amend the meeting 
notice.4
On December 17, 2018, the Board convened its meeting and the Chair moved to enter 
into executive session under Purpose 1 stating, “anticipated executive session in accordance with 
Mass General Laws 30A, Section 21(a)(1), to discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual.” The Chair called for a roll call vote, although the vote was not taken by 
calling on each member to vote one at a time. The Board voted affirmatively to enter into 
executive session under Purpose 1. The Chair did not move to enter into executive session under 
Purpose 2 and the Board never voted to enter into executive session under Purpose 2. The Chair 
did not announce whether the Board would reconvene in open session or would adjourn from 
executive session.
The Chief of Police did not arrive at the meeting until half an hour after it began. In the 
interim, the Board discussed the job performance of the Chief of Police and then proceeded to 
discuss his reappointment. Because the Board has not released the executive session minutes, we 
only briefly summarize their content here. The Chief of Police arrived at the meeting after the
2 The video can be found at https:/Avww. youtube.comAvatch?w=vVAo-OdXg5g.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.
4 The Board argues that the subject of a Purpose 1 discussion has the right to require a public body to hold the 
discussion in open session or executive session, whichever the subject chooses. This is not the case. Under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21 (a)(1), the subject has the right to have the discussion held in open session but does not have the right to 
require the discussion be held in executive session. The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to meet in 
executive session for a limited number of purposes but never requires a public body to meet in executive session. 
See OML 2011-53 (“The Board has sole discretion to determine what matters will be heard in executive session.”)
2

===PAGE 3===
Board had concluded its discussions regarding his job performance and reappointment. The 
Board refused to reopen its discussion when the Chief of Police arrived.
The Board approved the minutes for the December 17 meeting on October 28, 2019.
DISCUSSION
L The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Convening an Executive Session
Under Purpose 1 When the Subject of the Discussion Had Earlier Expressed a Desire to
Hold the Discussion in Open Session.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 
21. A public body may convene in executive session for any of ten purposes, including “to 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of discussion has the right to receive written notice 
of the proposed executive session at least 48 hours in advance, to be present during executive 
session deliberations involving him, to have counsel present to advise him, to speak on his own 
behalf, and to cause an independent record of the executive session to be created at his own 
expense. Id. Additionally, if the individual requests that the session be open, the public body 
must hold the discussion in open session. Id. Executive session topics must be described, both in 
the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A,
§ 21(b)(3).
The Complainant alleges that the Chair and certain other town employees5 knew that the 
Chief of Police was going to request that the Purpose 1 discussion be held in open session, and 
that there was a plan among those individuals to adjourn the executive session and reconvene in 
open session in an effort to discourage public attendance at the meeting. We note first that the 
alleged plan to adjourn the executive session and reconvene in open session did not occur; the 
Board posted notice for an executive session and indeed held its discussion in executive session. 
Furthermore, notwithstanding a meeting notice’s inclusion of an executive session, there is never 
a guarantee that a public body will enter into executive session. The public body must meet in 
open session to vote to enter into executive session; this vote could fail, or the public body could 
otherwise choose not to convene in executive session. See OML 2013-856 (Board, realizing that 
it had posted notice for an improper executive session topic, chose to hold the meeting in open
5 To the extent that the complaint makes allegations against town employees who are not members of the Board, we 
note that the Open Meeting Law only applies to public bodies and their members; it does not apply to individual 
town employees.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
session.). Interested members of the public may attend the open session of the public body so 
that they can learn of the topic to be discussed in executive session and to be present in case the 
public body does not enter into executive session and instead holds its discussion in open 
session.7
Although a public body should not notice topics for executive session that it fully intends 
to discuss in open session with the intent of discouraging public attendance at meetings, there is 
no evidence in this case that the Board included the Purpose 1 notice topic with the intent of 
discouraging public attendance. Instead, the Board noticed the topic to be discussed in executive 
session under Purpose 1 because the Chair intended to hold the discussion in executive session, 
unless the subject of the discussion appeared and requested otherwise. Indeed, the Chief of 
Police was not present to request an open session and the Board held the discussion in executive 
session. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Law as alleged.
Though not raised in the complaint, however, our office identified several other concerns 
regarding the conduct of the Board’s December 17 meeting. We address those matters below.
2. The Board Held an Improper Discussion Under Executive Session Purpose 1.
A public body may only discuss matters in executive session that fit within one or more 
of the ten enumerated purposes allowed for under the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2013-91. 
One appropriate purpose for an executive session is “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (emphasis added). During the 
Board’s December 17 Purpose 1 executive session, it discussed an ongoing issue related to the 
job performance of the Chief of Police. The Board did not discuss the Chief of Police’s 
reputation or character, nor was the meeting disciplinary. The discussion also did not address 
specific complaints against the Chief of Police. The entire Purpose 1 executive session 
discussion concerned the professional competence and performance of the Chief of Police, and 
thus should not have been held in executive session. See OML 2014-151.
3. The Board Failed to State That It Would Hold Discussions Under Executive Session
Purpose 2, Failed to Announce Whether It Would Reconvene in Open Session. Failed to
Take a Roll Call Vote, and Failed to Approve Minutes for the December 17 Meeting in a
Timely Manner.
Before entering into executive session, the chair must “state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. [The chair must also] publicly announce whether the open 
session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3)-(4).
7 The Complainant also alleges that a public body cannot adjourn an executive session and then reconvene in open 
session. He alleges that a public body would have to post a new notice for an open session before continuing the 
discussion. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body post notice for a new meeting if the subject 
of a Purpose 1 executive session chooses to have the discussion held in open session after it was listed on a meeting 
notice for executive session.
4

===PAGE 5===
The vote to enter into executive session must be “recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2).
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). All meeting minutes must 
be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (2). The 
Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public 
body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2); OML 2019-115. Whenever possible, we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.
After review of the video recording of the December 17 open session and the executive 
session minutes of the same date, we note that the Chair did not state that the Board would enter 
into executive session under Purpose 2, yet the Board held a discussion in executive session 
about the reappointment of the Chief of Police. We also note that the Chair did not announce 
whether the Board would reconvene in open session and that the vote to enter into executive 
session was not taken by roll call.
Additionally, the Board did not approve executive session minutes for its December 17 
meeting until October 28, 2019, well outside of the three meetings or 30 days allowed for under 
the Open Meeting Law and its regulations. We remind the Board of its obligations to follow the 
procedures set out in the Open Meeting Law for entering into executive session, to limit its 
executive session deliberations to the purposes set out in the Law, and to review and approve 
meeting minutes in a timely manner.
Finally, we remind the Board that Executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id- When an executive session was improperly held, such as because the topic 
discussed was not proper for executive session, minutes of the executive session may not be 
withheld. See OML 2018-49; OML 2012-71.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged, although we 
remind the Board of its obligations under the Law in several other respects. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact 
the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
5

===PAGE 6===
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Michael Baril
Warren Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6
