===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 19, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 103 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Kathryn Fallon, Esq. 
City Solicitor  
City of Malden Legal Department 
110 Pleasant Street, 3rd Floor 
Malden, MA 02148 
legal@cityofmalden.org  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Solicitor Fallon: 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on March 20, 2020 alleging that 
the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 13, and you responded on behalf 
of the Council by letter dated February 3.1 In his complaint, Mr. DeLacey alleges that the 
Council selected a new President during an unnoticed “private session” during the January 6 
inaugural festivities at Malden High School.2  
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice for its January 6 meeting and creating an 
impression that its January 6 “organizational meeting” was not open to the public. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, 
the complainant’s request for further review, and the Council’s August 11 supplemental 
response, including all attached materials. We also reviewed, 1) meeting minutes for the January 
6 meeting; 2) a video of the January 6 Malden Inauguration Ceremonies; 3) and the City’s 
website for the January 6 meeting notice. Finally, we corresponded by email with you and Mr. 
DeLacey on several occasions in August 2020 and spoke to Mr. DeLacey by phone on August 3.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included 
in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and 
will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At approximately 12:17 p.m. on January 2, the City Clerk 
posted a notice for a meeting of the Council which stated: “The Malden City Council will hold a 
meeting on January 6, 2020 at Malden High School during a recess in the inaugural ceremony 
for the purpose of selecting a Council President for the year 2020.” 
On January 6, the City hosted an Inauguration Ceremony for members of the public to 
witness the Mayor, City Council and School Committee being sworn into office. Outgoing 
members of City public bodies were recognized and numerous local arts and culture groups 
performed. At approximately 48 minutes into the festivities, the Council’s President, who served 
as emcee for the celebration, asked City Messenger Peter Levine to “retire the Council for 
organization and the election of a President.” The band then began to play and all members of 
the Council, followed by the School Committee, followed the City Messenger off the ceremony 
stage and out of the auditorium. The Council proceeded into a classroom down the hall in order 
to hold its annual “organizational meeting” to select a President to lead the Council for the year. 
At no point before or during the processional was the public invited to join the Council for its 
organizational meeting, nor was the public informed where in the High School the Council 
would be holding its meeting. After the Council members left the stage, the inaugural festivities 
continued with more music, performances and speeches. 
At 6:57 p.m., Councilor Spadafora convened the Council’s meeting and the City Clerk 
administered the swearing in of all Council members and “the signing of the book.” Four 
motions were then made by various Councilors to 1) open nominations for the 2020 Council 
President; 2) nominate Councilor Sica for 2020 Council President; 3) close nominations for 2020 
Council President; and 4) elect Councilor Sica as 2020 Council President. All four motions 
passed unanimously. At 7:06 p.m., the meeting was then adjourned. 
Approximately fifteen minutes after leaving the auditorium, the Council returned to the 
stage and the new President was announced.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21; OML 2018-38. The Open Meeting Law further states that “a 
public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting” and 
“[n]otice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, 
time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added). 
 At approximately 12:17 p.m. on January 2, the City Clerk posted on the City’s website, 
which is the City’s official notice posting location,3 a notice for a meeting of the Council which 
stated: “The Malden City Council will hold a meeting on January 6, 2020 at Malden High School 
during a recess in the inaugural ceremony for the purpose of selecting a Council President for the 
 
3 See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
year 2020.” We find that this meeting notice was insufficiently detailed as it did not specify a 
start time. See OML 2013-161 (“Members of the public should not have to guess when a 
meeting will start or attend the entire [prior meeting] to avoid the risk of missing a portion of the 
Board’s meeting.”).4 As the inaugural ceremonies lasted one hour and forty five minutes, the 
Council should have noted a specific start time on its meeting notice with a caveat that the 
meeting might start later if the ceremonies ran late.5 The Council’s meeting notice was also 
deficient because it did not specify where in Malden High School the Council’s organizational 
meeting would take place. See OML 2017-179 (a notice that merely stated “Town Hall” as a 
location was insufficiently detailed.) For these reasons, we find that the Council’s January 6 
meeting notice was insufficiently detailed with respect to both the time and place of the meeting.  
 Furthermore, we find, and the Council does not dispute, that the Council’s organizational 
meeting, held during the inaugural festivities, constituted a meeting for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law that should have been open to the public. The Council asserts that the 
organizational meeting was open to any member of the public who wished to attend. However, 
the Council President’s comments prior to the Council leaving the auditorium stage implied 
otherwise. The Council “retired” out of public view, a word that suggests seclusion. In addition, 
the Council members proceeded out of the auditorium together in a formal manner, and no 
announcement was made to indicate that the public was able to follow the Council to the 
organizational meeting or where that meeting would be held. Furthermore, contrary to the 
statement on the meeting notice that the Council’s meeting would take place during a recess in 
the inaugural ceremony, there was no recess; music played as the Council members left the 
auditorium and the ceremony continued immediately thereafter. These circumstances, taken 
together, created the impression that the public was not permitted to attend the organizational 
meeting. Therefore, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by holding a 
meeting that was not accessible to the public.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its January 6 meeting and by holding a meeting on 
January 6 that was not accessible to the public.  
 We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Council that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. However, as the Council’s 
choice of President was announced publicly in the auditorium immediately following the 
meeting, and was the only item of business during the Council’s nine-minute meeting, we order 
no further relief. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
5 The fact that the Council held its organizational meeting during another meeting is not itself a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brian DeLacey (via e-mail:  ) 
 Malden City Council c/o Lisa Cagno, Clerk of Committees for the Malden City Council 
 (via e-mail: lcagno@cityofmalden.org ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
