===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 3, 2017 
OML 2017-165 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comrtlaint 
Dear Attorney McEnaney; 
This office received a complaint from Peter Stanley on June 7 alleging that the 
Phillipston Finance Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 3; and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated May 17. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee deliberated by email outside of a meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from the Committee's May 3 
meeting; the minutes from the May 3 Town Meeting; and the May 2 email correspondences 
between Board of Health Office Manager Laurie Pearson, Committee Chair Tom Specht, and the 
Committee. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on September 25 and October 11.3 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 In his June 7 complaint filed with this office, the complainant additionally alleges that the Committee failed to 
discuss his Open Meeting Law complaint during a meeting and deliberated on May 16 outside of a properly posted 
meeting. We decline to review these allegations because they were not included in a complaint to the Committee 
and the Committee has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
However, we note that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body 
must meet to review the complaint's allegations; the public body may then delegate responsibility for responding to 
the complaint to legal counsel. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body; thus four 
members constitute a quorum. For fiscal year 2018, the Committee recommended an $8,000 
budget for the Board of Health. 
On May 1, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on Wednesday, May 3 
at 6:30 p.m. The topic listed on the notice was "To discuss any last minute changes to warrant 
articles," including passing over articles, changes to allocated money, or changing accounts that 
funds will be transferred to and from. 
On May 2 at 8:57 a.m., Laurie Pearson, Office Manager for the Phillipston Board of 
Health, sent an email to Committee Chair Tom Specht. The email said, in pertinent part, "Just 
before Town Meeting Warrant went before the Selectmen I found out that the office payroll 
budget was about to be reduced by $5000.00. ... If this change goes through, the BoH will be 
without office funding from mid-April next year to the end of the fiscal year. . . . We would ask 
that this decision be overturned at Town Meeting." 
On May 2 at 11:12 a.m., Chair Specht forwarded Ms. Pearson's email to the six 
Committee members, as well as to the Board of Selectmen. The email included the following 
statement from Chair Specht: "F.Y.I. Someone needs to question the amount and put back the 
original request?" Committee member Kristen Stanley responded approximately one hour later 
stating "Some if [sic] this information could have been provided had someone been more 
forthcoming with information. I believe that we calculated the recommendation based on the 
hourly rate information provided by the Treasurer multiplied by the hours the office is actually 
open (6) with a bit extra as a buffer, so I'm not sure how others feel, but I believe that our 
recommendation is close to what they need and should stand. Just my two cents for what it's 
worth." Ms. Stanley's response was sent to the entire Committee, as well as the Board of 
Selectmen. 
The Committee convened a meeting at 6:40 p.m. on May 3, just prior to the beginning of 
Town Meeting, which began at 7 p.m. that evening. However, according to the minutes and 
Committee Attorney Thomas McEnaney, the Committee did not act upon any items prior to or 
during Town Meeting. During Town Meeting, a motion was made to set the Board of Health 
payroll at $13,000. After discussion, a vote was taken and the amendment did not pass. The 
Board of Health payroll for fiscal year 2018 was set at $8,000. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
2 
===PAGE 3===
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated by email on May 2 outside of a 
properly posted meeting. The Committee contends that the email "was sent solely to Committee 
members for informational purposes for Town Meeting and was not intended to invite any 
deliberation." We are not persuaded and conclude that the May 2 email sent by Chair Specht to 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law because it constituted a communication between 
a quorum of the public body. The Open Meeting Law affords a limited exception to the 
definition of "deliberation" for the distribution of certain administrative documents, such as a 
meeting agenda or scheduling information, provided that no opinion of a public body member is 
expressed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Apart from this limited exception, a quorum of the Board 
may not communicate on matters within its jurisdiction outside of a meeting. See OML 2015-
139.4 Here, the May 2 email essentially requested action by the Committee on a financial matter 
that had been previously discussed and decided by the Committee. Moreover, while Chair 
Specht may not have intended to invite deliberation, his email did just that as Ms. Stanley 
responded sharing her opinion with the entire Committee. The expression of an opinion of one 
public body member on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-
33. Thus, the email contained an improper deliberation which should not have occurred outside 
of a posted meeting. Recognizing that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether 
communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, our office cautions public 
bodies on the use of electronic communications. See OML 2014-80; OML 2017-88. 
The Committee further argues that the email pertained to "a potential budgetary 
discussion" at Town Meeting and therefore fell within an exception to the definition of meeting. 
The definition of "meeting" in the Open Meeting Law specifically excludes "session[s] of a town 
meeting convened under section 9 of chapter 39" and "the attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at any such session." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Chair Specht's email and Ms. Stanley's response 
did not occur during a session of town meeting; rather the email communications occurred on 
May 2, the day before Town Meeting. As such, we find that the email communications do not 
fall within this narrow exception to the definition of meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating by email. We order immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
intent to violate the law. We order the Committee to publicly disclose the May 2 email 
communications at its next meeting.5 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Phillipston Finance Committee 
Peter Stanley 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 The Committee must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order to publicly disclose 
the email communications within 30 days of receipt of this letter. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). 
Sincerely, 
Kerry/\nne Kiicoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 