===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
  
June 10, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 78 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michele Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
 
This office received a complaint on September 6, 2020,1 from Attorney William Henchy, 
filed on behalf of his clients David Flattery, William Souza, and Jeffrey Souza. The complaint 
alleges that the Board of Directors of the Provincetown Public Pier Corporation (the “Board”), 
and a subcommittee of the Board, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board created a subcommittee to review dockage use 
applications for the 2020 season and that this subcommittee failed to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 8, and the Board 
responded by letter dated June 26.    
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint includes several allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, and which we decline to review for that reason. See OML 2019-85; OML Declination 
1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Specifically, we decline to review the allegation that 
the Board failed to post meeting minutes to a website. Although the complaint poses questions regarding when 
certain meeting minutes were approved, and although the Board responded by providing information about whether 
and when these minutes were approved, we understand from the full context of the complaint and the request for 
further review that the complaint is concerned with the alleged failure to post meeting minutes to a website. The 
Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies post meeting minutes to a website. Rather, the Law requires 
that accurate minutes be created and approved in a timely manner, and that they be made available upon request. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Finally, we decline to review any allegations related to the sufficiency of the Board’s January 
14 meeting notice or a Board member meeting with pier tenants, which meeting was discussed during the January 14 
meeting, as those allegations were not timely filed with the Bord. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4); 
OML Declination 2-24-2020 (Duxbury Planning Board).  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board and the Dockage Allocation Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the 
minutes, notices, and recordings of Board meetings held on April 23, May 14, May 28, June 11, 
June 25, and July 9.3 Additionally, we communicated with Counsel for the Board4 via email and 
with Attorney Henchy by phone and email.  
 
FACTS 
 
Background 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Provincetown Public Pier Corporation (the 
“Corporation”) and the Board were created by Chapter 13 of the Acts of 2000 to manage the 
MacMillan Pier (the “Pier”) which is owned by the Town of Provincetown. The Corporation is 
governed by the Board, which is a five-member public body, with three members constituting a 
quorum. The Corporation employs a Pier Manager to manage the day-to-day operations of the 
Pier. Effective July 15, 2019, Douglas Boulanger was appointed Pier Manager. 
 
Each year, individuals seeking permits to dock vessels at the Pier must submit either an 
application or renewal application. Attorney Henchy’s clients—David Flattery, William Souza, 
and Jeffrey Souza—each submitted renewal applications for the 2020 season. David Flattery’s 
application for a commercial dockage permit was denied. An application filed by William and 
Jeffrey Souza for a commercial dockage permit for a fishing vessel they own jointly was also 
denied. With respect to a fishing vessel owned by Jeffrey Souza solely, Mr. Souza was 
reclassified as a “limited commercial” fisherman. In May, the Chair of the Board notified pier 
tenants whose applications had been denied or who had been reclassified of their right to appeal 
the Pier Manager’s decision to the full Board. Through Attorney Henchy, David Flattery, 
William Souza, and Jeffrey Souza each appealed their adverse application determinations. The 
Board heard the appeals, after two continuances, on June 25, and after another continuance, 
voted on July 9 to classify Jeffrey Souza as a full-time commercial fisherman, to support the Pier 
Manager’s decision with respect to the vessel owned by William and Jeffrey Souza jointly, and 
to request Mr. Flattery provide additional information regarding insurance for his commercial 
fishing vessel. 
 
Dockage Allocation Committee 
 
Neither the Board nor the Pier Manager remember exactly how the Dockage Allocation 
Committee (the “Committee”) came to be. In fact, they do not agree that such a committee was 
ever formed. The Board explained that it did not create a subcommittee to review dockage use 
applications at all. Instead, the Board explained that because the 2020 season was the Pier 
Manager’s first season overseeing the application process, he simply sought the advice of two 
experienced Board members, Carlos Verde and Scott Fraser, in reviewing applications. The Pier 
Manager, through Counsel, explained that he did not remember exactly how events unfolded, but 
that at some point it was suggested to him that he reach out to Mr. Verde and Mr. Fraser for 
 
3 Recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at http://www.provincetowntv.org/.   
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
advice in reviewing dockage use applications. The Pier Manager further described an informal 
process by which he communicated with Mr. Verde and Mr. Fraser on fewer than five occasions 
to seek advice and guidance on approximately four or five applications that presented particular 
challenges. Finally, the Pier Manager explained that when seeking this guidance, he usually 
spoke individually with either Mr. Verde or Mr. Fraser, but occasionally spoke with both at the 
same time.  
 
Notwithstanding the recollections of the Board and the Pier Manager, the recordings of 
the Board’s May 14 and 28 meetings reveal that, at that time, the Board and the Pier Manager 
believed a “Dockage Allocation Subcommittee” had been created. Notably, during the Board’s 
May 28 meeting, when providing background on the application process, the Pier Manager stated 
that “a subcommittee was formed to review the applications and Scott Fraser and Carlos Verde 
were members of that subcommittee.” Likewise, during the Board’s May 14 and 28 meetings the 
Chair referred to the “Dockage Allocation Subcommittee,” sometimes noting specifically that 
Mr. Verde and Mr. Fraser served on the subcommittee. Both Mr. Verde and Mr. Fraser spoke 
during the Board meetings in response to requests for updates from the subcommittee. 
Specifically, during the May 14 meeting, Mr. Verde explained “that Scott [Mr. Fraser], Doug 
[the Pier Manager], and myself have had meetings . . ., over the phone, [about] the allocation of 
the slips and everything was based on the information that we received from the applicants. . . . I 
think we did a very good job going through all the applicants and looking at all the information 
to make the decisions.” The Pier Manager then explained that each applicant who was denied a 
slip or was reclassified had been sent information about how to appeal the “decision that was 
made by the subcommittee.” Finally, during the May 28 meeting, with respect to an appeal 
unrelated to this complaint, the Chair moved to “support the decision of the Pier Manager and 
the subcommittee on behalf of the limited commercial classification for Leo Rose.”    
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies, 
which are defined, in relevant part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, 
region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve 
a public purpose.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A “subcommittee” is defined as a “multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” Id. The Supreme Judicial Court 
recognized an exception to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of public body in Connelly v. 
School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an 
individual public official creates a group to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the 
sole authority to make, that group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. 
at 235. 
 
Any public body subject to the Open Meeting Law must, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meetings of such bodies, unless lawfully 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
convened in executive session, must be open to the public, and accurate minutes must be kept for 
all meetings, including executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 22(a).  
 
I. The Pier Manager Created a Dockage Allocation Committee. 
 
Attorney Henchy alleges that the Board appointed a subcommittee consisting of Mr. 
Verde, Mr. Fraser, and the Pier Manager “to create and administer criteria for dockage renewal 
applications in 2020 and to evaluate, approve, or deny, commercial dockage applications for 
2020-2021.” Attorney Henchy alleges that this subcommittee failed to post meeting notices or 
create and approve meeting minutes. In response, the Board asserts that it did not create a 
subcommittee to review dockage use applications. Based on the Board’s response and 
subsequent communications with our office, we also understand the Board to assert that no 
committee was formed at all and that instead the Pier Manager informally consulted Board 
members Verde and Fraser concerning questions he had regarding a few applications. We also 
understand the Board to assert, alternatively, that if the Pier Manager indeed formed a committee 
to assist him in reviewing dockage use applications, that committee would be exempt from the 
Open Meeting Law under Connelly.   
 
Whether a subcommittee was created hinges on the public body’s action and whether it 
intended to create a multiple-member body. See OML 2018-128; OML 2017-111; OML 2016-
59; OML 2012-28.5 Unfortunately, we have been unable to ascertain the exact circumstances 
surrounding the creation of the Committee. However, from the contemporaneous evidence 
available to us, it is clear that the Board and the Pier Manager believed that a committee to 
review dockage use applications had been created somehow and that Mr. Verde and Mr. Fraser 
served on that committee. We find no evidence that the Board itself created the Committee; the 
fact that the Board referred to the Committee as a “subcommittee,” alone, is not determinative. 
See OML 2020-118 (noting that a school committee’s reference to certain groups as 
“subcommittees” did not automatically make them so). Based on our review of the available 
evidence, including the fact that the Committee’s purpose was to assist the Pier Manager in his 
review of dockage use applications notwithstanding that the Committee provided updates to the 
Board, we find that the Pier Manager created the Committee. 
 
II. The Dockage Allocation Committee Was Created to Advise the Pier Manager on a 
Matter Within the Pier Manager’s Authority, and is Not Subject to the Open Meeting 
Law.  
 
The Board asserts that any committee formed by the Pier Manager to assist him in 
reviewing dockage use applications falls within the judicially-recognized exemption to the Open 
Meeting Law’s definition of “public body,” as explained in Connelly, 409 Mass. 232. Whether 
the Connelly exception applies to the Committee hinges on the Pier Manager’s authority. 
Compare OML 2019-88 (explaining that the building inspector possessed the authority to make 
zoning decisions by himself, and therefore the group he assembled to advise him was exempt 
under Connelly), with OML 2017-120 (finding that the town administrator did not have sole 
authority over town property where he was required by statute to obtain authorization from the 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Board of Selectmen, and therefore the group assembled to advise him was not exempt under 
Connelly). As the Supreme Judicial Court explained in Connelly, “[o]f special significance is the 
fact that the superintendent, because he is clearly not a ‘governmental body,’ could, by himself, 
have accomplished the task of screening and interviewing candidates in a closed session, entirely 
free from the requirements of the open meeting law. This was his independent and exclusive 
statutory responsibility, . . . and the selection committee was assembled merely to assist him in 
carrying out his responsibility.” Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235-36. The same standard was later 
applied in a case in which the Governor created an advisory panel to advise him on a decision 
that he had the ultimate authority to make by himself. See Lambert v. Exec. Dir, of Judicial 
Nominating Council, 425 Mass. 406, 409(1997). 
 
Here we find that the Pier Manager had sole authority to review and make decisions 
regarding dockage use applications. In the request for further review, Attorney Henchy asserts 
that the Pier Manager “has no authority whatsoever to deny applications for annual commercial 
dockage at MacMillan Pier.” In support of this assertion, Attorney Henchy, citing General Laws 
chapter 91, section 10C, states that only “the Harbormaster[,] or whomever the municipality has 
so empowered,” has the authority to deny dockage use applications, and asserts that the “Town 
of Provincetown, by its Harbor Regulations, has made the Pier Corporation, not its staff, the 
authority empowered to determine annual commercial dockage at MacMillan Pier.” (Emphasis in 
original).6 Based on our review, we disagree that only the Corporation acting through the Board, 
and not Corporation staff, may deny a dockage use application. Here, the Pier Manager, as part 
of his duties as an employee of the Corporation, had authority to review dockage use applications 
and to determine whether an application should be approved, denied, or reclassified. Although a 
decision by the Pier Manager to deny a permit or reclassify an applicant may be appealed to the 
Board, the Pier Manager has full authority to make the initial determination, and does not require 
approval from the Board for those initial determinations. Therefore, we find that the Committee, 
created by the Pier Manager to advise him on a task he could have accomplished by himself 
entirely free from the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, falls within the Connelly 
exception and is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.7  
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which 
may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
6 The complaint suggests that the Committee also made changes to the application criteria for the 2020 season. After 
reviewing the materials provided to our office, as well as recordings of several Board meetings, we find no evidence 
that the Committee deliberated regarding changes to the application criteria, only that the Committee assisted the 
Pier Manager in reviewing the applications received. Because we find no evidence that the Committee deliberated 
regarding changes to the criteria for dockage use applications, we do not address whether this topic falls within the 
Pier Manager’s authority.   
7 Although we do not find a violation here, we caution the Board that subcommittees it creates are public bodies in 
their own right and are fully subject to the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: William Henchy, Esq. (via email:   
Regina Binder, Chair of the Board of Directors of the Provincetown Public Pier 
Corporation (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
