===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2018 
OML 2018-118 
Shannon D. Resnick 
Clark, Balboni & Gildea, LLP 
1037 Pleasant Street 
Bridgewater, MA 02324 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Resnick: 
This office received a complaint from Tony Branch, dated May 30, alleging that the 
Brockton City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on March 27, and the Council responded by 
letter dated April 12. In his complaint, Mr. Branch alleges that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating as a quorum in order to obstruct the agenda of the Brockton 
Diversity Commission (the "Commission") at a March 1 Commission meeting. In addition, he 
alleges that the Board improperly deliberated by text message regarding the Gilbert Walker Park 
Playground "during the week of February 11." 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating through a text message chain initiated on February 18. However, we find that the 
Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the March 1 Commission meeting. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's response, and the 
request for further review. We spoke to Mr. Branch by telephone on June 11, and we 
communicated with the Council's legal counsel by telephone on June 26, and by e-mail on June 
22, and July 2 and 27.2 In addition we reviewed a recording of a portion of the March 1 
meeting.3 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is an eleven-member public body, thus six 
members constitute a quorum. On February 18, eight councilors received a group text message 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 The recording in question was created by a reporter for the Brockton Enterprise News. It can be found at 
https;//www.youtube.com/watch?v=ysdv4N 1 IefQ&t=l 722s. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
from Mr, Jacob Tagger, a member of the public, regarding the Gilbert Walker Park Playground.4 
The text message consisted of a headline and photograph, published in a local paper, which 
concerned the park. Mr. Tagger urged the councilors to keep the article in mind at an upcoming 
meeting. Mr. Tagger is not a member of the Council. Five of the councilors included in the 
group text responded to the message.5 One member gave the "thumbs up" emoji, while another 
wrote "I agree." A third member made a statement about what he had heard from the city 
planner relative to the field design, and a fourth member commented on the article itself. A fifth 
member inquired whether another Council member Shirley Asack, had taken a position on the 
issue; a councilor responded to this question by stating that it would be addressed at an upcoming 
meeting. These text messages were never acknowledged during any subsequent Council 
meetings. 
Separately, on March 1, the Commission, of which Mr. Branch is the chair, held a 
meeting to discuss comments made by Council member Anne Beauregard concerning the 
Brockton Cable Advisory Board. In advance of this meeting of the Commission, Council 
member Winthrop Farwell posted on Facebook that he planned on attending the meeting. No 
councilors commented on this Facebook posting. Four councilors attended the March 1 meeting, 
and a dispute ensued between the councilors and Mr. Branch. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Commission 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21, The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id, For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id 
The complaint alleges that the Council improperly deliberated over text message about 
the Gilbert Walker Park Playground. A quorum of the Council was included in the group text 
message initiated by Mr. Tagger on February 18, and five councilors expressed opinions on or 
otherwise indicated support for a proposal made by a member of the public. Because these 
comments reached a quorum of the Council outside of a noticed meeting, we find that the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the complaint.6 
4 Mr. Tagger is also a member of the Brockton Diversity Commission. 
5 The Council's legal counsel told our office that several of those who were included in the group message attempted 
to leave the group in order to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law but were unable to do so. 
6 The Council's response argued that the allegation concerning the group text message is untimely because more 
than 30 days have passed since the week of February 11. However, the Council's legal counsel stated to our office 
that the text message chain was never made public. Therefore, the violation was only reasonably discoverable by 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that a quorum of the Council improperly deliberated for the 
purpose of coordinating attendance at and strategy to undermine the March 1 Commission 
meeting. Following an investigation that included conversations with each of the councilors, the 
Council's legal counsel told our office that the councilors did not coordinate or discuss their 
attendance at the Commission meeting. Rather, the councilors attended based on shared interest 
in the Commission's discussion of Ms. Beauregard's comments. As the complainant has 
provided no evidence to rebut this assertion, we credit the Council in this regard. See OML 
2016-141 (absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of events).7 
Accordingly, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
March 1 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the text message chain about the Gilbert Walker Park Playground by deliberating as a 
quorum outside of a properly noticed meeting. However, we find no violation with respect to the 
March 1 Commission meeting. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance, and we 
caution the Board that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intentional 
violation of the law. In addition, we order the public release of the electronic communications 
addressed in this letter. In the event that no councilor has retained those communications, we 
order the Board to release a copy of its legal counsel's July 26 e-mail to our office during an 
open session. Remedial action must occur within thirty (30) days of receipt of this meeting, and 
the Council must notify our office of compliance in writing, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4). 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tony Branch 
Brockton City Council 
Mr. Branch when he initiated his investigation into the Council's activities before preparing this complaint. See 940 
CMR 29.05(4). 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 