===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
   March 24, 2020               OML 2020 – 41     Cynthia Amara, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 Quincy, MA 02169  By email only: camara@mhtl.com   RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Amara:  This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on November 9, 2018, alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,  §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 1, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 18.2  The complaint alleges that two topics listed on the notice for the Committee’s September 4 meeting were insufficiently detailed, and that the September 4 meeting minutes failed to list two documents that were used during that meeting.  Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list in the minutes two documents that were used during the September 4 meeting.  We find that the Committee did not violate the law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee’s September 4 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3                                                     1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 2 The parties agreed to engage in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9) but the attempts at mediation concluded unsuccessfully in March 2020.   3 The video recording of the September 4 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ok64rRCgutk. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS  We find the facts as follows.   The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on Monday, September 4 at 7:00 P.M.4  The notice listed the following topics: Reorganization of the School Committee, Public Input, Approval of Minutes, New Business, Old Business, Superintendent’s Report to the Committee, and Future Agenda Items.  Most of these topic headings included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed.  Specifically, New Business included a subheading for “Meeting guidelines/ procedures,” “Staffing Update” and “Summer building project update,” while Superintendent’s Report to the Committee included a subheading for “Informational Items.”     The September 4 meeting was held as planned.  First, the Committee reorganized and heard from two individuals during Public Input.  Committee member Jessica Reilly then discussed general guidelines for attending Committee meetings and public participation.  She handed out a document to Committee members and those in attendance explaining the guidelines.    Superintendent Jeffrey Marsden discussed staffing changes for the new school year, noting that Chris Martes was hired as Interim Director of Curriculum, Mary Bruhl was hired as Director of Student Services, and that there was a pending offer for a Facility Manager.  As part of its meeting packet, the Committee received a document reflecting the changes in teachers at all Medfield schools for the 2018-2019 school year.  One of the changes reflected in this document was the creation of a new nursing position at the Blake Middle School.  The three positions specifically mentioned by Superintendent Marsden - Interim Director of Curriculum, Director of Student Services, and Facility Manager - were not listed in the document provided to the Committee.  The Committee briefly discussed the Interim Director of Curriculum position, asked when a full time Director would be hired and invited Ms. Bruhl to a Committee meeting.  The Committee did not discuss the new nursing position.    Michael LaFrancesca, Director of Finance and Operations, then updated the Committee on the various projects that were completed over the summer at each school and provided a document to the Committee listing those various projects.  The Committee then reviewed the high school handbook and unanimously approved it, reviewed the homework policy, and approved three monetary donations.  During Superintendent’s Report, Superintendent Mardsen updated the Committee on the Dale Street project.  He then noted the “informational items” in the Committee’s meeting packet including his involvement with the Police Chief Search Committee, the success of the High School Senior cruise event, and the agreement with Apptegy.com for the creation of a Medfield Schools app to share messages and alerts.                                                     4 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law regulations require that the date and time that a notice is posted be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(d).  
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION  I. The September 4 Meeting Notice Was Sufficiently Detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.5    The complaint alleges that two topics, Staffing Update and Informational Items, on the September 4 meeting notice lacked sufficient detail.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the hiring of a School Nurse and Interim Director of Curriculum “should have been specifically noted on the agenda” under the Staffing Update topic where these positions were “especially important” and not routine.  Moreover, the complaint suggests that the nursing position should have been separately listed on the notice because G.L. c. 71, § 53, requires that the Committee hire school nurses.  The complaint also alleges that the notice should have separately listed the Apptegy discussion under the subheading topic of “Informational Items” within Superintendent’s Report where the app is a “public relations tool” and Committee policy dictates that “it was the Committee’s responsibility to review and approve the Apptegy agreement.”    First, the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Open Meeting Law does not govern the Committee’s obligation to comply with G.L. c. 71, § 53, or its own policy.  Because our review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review and offer no opinion on allegations that the Committee violated other laws or its own policy.    Second, while we agree that the “Staffing Update” topic listed on the September 4 meeting notice did not include the specific staffing positions mentioned by the Superintendent during the meeting, we find that the topic as listed sufficiently identified the discussions that occurred.  During this portion of the meeting, Superintendent Marsden updated the Committee on the changes to school staff for the upcoming school year.  We note that the Committee did not discuss the nursing position and therefore was not required to separately identify that topic on the notice.  See OML 2016-76 (“where a public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice”).  Finally, we find that the “Informational Items” topic was also sufficiently detailed where the Superintendent simply informed the Committee of various projects and activities that had occurred at the schools, including an agreement with Apptegy.com for the creation of a Medfield Schools app.                                                   5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website; www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2015-73; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  In addition, we note that, in the past, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or presentation by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had.  Nonetheless, we have encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Superintendent and include on the meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed.  See OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.  The Committee did that here as the notice listed two specific topics under Superintendent’s Report.  Therefore, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the September 4 meeting notice.   II.  The September 4 Meeting Minutes Do Not List Two Documents That Were  Used at that Meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).    The complaint alleges that the September 4 meeting minutes do not include two documents that were used during the meeting.  Although the September 4 minutes do contain a list of documents used at the meeting, we agree that that list does not include two documents: the document shared by Committee Member Reilly regarding the guidelines for attendance and public participation at meetings and the document distributed by Mr. LaFrancesca regarding the school projects completed over the summer.  The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  Here, both documents were physically present, verbally identified, and their contents were discussed during the September 4 meeting; yet, neither document was listed in the meeting minutes  Although we acknowledge that these two documents were referenced in the body of the minutes, the Open Meeting Law requires that the minutes of a public body’s meeting include a list of all documents and exhibits used by the public body during the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-91.  Where the September 4 meeting minutes did not contain these two documents in its list of documents used, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  We order the Committee to revise its September 4 minutes to list these two documents used at the meeting.  Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
===PAGE 5===
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Although in a determination issued on April 16, 2019, which found 
no Open Meeting Law violations, the Committee was advised by the Attorney General that the 
Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes contain a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting, the minutes at issue here were created and approved prior to issuance of that 
determination.  See OML 2019-28.  We also find no evidence that the Committee acted with 
deliberate ignorance of the law.  Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting by 
failing to list in its minutes two documents that were used during the September 4 meeting.  We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  We order the 
Committee to revise the September 4 meeting minutes within thirty (30) days of receipt of this 
letter.6   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Christine McCue Potts – By email only:  
 Medfield School Committee – By email only: scchair@email.medfield.net 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
                                                
6 The Committee must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order to revise its meeting 
minutes within 30 days of receipt of this letter.  See 940 CMR 29.07(4). 
