===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
October 23, 2012 
OML 2012 —104 
Michael P. McCarron, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
381 Main St. 
West Newbury, MA 01985 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McCarron: 
Our office received a complaint filed by Mr. Thomas Atwood, dated December 7, 2011, 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the West Newbury 
Board of Selectmen (the "Board"). The complaint alleges that the Board "has failed, and 
continues to fail to release the Melanson Heath internal control review report," and that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering executive session during its October 5, 2011 
meeting "to discuss 'audit' under MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21(a)7 in order to comply with 
MGL, Chapter 4, Section 7, paragraph 26(d)." The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about November 3, 2011. We received the Board's response to that complaint in a 
letter dated January 11, 2012.1  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting 
in executive session on October 5, 2011 to discuss a report that should have been discussed in 
open session. We note that the Board released the Independent Accountant's Report on 
Applying Agreed-Upon Procedures (the "Melanson Report") after the complaint was filed. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the November 3, 2011 complaint; the Board's January 
11, 2012 response; and the December 7, 2011 complaint. We also reviewed the notice for and 
executive session minutes of the Board's October 5, 2011 meeting. Finally, we reviewed the 
Melanson Report. 
1  We remind the Board of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days of 
receipt of a complaint, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The West Newbury Board of Selectmen met in executive session on October 5, 2011. 
The Board cited several executive session purposes at the time it voted to enter executive 
session. These included discussion of strategy with respect to pending litigation and approval of 
executive session minutes. The Board also entered into executive session under G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(7), stating that it was doing so in order to comply with the provisions of the Public 
Records Law, G.L. c. 4 § 7, cl. 26(d). During that portion of the executive session, the Board 
discussed a draft of the Melanson Report, created by the accounting firm Melanson Heath & 
Company. The report, whose authors dispute that it was an "audit," examined potential 
municipal payroll discrepancies, personnel reimbursements, and vendor contracts, and 
recommended changes. The Board voted to publicly release the Melanson Report during its 
November 9, 2011 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The issue raised by this complaint is whether it is appropriate for a public body that 
wishes to discuss a draft report to cite exemption 26(d) in the Public Records Law as the basis 
for an executive session under Purpose 7. A public body may enter executive—or closed—
session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session Purpose 7 
allows a public body to enter executive session to "comply with, or act under the authority of, 
any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). The 
Public Records Law defines a public record as "all books, papers, maps, photographs, recorded 
tapes, financial statements, statistical tabulations, or other documentary materials or data, 
regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by any officer or employee of 
any agency, executive office, department, board, commission, bureau, division or authority of the 
commonwealth, or of any political subdivision thereof, or of any authority established by the 
general court to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26. Copies of public records must be 
provided in response to a request, unless the material falls within an exemption. Id. One 
exemption covers "inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letters relating to policy positions 
being developed by the agency." G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(d). However, this permissive exemption 
contains a limitation: "this subclause shall not apply to reasonably completed factual studies or 
reports on which the development of such policy positions has been or may be based." G.L. c. 4, 
§ 7, cl. 26(d). 
The Board argues that the Public Records Law "details those incidents where release of 
documents to the public can be prohibited," and that the "Melanson Heath Report was to be used 
to formulate internal financial controls to prevent repetition of the errors that had been made in 
this regard." The complainant argues that the Board should not have used the Public Records 
Law exemption it cited because, at the time the Board considered the Melanson Report on 
October 5, 2011, the report was essentially complete and it no longer represented "policy 
positions being developed." G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(d). 
The Board should have discussed the Melanson Report in open session, even in its draft 
form, because there was no legal purpose that permitted the Board to discuss the report in 
executive session. Purpose 7 allows a public body to enter executive session to "comply with, or 
act under the authority of, any general or special law." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). Public Records 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Law Exemption 26(d) allows a governmental entity or official to withhold from public disclosure 
documents "relating to policy positions being developed by the agency." G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(d). 
But that permissive exemption from disclosure does not mandate the type of confidentiality 
required to authorize executive session under Purpose 7. 
The Public Records Law Exemption 26(d) is a permissive exemption that allows the 
agency to choose to withhold a document upon receipt of a public records request. However, a 
public body cannot prospectively use the exemption to discuss a policy decision that, but for the 
existence of a document that could be protected, they could not discuss in executive session. To 
allow such a reading of the law would permit public bodies to discuss any policy decision behind 
closed doors so long as they are developing a written document alongside their deliberation. 
Such an exemption would swallow the rule that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to 
the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
To use Purpose 7, a public body must enter executive session to comply with a specific 
law, or act under the authority of a law, that requires confidentiality. A public body may enter 
executive session under Purpose 7 to "act under the authority" of the Public Records Law if, for 
example, it is discussing whether to release a document it has lawfully withheld, considering a 
document that state law requires to be kept confidential, or discussing information contained in a 
document that would infringe on an individual's right to privacy if revealed publicly. See OML 
2012-12, OML 2011-54; OML 2011-53; see, e.g.  OML 2011-53 (finding that a public body 
could enter executive session under Purpose 7 and cite the Public Records Law or Right to 
Privacy Law to discuss an individual's medical reimbursement because a public discussion 
would have violated that individual's statutorily protected right to privacy). 1  None of those 
circumstances were present here. Therefore, the Board should have discussed the Melanson 
Report in open session.2  
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting in executive session for an improper purpose. We understand that the Melanson Report 
has been publicly released. Therefore, we order only immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and offer this letter as future guidance. We now consider this complaint 
resolved and this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions or believe any of 
the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviagolopenmeeting.  2Moreover, the Board did not draft the Melanson Report, and therefore could not claim that it entered executive 
session to draft a document protected by the Public Records Law. In District Attorney for the Northern District v.  
School Committee of Wayland,  455 Mass. 561 (2009), the Supreme Judicial Court held that a public body could 
enter executive session under Purpose 7 and cite the Public Records Law in order to create an employee evaluation 
that was protected from public disclosure as a personnel record. (Note, however, that under the current Open 
Meeting Law an employee evaluation created by a public body is a public record, and no longer exempt from public 
disclosure. G.L. c. 30A, §22(e)). However, because the Open Meeting Law required the public body to conduct a 
discussion in open session, the Court found that the public body could enter executive session only once the public 
body had "reached the state of deliberations where the preparation and drafting of the written performance 
evaluation was imminent." Id. at 569. Here, the Board made no attempt to hold a discussion in open session, nor 
was it the entity drafting the Melanson Report. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sc rsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Thomas Atwood 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 