===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       March 24, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 34 
 
 
James Donnelly, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park  
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
By email only: jdonnelly@mhtl.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Donnelly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 2, 2025, alleging that 
the Marshfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on December 2, 2024, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated December 20, 
2024.  The complaint alleges that the Committee posted a notice with insufficient specificity for 
a meeting held on December 3, 2024, by failing to describe documents that corresponded with 
several topics listed on the notice.1   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
 
1 The complaint further alleged that the Committee failed to timely approve minutes of a meeting held on September 
24, 2024, and created insufficient minutes of and convened in executive session for an improper purpose during a 
meeting held on October 8, 2024.  Mr. Higgins did not request further review with respect to these allegations and 
we, therefore, do not review them.  Although we do not review these allegations, we take this opportunity to remind 
the Committee that when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful 
purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2018-139; OML 2016-43; OML 2015-87.  The bargaining units must be identified 
on the meeting notice and must be referenced in conjunction with the vote to enter executive session.  See OML 
2023-207; 2020-30; OML 2013-97.  Moreover, a public body may approve a collective bargaining agreement in 
executive session under Purpose 3 if the chair makes the required declaration that an open meeting would have a 
detrimental effect on the body’s bargaining position.  See OML 2021-145; OML 2015-52; OML 2013-84.    
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Committee 
meeting held on December 3, 2024.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On November 26, 2024, at 3:52 P.M., the Committee 
posted notice of a meeting to be held on December 3, 2024, at 6:30 P.M.  The notice listed eight 
topics; two main topic headings included “Minutes” and “New Business.”  Two meeting dates 
were listed under “Minutes” and seven specific item descriptions were listed under “New 
Business” that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed.  Five of the sub-headings 
listed under “New Business”  appeared on the notice as follows:   
 
Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) 
Intended Outcome: Mrs. Marybeth Battis will present a brief overview of this  
year’s data 
Preparation: Review Documentation 
 
School Committee Policies 
Intended Outcome: Vote on amended AI Policy for students and Social Media  
Policy in Staff Handbook 
Preparation: Review Documentation 
 
Elementary Handbook Update 
Intended Outcome: School Committee will review an overview and vote on the  
revised Elementary Handbook 
Preparation: Review enclosed materials 
 
Elementary School Improvement Plans 
Intended Outcome: Principals from each elementary school will review school  
improvement plans for the School Committee 
Preparation: Review enclosed materials 
 
Superintendent Student Advisory Council (SSAC)  
Intended Outcome: Superintendent Sullivan will present a brief overview of this 
new council 
Preparation: Review Documentation 
 
The documentation or materials were not posted with or attached to the notice.   
 
The December 3, 2024, meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the 
Committee approved minutes of meetings held on September 24 and November 19, 2024.  The 
Committee listened to a presentation from Health Coordinator Marybeth Battis about the Youth 
 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on December 3, 2024, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mGdZUnTrQyo&list=PLN1bqMhmefvVsXWSETU-
BdEIZPeTCZAzD&index=13. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Risk Behavior Survey, which was taken by students in grades 7, 9, and 11.  Ms. Battis reported 
on students’ mental health and stress, as well as the use of vaping, marijuana and alcohol use, 
noting that trends show vape and marijuana use decreasing.  The Superintendent discussed 
certain changes to the elementary school handbook and the elementary school improvement 
plans; both the handbook and improvement plans were included in the Committee’s meeting 
packet.  The Committee heard from principals of the town’s five elementary schools who 
highlighted four specific goals for improving each of the schools.  The Committee unanimously 
voted to approve the changes to the elementary school handbook and unanimously voted to 
accept the elementary school improvement plans.  The Superintendent then spoke about the work 
of the policy subcommittee to create an Artificial Intelligence and Academic Honesty policy and 
to amend the social media policy for staff; these policies were also included in the Committee’s 
meeting packet.  The Committee unanimously voted to approve the Artificial Intelligence and 
Academic Honesty policy, as well as the staff social media policy.  Finally, the Superintendent 
described his first meeting with the Superintendent Student Advisory Council and invited 
Committee members to attend.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.3  The Open Meeting Law does 
not require that a public body attach supporting documents to a meeting notice or that it publicly 
post a “meeting packet” that contains such documents.  See OML 2022-24; OML 2022-19; OML 
2021-181.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee posted a notice with insufficient specificity by 
failing to describe the documents or materials that the Committee intended to review under five 
of the sub-headings listed under “New Business.”  We acknowledge that the five sub-headings - 
Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, School Committee Policies, Elementary Handbook 
Update, Elementary School Improvement Plans, and Superintendent Student Advisory Council -
each included language indicating that the Committee would “Review Documentation” or 
“Review enclosed materials,” but that the notice did not specifically identify those documents or 
materials.  We have previously stated that the meeting notice itself must contain all information 
that the Open Meeting Law requires; posting attachments does not cure an otherwise defective 
notice.  See OML 2021-138; OML 2021-57; OML 2019-22.  However, a public body need not 
list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements.  See 
OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.  Here, the reference on the notice to reviewing 
documentation or materials appears to be part of a note about preparing for the meeting, rather 
than a topic description.  In fact, during the December 3, 2024, meeting, the Committee received 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
updates on various policies, handbooks and plans from the Superintendent who advised that the 
materials had been included in the members’ meeting packet.  We find that the five sub-heading 
topics listed on the December 3, 2024, meeting notice included sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed during the meeting.   
 
Moreover, we note that the Committee was not required to include attachments pertaining 
to any of the listed topics, and there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public 
body affirmatively provide copies of documents to persons in attendance at a meeting.  But see 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days); G.L. c. 66, § 10 
(Public Records Law requires public body to permit inspection or provide copy of any public 
record, such as documents used during a meeting, within 10 business days of request).  We 
encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of 
documents they intend to discuss.  Particularly where viewing such documents would be helpful 
to following the conversation during the meeting, providing copies of documents that the 
Committee intends to discuss promotes transparency and public access to government 
deliberations.  See OML 2016-94. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Marshfield School Committee c/o Superintendent Patrick Sullivan – By email only: 
psullivan@mpsd.org 
Marshfield Town Clerk Narice Casper – By email only: ncasper@townofmarshfield.org  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
