===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 93 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Zaheer A. Samee, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
zsamee@CITYOFMALDEN.ORG  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Samee: 
 
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey on November 30, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about September 12, and 
you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated October 31. The complaint alleges that 
the Council improperly deliberated at a September 8 community meeting, and thereby violated 
the Open Meeting Law in a number of ways. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the September 8 
community meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Council is an eleven-member public body; 
therefore, six members constitute a quorum. An event scheduled for September 8 and titled 
“Roosevelt Park Improvement Project Community Meeting” (the “Community Meeting”) was 
posted to the calendar page of the Malden City website. The event was described as follows: 
“[t]he purpose of the community meeting is to engage and inform the community about the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the September 8 community meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvfAYTdChxk. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
project, to receive feedback, and to address questions or concerns about the project, including 
about environmental issues.”  
 
The Community Meeting was held on September 8 in a hybrid fashion with the public 
attending in the Council Chamber room at City Hall and on Zoom. Seated at the dais in the 
Council Chamber room was a panel consisting of a facilitator, two members of the Recreation 
Department, the Athletics Director for Malden High School, the Communications Director for 
the City, the Deputy Director of Housing and Community Development, the Director of Strategic 
Planning and Community Development, and four representatives from various firms working on 
the Roosevelt Park improvement project. The Councilors in attendance sat in the audience with 
the rest of the public or attended via Zoom.  
 
The Community Meeting began with the facilitator explaining that, among other rules, 
each person who wished to speak would be given two minutes to do so. Thereafter, the Mayor 
made welcoming remarks, members of the panel introduced themselves, and the panel presented 
information and comments regarding the proposed plan for Roosevelt Park. After the panel made 
its initial presentation, the floor was opened to members of the public who wished to speak. 
Members of the public, including Councilors, were called on in the order in which they signed up 
to speak. There were several rounds of public comment, with the facilitator calling first on 
individuals at the physical location followed by comments and questions submitted by those 
attending via Zoom being read aloud.  
 
With respect to the Councilors in attendance, four spoke in person—Karen Colón Hayes, 
Ryan O’Malley, Chris Simonelli, and Stephen Winslow—and one provided comment via 
Zoom—Council President Craig Spadafora. Each Councilor was called on in the order in which 
they signed up to speak, as were all other members of the public. Each Councilor who spoke in 
person was called on by their name with no initial reference to their position as a Councilor. On 
two occasions the facilitator mentioned a Councilor’s position in passing, and Councilor 
Spadafora’s comment was introducing as being from the Council President. Although the 
Councilors tended to go over the two-minute limit for individual comment, the facilitator, in 
general, enforced the time limit against the Councilors in the same manner as against other 
members of the public. Indeed, at one point the facilitator cut off the microphone and invited the 
next speaker up when Councilor Simonelli would not stop speaking after being warned that he 
was past the two-minute limit.   
 
Each Councilor who spoke in person introduced themselves as a councilor and each 
turned the microphone around so that they were addressing the audience rather than the panel. In 
their comments, the Councilors provided history of Roosevelt Park, history of the improvement 
project (including some Councilors praising other Councilors for their work on the project), their 
concerns about the project, and their opinions regarding what should be done with the project 
and the park.  
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to me
mbers of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The definition of “meeting” 
includes several exceptions, including attendance by a quorum of a public body at 1) “a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so 
long as the members do not deliberate”; and 2) “a meeting of another public body that has 
complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.” Id. The Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral 
or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  
 
The Ope
n Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the 
general public. See OML 2020-139.3 The Open Meeting Law restricts communication between 
or among a quorum of a public body outside of a properly noticed meeting. Therefore, the 
communicator’s intent in communicating is significant and must be examined. See OML 2021-
66 (comments made by a public body member to a member of the public explaining the public 
body member’s reasoning and concerns did not constitute deliberation); OML 2020-139 (a 
public body member’s comments regarding public body business that were posted to a large 
Facebook group were clearly directed to members of the public and therefore did not constitute 
deliberation); see also OML 2020-19.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Council improperly deliberated at the Community Meeting 
because more than a quorum of the Council was present and several Councilors shared their 
thoughts and opinions regarding the proposed improvement plan for Roosevelt Park, a subject 
the complaint asserts is within the Council’s jurisdiction. The Council does not deny that a 
quorum of the Council attended the Community Meeting or that the subjects discussed were 
within the Council’s jurisdiction. Rather, the Council asserts that 1) the Councilors’ attendance at 
the Community Meeting fell within the exception to the definition of “meeting” for attendance at 
a meeting of another public body; 2) the Councilors participated “only by open participation in 
the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body”; and 3) the Councilors’ 
comments did not constitute deliberation because they were directed to the public at large.  
 
After reviewing the video recording of the Community Meeting, we find that the 
Councilors did not deliberate during the Community Meeting, and, therefore, the Council did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. The facts that support this conclusion include that the panel 
allowed for extensive public comment during the Community Meeting, and that the Councilors 
who spoke did so in the same manner as other members of the public. The Councilors did not 
receive any special treatment: they waited to be called on, they were called on in the order in 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
which they signed up, and they were subject to the two-minute limit f or public comment. 
Additionally, although the Councilors identified themselves as Councilors their comments 
expressed their personal views on the issue under consideration by the panel and were directed to 
the public and the panel, not to each other. See OML 2021-171. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Craig Spadafora, President, Malden City Council ( via email: 
cspadafora@cityofmalden.org) 
 Malden City Council (via email: citycouncil@cityofmalden.org) 
 Carol Ann Desiderio, Malden City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org )  
Brian DeLacey (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
