===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
June 22, 2017 
OML 2017-105 
William G. Keegan, Jr. 
Town Manager 
40 South Street 
Foxborough, MA 02035 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Keegan; 
This office received a complaint from Patricia Tisdale on March 7 alleging that 
the Foxborough Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 4, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 24. The complaint alleges that 
the Board's October 17, 2016 open session meeting minutes are not sufficiently detailed. 
Following our review, we find that the minutes do not comply with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the open sessions minutes from 
Board meetings held on October 17, 2016 and December 5, 2016; as well as Ms. 
Tisdale's summary for the October 17, 2016 minutes. Finally, we spoke with you by 
telephone on June 13. 
FACTS 
The complainant was the Public Health Administrator for the Foxborough Health 
Department for approximately two years. She was dismissed from her position in the 
Health Department in March 2017. 
On October 17, 2016, Health Director Pauline Zajdel told the complainant that 
she did not need to attend the Board meeting that evening because the agenda was light 
Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
so Ms. Zajdel would record the meeting minutes. The complainant attended the meeting, 
however. Consequently, the Board engaged her in discussion regarding her presence at 
meetings. Several Board members suggested that the complainant follow the directives 
of the Health Director in determining whether to attend Board meetings and the 
complainant expressed her confusion with conflicting directives. The Board approved 
the October 17 meeting minutes on December 5, 2016. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the October 17, 2016 meeting minutes are inaccurate. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.2 By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that 
a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include 
a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55. 
Here, the minutes of the Board's October 17 meeting state that the Health 
Director told the complainant she did not need to attend the Board meeting that evening 
because of the light agenda. The minutes then indicate that a "discussion took place" 
with the complainant. Not included in the minutes are any detail of the discussion, which 
included several Board members suggesting that the complainant follow the directives of 
the Health Director in determining whether to attend Board meetings and the complainant 
expressing her confusion with conflicting directives. The Board should provide 
additional detail in its minutes regarding that discussion. While it is not necessary to 
record the comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so 
where there are speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual 
speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, 
that person and his or her comments should be identified in the minutes. See OML 2014-
108; OML 2013-47; OML 2012-29. 
For the reasons stated above, we order the Board to revise its October 17, 2016 
minutes to reflect a summary of the discussion that occurred with the complainant, with 
sufficient detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board's October 17, 2016 meeting minutes do not comply with 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law in that they fail to include sufficient detail 
and order the Board to revise those meeting minutes within thirty (30) days of the date of 
this letter. We also order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patricia Tisdale 
Foxborough Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
3 