===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 162 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Chair Kevin Moore 
Brimfield Zoning Board of Appeals 
kevinsellsmoore@gmail.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Chair Moore: 
 
This office received two complaints from Christopher Harry alleging that the Brimfield 
Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The first complaint was filed with the Board on or about January 3, 2022,
1 and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated January 24. The second complaint was filed with the Board on 
or about January 29, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 9. In the 
first complaint, Mr. Harry alleges that a quorum of the Board improperly deliberated outside of 
an open meeting.
2 In the second complaint, Mr. Harry alleges that during the January 7 Board 
meeting, the Board discussed Mr. Harry’s character and reputation during open session instead 
of executive session, and that the Board failed to provide Mr. Harry with individual notice that 
he would be discussed.
3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a 
quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting on December 16, 2021. 
We find that the Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
 
1 All dates are in 2022 unless otherwise noted. 
2 The first complaint also alleges that during the December 16, 2021, Board meeting, Chair Moore slandered Board 
Member Paul Vandal. Even if true, this would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we do 
not review, and do not opine as to, whether Chair Moore slandered Member Vandal. See  OML Declination 11-19-21 
(Mashpee Planning Board) (“[A]lthough we certainly discourage uncivil and unprofessional behavior, an allegation 
of unprofessional conduct or incivility does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.”).  
3 Mr. Harry raised additional allegations in his request for review. We decline to review these additional allegations 
as they were not first raised in a complaint filed with the Board. Potential violations discovered after a complaint has 
been filed with a public body should be alleged in a subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the 
public body an opportunity to investigate and take appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional 
allegations. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses, and the 
complainant’s requests for further review. We also reviewed the notices, minutes, and video 
recordings of the Board’s December 16, 2021, and January 7 meetings.4 Finally, we also spoke 
with Chair Moore over the phone.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board has three voting members and one non-voting 
member. Because non-voting members do not count for the purpose of measuring a quorum, the 
Board’s quorum is two members. On December 16, 2021, the Board held a meeting at which it 
discussed revised survey plans for a garage that Member Vandal was proposing to build on his 
property. During the discussion, Chair Moore made a motion to table discussion of the revised 
survey plans to allow time to determine whether the Board could approve the new plans without 
a public hearing. After Chair Moore made the motion, Member Vandal told the Board to “forget 
about it” and to “take [his] resignation.” Member Vandal then left the meeting. After Member 
Vandal left the meeting, Chair Moore said “that’s the only reason he was here then” before 
telling Member Fitzgerald “guess what, you just got promoted.” Member Fagerstrom asked 
Chair Moore why Member Vandal was “so worked up,” and Chair Moore responded, “I’ll tell 
you why . . . when we’re off record.”  
 
After the meeting concluded, Chair Moore and Member Fagerstrom held a private 
discussion. During this conversation, they discussed personal matters involving Member Vandal. 
Additionally, Chair Moore told Member Fagerstrom that he would not accept Member Vandal’s 
resignation because Member Vandal had been “hotheaded” when he announced his resignation.  
 
On or about January 3, Mr. Harry submitted the first Open Meeting Law complaint to the 
Board. On January 7, the Board met and discussed, in open session, the first complaint. During 
this discussion, Chair Moore described Mr. Harry’s Open Meeting Law complaint as an “attack” 
and said that Mr. Harry had “attacked [Chair Moore] on several occasions.” Mr. Harry 
subsequently filed the second Open Meeting Law complaint. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Board deliberated 
outside of a properly noticed public meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and that 
meetings be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .” Id. We 
 
4 A video recording of the Board’s December 16, 2021, meeting may be found at: 
https://brimfieldma.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=1c4c47bc-70e2-4138-a428-1e8cd6dde50f. A video recording of the 
Board’s January 7 meeting may be found at: https://brimfieldma.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=687fa10d- 4bd7-4788-
b6ba-30c3ee15716e. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
have determined that a topic falls outside the scope of a body’s jurisdiction where it does not 
involve the public body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration. See OML 
2018-1; OML 2022-37. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority 
of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2022-3.  
 
The Board concedes that Chair Moore and Member Fagerstrom met after the December 
16, 2021, meeting and had a private discussion. However, the Board asserts that Chair Moore 
and Member Fagerstrom did not violate the Open Meeting Law because they discussed topics 
outside of the Board’s jurisdiction. In our correspondence with Chair Moore, he explained that 
the majority of his discussion with Member Fagerstrom concerned personal matters. However, 
Chair Moore also conceded that during the discussion he told Member Fagerstrom that he would 
not accept Member Vandal’s resignation.  
 
Although the majority of Chair Moore and Member Fagerstrom’s conversation may have 
pertained to personal matters not within the Board’s jurisdiction, discussion of a public body’s 
operation is a matter within the body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2017-91; OML 2016-81. 
Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in a limited manner when 
Chair Moore told Member Fagerstrom, outside of noticed and open meeting, that he would not 
accept Member Vandal’s resignation.  
 
II. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing Mr. Harry’s 
reputation and character in open session, and the Board was not obligated to provide 
Mr. Harry with individual notice that he would be discussed.  
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing Mr. Harry’s reputation and character in open session on January 7 when discussing 
his Open Meeting Law complaint. Mr. Harry asserts that the Board should have discussed his 
reputation and character in executive session. Mr. Harry further asserts that the Board failed to 
provide him with individual notice that he would be discussed at the January 7 meeting.  
 
Although public bodies may enter executive session for one or more of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, the Law does not require public bodies to convene in 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A § 21(a). Therefore, even if the Board did discuss Mr. Harry’s 
reputation and character such that it could have lawfully convened in executive session pursuant 
to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”),
5 it would not have been required to do so. See OML 
2021-40; OML 2019-160; OML 2012-32.  
 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law only requires that public bodies provide individual 
notice when convening in executive session under Purpose 1. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Because 
the discussion at issue here occurred in open session, the Board was not required to provide Mr. 
Harry with individual notice that he would be discussed. See OML 2014-123. Accordingly, we 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the second complaint. 
 
5 Purpose 1 allows a public body to enter a closed executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. 
c. 30A § 21(a)(1).  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed public meeting. We find 
that the Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
      
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted By: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government. 
 
cc: Christopher Harry (via e-mail: ) 
Brimfield Zoning Board of Appeals (vi
 a e-mail: zba@brimfieldma.org) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
