===PAGE 1===
1 
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 174 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Brian Riley, Esq.  
KP | LAW  
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor  
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jill Normandin on January 13, 2021, alleging that 
the Westminster Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 24, 2020, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated December 9, 2020.1  In 
her complaint, Ms. Normandin alleges that the minutes of the Board’s October 13 meeting are 
inaccurate, both because they fail to adequately summarize the discussion surrounding a 
subdivision plan for Kiwi Court and because they fail to include a list of documents used .    
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the minutes from the Board’s 
October 13 meeting and an audio recording of the October 13 meeting.    
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See 
OML 2013-64; OML 2017-1047.2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 
2012-106.  Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-136; 2020-105.  With regard to the listing of 
documents, the Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a 
meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open 
meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; OML 
2012-42. 
 
Here, we find that the Board substantially complied with the requirement that it provide 
an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion that occurred during the October 
13 meeting regarding the subdivision plan for Kiwi Court.  After reviewing an audio recording of 
the October 13 meeting, we find that the minutes adequately capture the Town Planner’s 
presentation regarding the revised subdivision plan, the Board’s discussion that followed, and 
questions and comments from members of the public.  In particular, we find that the minutes 
sufficiently capture Ms. Normandin’s comments to the Board during the meeting.  See OML 
2019-136 (finding minutes sufficiently detailed with regard to a public comment portion of a 
meeting, where they summarized some of the remarks made by one speaker and did not reflect 
comments made by another speaker).  Although we acknowledge that the minutes could have 
been more detailed with regard to Ms. Normandin’s comments, we find that the level of detail 
Ms. Normandin requests is not required in order to understand the Board’s discussion. 
 
However, we find that the minutes of the October 13 meeting fail to include a list of 
documents used during the meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  From the audio 
recording of the meeting, it is evident that, at a minimum, a letter from the Conservation Agent 
regarding the subdivision plan which the Town Planner read during the meeting, as well as 
subdivision plans which the project applicant’s engineer apparently displayed and which were 
referenced in discussion and in response to questions, were documents used during the meeting.  
There also was reference in the discussion to a draft conditions of approval document, which 
may also have been used during the meeting; if so, that document must be listed as well.   
 
Finally, we note, as the complaint alleges, that the minutes state “J. Normandin submitted 
documents for review (attached),” yet no such documents were attached to the minutes.  First, 
although Ms. Normandin brought documents to the meeting, referenced them during her 
comments, and gave them to the Board, we do not find that the Board discussed the documents.3  
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 We offer no opinion on whether the documents, upon being received by the Board, became public records that 
must be retained in accordance with the applicable records retention schedule and provided in response to a public 
records request. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law does not require that documents used during a meeting and 
referenced in meeting minutes be appended to or stored with the minutes.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving minutes of the October 13 meeting that fail to include a list of documents used during 
the meeting.  We find that the minutes are accurate in other respects.  We order the Board, within 
60 days of receipt of this determination, to amend the minutes of the October 13 meeting to 
include a list of documents used during the meeting, and to certify to our office that it has done 
so. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jill Normandin (via e-mail: ) 
 Westminster Planning Board, c/o Town Planner Stephen Wallace (via e-mail: 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
