===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 7,2017 
OML 2017-124 
Michael Noonan, Chair 
Abington Conservation Commission 
500 Gliniewicz Way 
Abington, MA 02351 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Noonan: 
This office received a complaint from James Connolly on May 9 alleging that the 
Abington Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on March 28; and 
you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by email dated April 17. The complaint alleges 
that the Commission deliberated by email outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the open session minutes from the Commission's February 27, 
March 13, and March 27 meetings; as well as a March 1 email correspondence from you to six 
Commission members.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a seven-member public body with two 
alternates; thus four members constitute a quorum. The complainant, Mr. Connolly, is a member 
of the Commission. Mr. Connolly's neighbor filed a complaint against him for improperly 
storing firewood within bordering vegetated wetlands. 
During a February 27 meeting, the Commission discussed Mr. Connolly's request to 
withdraw a Request for Determination of Applicability that had been previously filed with the 
Commission pertaining to the storage of firewood within bordering vegetated wetlands. The 
MAURA HEALEY 
AT TORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
Commission considered whether the storage of firewood was in the buffer zone or in wetlands. 
Chair Noonan recommended that several Commission members conduct a site visit of the 
property and that the Department of Environmental Protection ("Department") be contacted. 
On March 1, Chair Noonan emailed the six Commission members, including Mr. 
Connolly, as well as Gregory DeCesare of the Department. The email acknowledged receipt of 
Mr. Connolly's request to withdraw a Request for Determination of Applicability and suggested 
that he hire a professional to determine whether the firewood was being stored within bordering 
vegetated wetlands. The email concluded by stating "We will be looking forward to the results 
of the findings from whoever you hire." At the end of the email was a sentence "to all board 
members" stating "I hope you agree with this email so we can have a finding on this land by a 
professional." 
During a March 13 meeting, the Commission recognized that four members had 
conducted a site visit of Mr. Connolly's property and then discussed whether firewood was 
stored in the buffer zone or in bordering vegetated wetlands. The March 1 email was disclosed 
during this meeting and listed in the meeting minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id. 
We find that the March 1 email sent by Chair Noonan to the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law because it constituted a communication between a quorum of the public 
body. Specifically, the email contained his opinion on a matter that had just been discussed by 
the Commission two days prior and was still pending before it; the email also hoped the 
Commission members agreed with him. The expression of an opinion of one public body 
member on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, 
even if no other public body member responds. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33.3 Thus, the email contained an improper deliberation which should not have occurred 
outside of a posted meeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www, mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating by email. We order immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We commend the Commission for releasing the March 1 email at its 
March 13 meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: James Connolly 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
J 