===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 21, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 30 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mary W. Gans 
Attorney At Law 
290 Shore Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Gans: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael McCarthy on December 12, 2024, 
alleging that the Falmouth Building Needs Task Force (the “Task Force”), violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Task Force 
on November 11, and you responded on behalf of the Falmouth School Committee and the Task 
Force by correspondence dated December 2.2  In his complaint, Mr. McCarthy alleges that the 
Task Force is in violation of the Open Meeting Law because (1) members did not certify receipt 
of Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks of qualification for office; (2) the Task Force 
did not comply with “relevant parts of Section 22 in reference to ‘documents and other 
exhibits;’” and (3) its formation should have been the subject of a vote of the Falmouth School 
Committee. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Task Force constitutes a public body and that it 
violated the Open Meeting Law when members failed to certify receipt of Open Meeting Law 
materials within two weeks of qualification for office.  We decline to review the remaining 
allegations of the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, 
the response of the Task Force and the Falmouth School Committee, and the complainant’s 
request for further review.  We also viewed a recording of a School Committee meeting which 
 
1 The Task Force was originally formed as the Building Needs Committee.  The complainant refers to the body by 
its original name.  The name of the group is not determinative of whether it is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 9-27-21 (Harvard School Committee); OML 2020-118; OML 2018-71.  Open 
Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
took place on September 24, and reviewed minutes of that meeting.3  We viewed a recording of a 
Special School Committee meeting, which took place on March 6, 2025.4  We reviewed agendas 
and notes relative to meetings of the Task Force, which were accessible via a link in the response 
to the complaint.  We reviewed a report of the New England School Development Council issued 
to Falmouth Public Schools on March 4, 2025.  We reviewed information on the Falmouth 
Public Schools website, including information regarding the Task Force and information within 
the Navigating the Future Together page.5  Finally, we viewed a recording of the October 7 
meeting of the Falmouth Selectboard.6        
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Task Force was created in the fall of 2024 to review 
building needs facing the Falmouth School District, consider five proposed plans to address 
those needs,7 elicit community feedback, and provide recommendations as to each of the five 
plans to the Falmouth School Committee (the “School Committee”).  A letter posted to the 
School District website on September 16 from School Committee Chair Kelly Welch and School 
Superintendent Lori Duerr explained that the School Committee and school administration had 
identified “challenges and opportunities related to the most effective use of our school buildings. 
. ..”  To address the challenges, the School Committee and the School Superintendent formed the 
Task Force.  “In partnership with the School Committee,” the school administration developed 
the proposed plans; the Task Force was to gather community input and present 
recommendations.  As explained on a page on the Falmouth Public School’s website, entitled 
“Navigating the Future Together,” the School Committee “is considering a series of 
recommendations related to the most effective use of our school buildings in the years ahead.”   
 
The Task Force is comprised of two School Committee members, Principal Alan Harris, 
the Town Manager, a member of the Falmouth Selectboard, three staff members, two community 
members, and three parents or guardians.  According to the School Committee website, the two 
School Committee members who are members of the Task Force act as liaisons to the School 
Committee.  Administrative support is provided by Superintendent Duerr and two other 
individuals.  The Task Force selected one of its members to act as chair.   
 
The Task Force first convened on September 25 and has met on at least four occasions 
since then.  Typed notes of the Task Force meetings have been provided to us in lieu of formal 
 
3 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wgrWXpZ22WI&list=PLINv5kF-
ynOTlLVr80pXYi4YeQZtS_wZK&index=8. 
4 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DNcHRarLvU&list=PLINv5kF-
ynOTlLVr80pXYi4YeQZtS_wZK&index=1. 
5 https://www.falmouth.k12.ma.us/future/building_needs_task_force. 
6 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a_PkkT6p64E.  
7 According to FAQs on the School District website, the five proposed plans are: 
1. Convert the Teaticket building into an Early Learning Center, serving students in Preschool (ages 3 and 4).  
2. Operate three elementary schools – East Falmouth (merged with Teaticket school community), Mullen-
Hall, and North Falmouth – all starting with Kindergarten.  
3. Plan for taking the Morse Pond building out of service off-line as a school, to be repurposed by the Town 
for their needs.  
4. Reconfigure the grade structure for schools serving Grades 5 – 8.  
5. Draft a proposal for a major renovation of Lawrence School. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes.  Although the Task Force does not require a quorum, the notes reflect that only one to 
three of the 13 members missed any of the meetings for which notes have been made available.  
It does not appear that the Task Force has taken formal votes but the body reached agreement 
relative to at least some of the proposed plans.  One of the Task Force members, Susan Augusta, 
reported back to the Selectboard regarding the work of the Task Force on at least one occasion. 
 
Superintendent Duerr presented to the Falmouth Selectboard at its October 7 meeting 
regarding the key challenges to the Falmouth public schools, including aging facilities and 
declining enrollment.  Again, she explained that the Task Force (originally called the Building 
Needs Committee) was formed to study these challenges and plans to address them, gather 
feedback, and make recommendations to the School Committee. 
 
Her slide show included the following graphic: 
 
 
At its first meeting, the Task Force discussed its purpose, which reflected other 
descriptions of its charge, including Superintendent Duerr’s October 7 presentation to the 
Selectboard: 
 
○ Understand the challenges 
○ Review the proposed plans 
○ Discuss feedback 
○ Give a recommendation to the school committee on the 5 proposed plans 
 
The Task Force discussed hiring a consultant for input on the issues before it and was in 
favor of doing so.  The final decision whether to hire the consultant “would be up to the 
Superintendent and School Committee,” however.  At its October 23 meeting, Superintendent 
Duerr reported to the Task Force about two consultants she contacted, one of whom was not 
available to perform the work.  The other consultant, New England School Development Council 
(“NESDEC”) was ultimately hired by the School District and issued its Best Educational Use of 
School Facilities Study Report on March 4, 2025 (“the March 4 Report”).  On March 6, 2025, 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the School Committee convened a special meeting, at which NESDEC presented the March 4 
Report to the public.  When introducing NESDEC, School Committee chair Kelly Welch 
thanked the Task Force “for their efforts back in the fall that got us to this point.”  She noted that 
the Task Force’s “response to community requests for additional data” resulted in the retention 
of NESDEC and preparation of the March 4 Report.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Task Force is a  subcommittee of the School Committee.  
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “
a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law definition of a subcommittee includes “any multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.”  Id.  Where a public body creates 
a multiple-member body and charges it with advising the creating body on public policy through 
collective action, that entity will likely be a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2012-28.8  Here, the creation of the Task Force appears to have been a joint effort by the 
School Committee and Superintendent Duerr.  Although the Task Force was not the brainchild of 
the School Committee exclusively, it clearly was created to provide recommendations to the 
School Committee relative to five specific proposals to address school building needs.  
 
In addition to its advisory capacity, the Task Force reflects other hallmarks of a public 
body.  For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1. 
 
 The Task Force was created by the School Committee and Superintendent Duerr.  
Therefore, it is within government and satisfies the first factor.   
 
Although a closer question, the Task Force also satisfies the second factor.  The Task 
Force has a fixed membership.  It is not a loose assembly with a changing roster of attendees.  
The Task Force has authority to work together to analyze and make recommendations relative to 
plans for school properties.  In analyzing whether a body satisfies the second factor, we have 
looked to whether its purpose is to work collaboratively.  See OML 2024-86; OML 2021-95; 
OML 2016-116.  That a body chooses to take votes or issue formal reports is not, in and of itself, 
determinative on the issue of whether it satisfies the second factor.  See OML 2024-86 (finding 
that committee that was authorized to oversee audit, collectively provide input to auditor, and 
 
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
resolve issues that may arise during audit process is, based on totality of information, a public 
body); OML 2021-95 (finding that committee satisfied second factor where its purpose was to 
compile and analyze information and work collaboratively to provide recommendations to Town 
Manager and Selectboard).  We have found the second factor unsatisfied where a committee 
serves an administrative function by compiling data and providing information to the Town but 
has no quorum requirements, takes no votes, makes no formal recommendations to a public body 
and is not empowered with decision-making or policy-advisory authority.  See OML 2013-56.  
Similarly, the second factor is not satisfied where a group has no set membership and lacks 
authority to take action, with Selectboard members serving only as liaisons to keep the 
Selectboard informed.  See OML 2023-149.  See also OML 2023-231 (Stakeholder Group that 
had no fixed membership, had no quorum requirement, took no votes and was created to share 
information, ideas and advice with staff of the Department of Environmental Protection did not 
satisfy the second factor).   
 
Her
e, the information before us includes multiple references to the Task Force’s purpose: 
to study and provide recommendations to the School Committee on five proposals to address the 
School District’s building needs.  Both Superintendent Duerr and the School Committee 
repeatedly have referenced this purpose.  Because the Task Force has not created minutes, we do 
not have a clear sense of how it has arrived at decisions and recommendations.  In its response, 
the School Committee denies that any formal votes are taken.  Nonetheless, it is clear that the 
Task Force has worked collaboratively to develop recommendations, including regarding 
retaining a consultant and relative to the five proposed plans for school buildings.   
 
Finally, the Task Force serves a public purpose, to wit, addressing facilities challenges 
faced by the School District.  Therefore, the third factor is satisfied.  For all of these reasons, we 
find that the Task Force is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. The Task Force does not  fall within the Connelly exception.  
 
In Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, the Supreme Judicial Court recognized an 
exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of a public body.  Connelly v. School 
Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991).  Under the Connelly exception, where an 
individual public official, who themself is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a 
committee to advise them on a decision that they have the sole authority to make, that committee 
is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 235.  See also, e.g., OML 2019-71 (working 
group fit within Connelly exception where it only possessed authority to make recommendations 
to the Mayor).   
 
We find that the Connelly exception does not apply to the Task Force.  Th
 e Task Force 
was formed to review challenges facing the Falmouth Public Schools, to consider plans that have 
been developed to address those challenges, and to provide recommendations of the School 
Committee.  Even though Superintendent Duerr may have played a role in its creation, the Task 
Force’s purpose was not to advise her on decisions she had the sole authority to make.  Rather, it 
is to make recommendations to the School Committee.   
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
III. The Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law when members failed to certify 
receipt of Open Meeting Law educational materials 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the educational materials 
that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to the 
public body within the last five years in which our office found a violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). 
Because Task Force members did not certify receipt of the Open Meeting Law materials within 
two weeks of qualification for office, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  
 
IV. We decl
 ine to review the remaining allegations of the complaint. 
 
The complainant alleges that the Task Force did not comply with “relevant parts of 
Section 22 in reference to ‘documents and other exhibits.’”  Open Meeting Law complaints must 
allege violations with a degree of specificity; our office will not conduct broad audits of public 
bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2021-129; OML 2016-57; OML 2012-106.  
Because the complainant does not direct us to the specifics of the alleged non-compliance, we 
decline to review this allegation.  To the extent that the complainant alleges that the Task Force 
has failed to include a list of documents within its minutes, we note that the Task Force has not 
created any minutes at all.  Because we find that the Task Force is a public body, it is required to 
prepare minutes in compliance with the Open Meeting Law, including minutes of past meetings, 
as set forth in our order below. 
 
The complainant further alleges that the formation of the Task Force should have been 
the s
ubject of a vote of the Falmouth School Committee.  We have, at times, cited to the vote to 
create a body as a factor indicating that it is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2021-95; OML 2018-21; OML 2016-102.  However, there is nothing within the Open 
Meeting Law which requires a formal vote to effectuate creation of a public body.  See OML 
2012-16.  We decline to review the allegation that a vote was not taken to create the Task Force 
because even if there were no vote (and it appears that there was none), this would not constitute 
a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force is a public body subject to the 
Open M
eeting Law and that it violated the Law when its members failed to certify receipt of 
Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks of their qualification for office.  We order that 
within 14 days of the date of this letter, members of the Task Force certify receipt of Open 
===PAGE 7===
Meeting Law materials and provide such certification to the Falmouth town clerk.º We also
order that within 60 days of the date of this letter, the Task Force create minutes of its meetings
that have taken place to date, and that it certify to our office that it has done so. Finally, we order
immediate and future compliance with the Law's requirements.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Task Force. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Superintendent of Schools Lori Duerr (via email: Iduenr@falmouth.k12.ma.us)
School Committee Chair Kelly Welch (via email: kwelch@falmouth.k12.ma.us)
Building Needs Task Force Chair Robert Antonucci (via email:
Town Clerk Michael Palmer (via email: michael.palmer@falmouthma.gov)
Michael McCarthy (via email:
Jennifer McCarthy (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
9 The educational materials and certification for can be found at the Attorney General's website, at
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/complete-public-body-member-certification.
7