===PAGE 1===
THE C OMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON P LACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 0 21 0 8 
(6 17 ) 72 7- 22 00 
www.mass.gov/ ago 
July 9 ,2 013 
OM L 2 0 1 3 -9 0 
Hea ther Applegate, Chair 
Mendon-Upton R egional S chool Comm ittee 
150 North Ave. 
Mendon, M A 01756 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comp laint 
Dear C hair Applegate: 
Th is o ffic e reviewed two com plaints dated July 6, 20 12, filed by M r. M ichael Goodwin, 
alle ging that the Mendo n-U pton R egional S cho ol Comm ittee (the " Co mm ittee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L . c. 30 A, §§ 18-25. The first com plaint was filed with the Comm ittee on 
or about April 2 1, 2 012, and alle ges that the exe cutive session minutes for the Co mmittee's 
January 11, 2010; March 24, 20 10; April 1, 2 010 and May 5, 2010 meetings "lack sufficient 
detail of the action(s) taken as required by G .L. 39, Sec 23B then in effect." The complaint also 
allege s th at the Comm ittee en tered into exe cutive session for an improp er purpose a t each of th e 
abo ve meetings. The second com plaint was also filed with the C ommittee on or abou t April 21, 
2012, and allege s that the topic fo r d iscussion during th e C om mittee's Novem ber 1, 2010 
execu tive session "does not meet any of the purpo ses to hold an exe cutive session and appears to 
have been held simply to avoid discussing the top ic during an open me eting." Additionally, th e 
complaint alleges that the min utes of the exe cutive session "la ck a summary of the discussion 
and any dec isio n(s) m ade as required by G.L. 30A, Sect 2 2." The C ommittee respond ed to both 
comp laints by letter dated May 24, 20 12. 
Our office assumed authority for the interpretation and enforcement of the Open Meeting 
Law, as it applies to local public bodies, on July 1, 2010. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(a); see also G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, generally. Prior to July 1, 2010, the law governing meetings of local public bodies, 
like the Board, was G.L. c. 39, § 23B (now repealed), and the District Attorneys were responsible for 
its enforcement. One of the practical effects of this change is that our office has authority to enforce 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, only with regard to violations that occurred on or 
after July 1, 2010. See OML 6-3-11 (Southborough Municipal Facilities Committee).1 We therefore 
1 Op en M ee tin g La w de te rm in at io ns an d de cl in ati on s ma y be foun d at the A tto rn ey G en er al 's w eb sit e, 
w w w .m as s.g ov /a go /o pe nm ee tm g. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 

===PAGE 2===
decline to review the first complaint. Although we do not review these allegations, three or more 
registered voters may pursue this matter in S uperior Court. See G .L. c. 3 0A, § 23(f). 
Follow ing our review of the second com plaint, w e find that the C ommittee violated the 
Open M eeting Law bec ause it discu ssed a top ic in e xec utive session that was no t ap pro priate for 
execu tive session. In reaching this de termination, we reviewed the April 21, 2012 complaint 
filed with the Comm ittee; the Co mm ittee's May 24, 2012 respon se; and the July 6, 201 2 
com plaint filed with o ur office. Additionally, w e reviewed the open and execu tive session 
min utes of the C om mittee's Novem ber 1, 201 0 m eeting. 
FACTS 
The Com mittee met in executive session o n N ove mber 1, 201 0. The notice for the 
meetin g listed several topics, including "Executive S essio n." According to the min utes, the 
Comm ittee en tered exe cutive session "to discus s a personnel ma tter." The minutes of the 
execu tive session read; 
Superintend ent Femandcs discussed that around mid Decem ber an adm inistra tor will no t 
return the follow ing year. Mr. Femandes wanted to share this info rmatio n so we could be 
prepared to beg in another principal search. 
The C ommittee did not take an y v otes or use any docum ents du ring the discussion. The 
execu tive session lasted only 16 m inutes. The C om mittee publicly released the minutes of the 
November 1, 2010 exe cutive session on April 9, 2012, follo win g a request fo r th e m inutes by the 
com plainant. 
DISCUSSIO N 
1. The Comm itte e D iscu ssed Topics in its Novem ber 1, 2 010 Executive Session that 
were not Appropriate for Executive Session. 
The O pen Meeting Law provides that pub lic bod ies may meet in e xecutive session for 
any of ten enu merated purpos es. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a). One purpose is to "d isc uss th e repu tation, 
cha racter, physical condition or mental hea lth, rather th an professional com petence, of an 
ind ividual, or to discuss the discipline or d ism issal of, or com plaints or charges brought ag ainst, 
a public offic er, emplo yee , staff member or individual" ("Purp ose 1"). G.L . c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
The C ommittee entered Executive Session on Novem ber 1, 2 010 under Purpose 1 "to 
discuss a personnel matter." However, the C ommittee did not d iscuss an individu al's reputation, 
cha racter physica l c ondition or m ental health, or the discipline or dism issal of or com plaints or 
cha rges brought against, a public officer, employee , staff member or individual. G.L . c. 30A , § 
21(a)(1). The C om mittee heard from the Superintend ent, who explain ed that a school p rincipal 
would be leav ing, and that the C ommittee would need to cond uct a search for a new prin cipal. 
Becau se this topic does not fit within Purpose 1 , or any of the oth er purposes for exe cutive 
session, the discussion should hav e occurred in open session. 
2 

===PAGE 3===
2. The Minutes of the Co mm ittee's Novem ber 1, 2010 Executive S ession are 
Sufficiently D etailed . 
The Open Meeting Law requ ires a pub lic body to "create and maintain accurate min utes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting fo rth the d ate, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a sum mary of the discus sions on each subject, a list of docum ents and other 
exhibits used at th e m eeting, the decision s m ade and the actions taken at each meetin g, including 
the record of all votes ." G.L . c. 30A, § 22(a). Our office will generally only review minutes for 
substantial com pliance with the accuracy r equ irement. See OM L 2 012-1 06; O ML 201 1-55. By 
substantial com plianc e, we mean that the m inu tes should contain eno ugh detail and accuracy so 
that a member o f th e public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and hav e a 
clear understanding of what occurred. Id. 
The m inu tes of the Co mmittee's N ovember 1, 20 10 executive session are sho rt. 
However, th e m inutes accurately sum marize th e brief d iscussion that occu rred. The public can 
read th ese minutes and understand that the Superintend ent informed the Comm ittee th at a 
principal w ould be leaving, and tha t the C ommittee w ould need to undertake a search for a new 
principal. The C ommittee took no action, thus no votes are recorded. While the Comm ittee 
should have include d the nam e of the principal who was leaving, if that inform ation was shared 
with th e C om mittee, the minutes appe ar to reflect the substan ce of the discussion that occurred. 
We therefore find that th e m inutes substantia lly com ply with the Open Me etin g L aw 's 
requirement that the Comm ittee create "accurate minutes of all meetin gs, includ ing executive 
sessions, setting for th ... a summary of the discus sions on each subje ct." G.L . c. 30A, § 22 (a). 
We find that the minutes of the Co mmittee's Novem ber 1, 2 010 exec utive session 
substantially com plied with th e Open Meetin g L aw 's requirements, h oweve r th e C ommittee 
violated the Open Me eting Law by holding the discussion recorded therein behind closed doo rs. 
We ord er the Co mmittee's imm ediate and future com plianc e with the Law , and caution that 
similar future violations m ay be c onsidered evidence of a n in tentional violation of the Law. 
With the issuance of this determ ination, we now consider th is matter close d. This letter 
does not resolve any oth er com plaints ag ainst the Comm ittee that m ay be pending with our 
office. If you hav e any que stio ns regarding this letter, please contact our office at (61 7) 9 63-
CONCLUSIO N 
2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jon athan Sclarsic 
Assistant A ttorney General 
Div isio n of Open Government 
3 

===PAGE 4===
cc: Michael Goodwin 
Rosann D iPietro, Esq . 
This determ ination w as issued pur suant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A pub lic body or any 
member of a b ody aggrieved by this order may obtain jud icia l review through an a ctio n 
filed in Super ior Court p ursuan t to G.L. c. 30 A, § 23(d). The comp laint must b e filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one day s of receipt of this orde r. 
