===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 31, 2019 
OML 2019-6
Brian Riley, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Riley:
This office received a complaint from Jill Normandin on September 24, 2018, alleging 
that the Westminster Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 25, 2018, 
and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated August 9, 2018.1 
In her complaint, Ms. Normandin alleges that, during the Board’s June 26, 2018 meeting, the 
Board or the Town Planner secretly made a decision “without proper [B]oard discussion or 
public input.”2 Ms. Normandin also alleges that the Town Planner improperly discouraged 
input from both the Board and the public.3
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We reviewed 
the minutes from Board meetings held on January 9; March 27; April 24; and June 26, 2018. 
We also communicated by email with Board counsel on December 21 and January 2. Finally, 
we spoke by telephone with the complainant on January 15, 2019.
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.
2 Ms. Normandin also alleges that similar violations occurred during the Board’s April 24 meeting. Any 
allegation concerning this meeting would have been discoverable within 30 days of the date of the meeting. 
Because this complaint was filed with the Board roughly two months later, on July 25, 2018, we find it to be 
untimely and we decline to review it. See OML Declination 7-2-18 (Pembroke Planning Board).
3 The Town Planner is a public official who is not a member of the Board. As such, he is not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2015-31. Therefore, we decline to review this allegation.
o

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Over the course of several months, the Board held a 
hearing on a site plan review application for a proposed solar farm located at 180 State Road 
East (the “Cresticon project”).4 The complainant was a member of the Board for most of the 
meetings during which the Board discussed the project except for the final meeting on June 
26, 2018, when the Board approved the site plan.
During the pendency of the application, the Town Planner sought and obtained input 
from various Town boards and department heads, the applicant’s consultants, and the Board’s 
consultant. The Town Planner updated the Board on the progress of the review at each 
meeting during which the Board considered the application. The Town Planner also emailed 
Board members in advance of each meeting with an update on the application’s status and 
what the Board could expect during the meeting. Board members did not include any other 
Board members on any communication to the Town Planner concerning the project, nor did a 
quorum of the Board communicate about the project outside of a meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
pubic body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant 
part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id
The complaint alleges that the Board voted to expand the Cresticon project, at the 
behest of the Town Planner, without discussing it first during an open meeting.5 The Town 
Planner is not a member of the Board and is therefore not subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
see OML 2015-31, but a public body may not use a non-member to communicate on matters 
that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting. See District Attorney 
for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009)
4 The hearing began on January 9, and continued on March 27, April 24, and June 26, 2018.
5 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Town Planner secretly made this decision without the Board’s 
input, we note that this would not constitute a violation under the Open Meeting Law as the law does not govern 
the actions of public officials who are not members of a public body, nor does it govern a public body’s 
delegation of its authority. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation. See 
OML Declination 2-13-17 (Orange Board of Selectmen).
2

===PAGE 3===
(“Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by 
conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the 
telephone, or in any other form”); OML 2017-125.6 Based on our review, we find that the 
Board did not communicate with each other, or via the Town Planner, outside of a meeting 
regarding the Cresticon application prior to its approval of the project on June 26, 2018.7 See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also McCrea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law). Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Jill Normandin
Westminster Planning Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
7 Additionally, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern a public body’s process and procedure, such 
as requiring it to discuss a topic substantively prior to taking any action. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
3
