===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
•  ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 26, 2012 
OML 2012 — 69 
Rebecca Bryant, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bryant and Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Paul Johnson on or about August 7, 2011, alleging 
that the Town of Carver School Committee (the "Committee") and the Carver Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee and the Board on or about June 13, 2011. The 
Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated July 1, 2011, and the Board 
responded by letter dated July 6, 2011. In his complaint, Mr. Johnson alleges that, with regard to 
a meeting of the Board held on May 24, 2011, the Board's meeting notice was not sufficiently 
detailed because it did not list the meeting as a joint meeting with the Committee, even though 
that was reasonably anticipated by the Board chair; and that the Committee's participation in the 
Board's meeting constituted an improper deliberation. Mr. Johnson also alleges that, separate 
from the Board's meeting on May 24, 2011 but on that same date, the Committee deliberated 
outside of an open session or properly convened executive session; the Committee met in 
executive session for improper purposes; and the Committee failed to follow proper procedures 
for entering executive session and took a vote during executive session that was not by roll call. 
We reviewed the June 13, 2011 and August 7, 2011 complaints; the Committee's July 1, 
2011 response; the Board's July 6, 2011 response; a July 5, 2011 email from the complainant to 
our office clarifying the allegations in the complaint; an August 7, 2011 email from the 
complainant to our office responding to the Board's July 6, 2011 response; a letter from the 
Board dated August 30, 2011, and letters from the Committee dated September 15, 2011 and 
November 22, 2011, responding to our requests for documents and information; the notice for 
the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting; the notice for the Committee's May 24, 2011 meeting; the 
===PAGE 2===
open session minutes and video recording from the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting; the executive 
session minutes from the Committee's May 24, 2011 meeting; minutes of the Committee's June 
13 and August 15, 2011 open session meetings; and correspondence from attorney Rebecca 
Bryant, dated December 14, 2011, December 22, 2011, March 8, 2012, March 23, 2012, and 
April 17, 2012, providing responses to questions posed by our office. In addition, we conducted 
a telephone interview with Board Chair Jack Angley and Town Administrator Rick LaFond on 
January 4, 2012. We appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered this complaint. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, 
however the Committee did by improperly deliberating outside of an open meeting, and by 
failing to follow proper procedures when entering executive session on May 24, 2011. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
Notice and an agenda for the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting were posted by the Carver 
Town Clerk on May 19, 2011. Under "Action and Discussion," the notice listed "School 
Building Project Special Election" as a topic for discussion. 
The Chair of the Committee anticipated that a quorum of the Committee would attend the 
Board's meeting on May 24, 2011, and may be called upon to deliberate and take a position on 
the School Building Project. The Committee therefore posted notice for a May 24, 2011 
"Combined Meeting with Board of Selectmen." Notice was posted by the Carver Town Clerk on 
May 17, 2011, and the Agenda listed the "School Building Project" as the only topic for 
discussion. 
All five members of the Committee attended the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting. 
According to the Committee, although notice was posted for a meeting, the Committee never 
convened a meeting on that date. During the Board's meeting, the Committee members sat or 
stood with the audience, and it appears that only two Committee members (less than a quorum) 
participated in the discussion. At the start of the Board's discussion of the School Building 
Project, Committee Vice-Chair Hanlon-Cavicchi moved to the Presenter's Table to address the 
Board, but returned to the audience at the conclusion of her remarks. The open session minutes 
reflect that Hanlon-Cavicchi requested that the Board "approve and schedule a Special Election 
prior to June 30, 2011 with a debt exclusion ballot question regarding the school building 
project." Extensive discussion followed, during which several Town officials with information 
relevant to the discussion, including proposals for how the Town could finance the project, 
spoke. The Chair noted that he was not recognizing anyone from the floor, only the elected and 
appointed officials that had requested to be heard on the subject. After much discussion, 
Selectwoman Hewins made a motion to put temporary debt exclusion on a ballot question before 
June 30, 2011, and was seconded by Selectman Ward. Selectwoman Hewins requested input 
from the Committee's Chair or Vice-Chair before the vote. Committee Chair Paula Kibbe then 
came to the presenters' microphone and stated that the Committee hadn't discussed the new 
funding options that were proposed, so she couldn't provide their opinion on that, but reiterated 
the positions stated by Hanlon-Cavicchi earlier in the meeting. A vote was then taken, but did 
not pass. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
After more discussion of the issue, Selectman O'Donnell made a motion "to have a 
Special Election with two ballot [questions], one to have a debt exclusion, contingent upon 
wraparound and an under ride of $450,000, and the other a straight debt exclusion, and subject to 
Town Counsel's opinion." There was no second, and the motion was withdrawn. The Board 
Chair then called a five minute recess. 
During the recess, the Committee held an executive session that lasted five to ten 
minutes. The minutes from the executive session do not state which members were present or 
absent during that session. During the executive session, the Superintendent presented the 
outcome of collective bargaining negotiations with the Education Association of Plymouth and 
Carver (teacher unit) ("EAPC") to the Committee, and a motion was made and seconded to 
accept the contract proposal presented by the negotiating committee. The minutes do not state 
the terms of the contract proposal. There was no discussion, and the minutes show the vote 
passed unanimously. The vote was not recorded by roll call. 
When the Board's meeting reconvened, several other agenda items were discussed. 
According to the Committee, two Committee members left during this time, and the three 
remaining members "stepped into the hallway while the BOS meeting was in session" 1  to seek 
clarification from a member of the Town's Capital Building Study Committee (CBSC) regarding 
a potential alternative ballot question relating to funding the School Project (the "underride"), 
that he'd described to the Board earlier in the meeting. 
Shortly before the Board's meeting concluded, Selectman O'Donnell once again made a 
motion "to approve a special election with the two ballot questions with the debt exclusion for 
the school contingent upon an under ride passing with the wraparound, approved by Town 
Counsel and Bond Counsel." The minutes state that O'Donnell was "questioned by the School 
Committee" about the implications of this vote, but do not identify who posed the question. 2  The 
minutes then note that the "School Committee stated they were not in favor" of the motion. A 
vote was then taken by the Board, and failed by a vote of 1 to 4. 
On June 13, 2011, the Committee held a televised open meeting. The Committee voted 
to approve the minutes from its May 24, 2011 executive session during this meeting. A 
Memorandum of Agreement reflecting the terms of the agreement between the Committee and 
the EAPC was attached to the meeting minutes. 
The Committee met again in open session on August 15, 2011. During that meeting, 
Complainant's Open Meeting Law complaint was discussed and, according to the minutes, the 
Committee stated, "We erred on the fact we did not announce the reason to the total meeting that 
was the purpose of convening to executive session." Committee member Walsh stated that, "the 
Committee did not intentionally try to derail anything, it was a mistake and it will be addressed." 
The Committee attended a training session on the Open Meeting Law, conducted by 
attorney Rebecca Bryant,3  on October 24, 2011. 
1  There is disagreement between the complainant and the Committee about where this discussion occurred, with 
complainant arguing it happened behind closed doors. 
2  The video recording of the meeting was corrupted, thus we were unable to view this portion of the meeting. 3  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges multiple violations of the Open Meeting Law stemming from the 
meetings on May 24, 2011. We address these issues in turn. 
1. The Board's meeting notice was sufficiently detailed because the Chair did not 
reasonably anticipate holding a joint meeting with the Committee, and ultimately did not 
do so- 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice for a meeting 48 hours in 
advance, and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the 
public body's discussion will be. 
The Board's response to the complaint states that, "the Board's agenda item clearly 
informed members of the public as to the subject matter to be discussed, the calling of a special 
election." The Board's response continues, "The Chair reasonably anticipated that the Board 
would act on several matters, including the question of whether to call for a special election to 
consider the school project debt exclusion, and included that topic on the meeting notice 
sufficient to notify the residents of Carver as to what would be discussed." 
We agree that the Board's May 17, 2011 meeting notice was sufficiently specific to 
advise the public of the issues the Board planned to discuss during its meeting. Any member of 
the public interested in learning what the Board planned to discuss could obtain that information 
from the notice as written. There is no requirement that public bodies identify in the meeting 
notice all individuals who may wish to address that body on a specific topic. If two or more 
public bodies plan to hold a joint meeting, however, for purposes of clarity, all bodies involved 
should note in their meeting notices that this will be a joint meeting with the other bodies. 4  See 
OML 2012-6; OML 2011-16. 5  Here, though, it appears that the Board did not anticipate holding 
a joint meeting. The Committee posted notice for a joint meeting in case a quorum wanted to 
participate in the Board's meeting, which ultimately did not occur. While the Board Chair 
anticipated that one or more members of the Committee might present pertinent information to 
the Board on the topic of the School Building Project, the Board did not plan to hold a joint 
4  See also the section of our office's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the Open 
Meeting Law, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting:  
May two or more public bodies hold a joint meeting? 
Yes, two or more public bodies may hold a joint meeting. However, each public body participating in the meeting 
must provide notice pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 20. The public bodies must provide independent notice of their 
meetings, or if posting a single notice, must clearly state that each public body will be meeting. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4 
===PAGE 5===
meeting with the Committee, therefore the Board was not required to state in the notice whether 
any Committee members would participate. 
2. The Committee's participation in the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting did not constitute an 
improper deliberation; 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction," however a meeting does not include the 
"attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, 
as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
Because it anticipated that a quorum would attend the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting and 
may wish to deliberate, the Committee erred on the side of caution and posted notice for a 
meeting on that date. It appears that no meeting of the Committee was ever convened, however. 
While a quorum of the Committee was present, they sat or stood in the audience, and it appears 
that only two Committee members — less than a quorum — actually participated in the discussion. 
Therefore, there was no deliberation as defined in the Open Meeting Law. 
Furthermore, we note that the Committee's decision to post notice for a potential meeting 
on that date was consistent with the goals of government transparency. Individuals interested in 
hearing the Committee's views on this topic were aware as a result of the Committee's notice 
that they may be discussing the topic during the Board's May 24, 2011 meeting. The fact that 
the Committee did not ultimately hold a meeting that was posted was not a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
3. The Committee deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting; 
The Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by engaging in unlawful deliberation 
when a quorum of the Committee stepped out of the Board's meeting to discuss the proposed 
underride with a member of the CBSC. While the Complainant alleges that the Committee 
members discussed this proposal and decided to reject it during this brief meeting, the 
Committee disagrees, stating they were merely seeking and receiving information about the 
proposal. Regardless of whether the Committee members reached a decision on the proposal 
during this discussion, the discussion constituted a deliberation because a quorum of the 
Committee was discussing matters within that body's jurisdiction. Although the decision about 
whether to put the question on the ballot was exclusively the Board's, the underride had the 
potential to effect numerous matters within the Committee's jurisdiction, which was likely the 
reason the Board sought the Committee's input in the first place. The Committee therefore 
should not have had this discussion outside of an open meeting. 
4. The Committee met in executive session on May 24, 2011 for a proper purpose; 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies 
to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside of the public view for ten specific 
purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One appropriate purpose for executive session is "To discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining . . . if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining . . . position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
Although the complainant contends that the Committee met in executive session on May 
24, 2011 to discuss the school building project, the meeting minutes and the Committee's 
response to the complaint indicate that the executive session was "for the sole purpose of 
discussing strategy for collective bargaining, resulting in the School Committee's acceptance of 
its bargaining team's recommendation." The law allows a public body to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining in executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). We therefore find 
that the Committee met in executive session on May 24, 2011 for a proper purpose. 
5. The Committee Failed to Follow the Required Procedures for Entering into Executive  
Session; 
Although the purpose for the May 24, 2011 executive session was appropriate, the 
executive session itself violated the Open Meeting Law because there was no notice to the public 
that it would occur and the Committee failed to comply with any of the required procedures for 
convening such a meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 2011-34. In addition, while the 
Committee took minutes of the executive session, the minutes were not sufficiently detailed 
because they did not identify the members present or absent, did not state with whom the 
Committee was negotiating, and did not contain any detail about the contract proposal that was 
presented by the negotiating committee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2011-34. Finally, the 
vote taken by the Committee in executive session was not recorded by roll call, as required by 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b). 
The Committee's September 15, 2011 letter acknowledged that the Committee made "a 
number of procedural errors" relating to the May 24, 2011 executive session, but argued they 
were not intentional and were partially the result of the inexperience of Committee members. It 
does appear that the violations resulted from lack of knowledge about the law's requirements 
rather than intent to evade them, therefore we do not fmd this to be an intentional violation. 
However, we remind the Committee that all public body members are required to familiarize 
themselves with the law's requirements upon taking the oath of office, if required, or before 
entering into performance of the office, and must certify that they understand the consequences 
for violating it. 940 CMR 29.04(1). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, 
but the Board did not. We commend the Committee for acknowledging its mistakes and 
proactively attending training on the Open Meeting Law. We accordingly order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Committee that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the 
Board, or the Committee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any 
facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Paul Johnson 
Carver School Committee 
Carver Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 