===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 15,2018 
OML 2018-69 
Charlton Board of Assessors 
c/o Deborah Ceccarini 
Charlton Director of Assessing 
37 Main Street 
Charlton, MA 01507 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Ceccarini: 
This office received a complaint from Nancy Landry on February 15, 2018, alleging 
that the Charlton Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 15, 
2017 and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a December 21, 2017 
email. In her complaint, Ms. Landry alleges that that Board failed to post on its meeting 
notice the correct purpose for an executive session held on November 21, 2017 and failed to 
provide her with written notification of the anticipated executive session for which she was 
the subject of discussion. Ms. Landry further alleges that the Board failed to vote by roll call 
to convene in executive session and failed to offer her the option of having the discussion in 
open session. Finally, Ms. Landry alleges that a quorum of the Board discussed the topic 
prior to the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with the procedures for convening an executive session, including a failure 
to provide Ms. Landry with 48 hours' written notice, and by failing to provide the public with 
sufficient detail about the executive session's purpose. We find no violation with respect to 
the final allegation. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice and executive session minutes of the Board's meetings 
held on November 21, 2017; December 26, 2017; and January 1, 2018.' Finally, we spoke 
1 We note that, while open session and executive session minutes may be a combined document, they should 
accurately distinguish between open and executive session so that they may be segregated if a request is made 
and the executive session minutes are withheld from disclosure. See OML 2013-155. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
individually by telephone with the complainant on April 4, 2018, and with Board Chair 
Richard Vaughan and Director of Assessing Deborah Ceccarini on April 25, 2018. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. The complainant is a member of the Board. On November 8, 
2017, a resident submitted a letter to the Board complaining about an exchange he had 
allegedly had with the complainant outside of the Board's office that day. Chair Vaughan 
promptly learned about the alleged incident from an acquaintance and then spoke with Ms. 
Ceccarini a few days later and asked her to put the topic on the agenda as an executive session 
for the next Board meeting, which was scheduled for November 21, 2017. Chair Vaughan 
also went to the Board office to obtain a copy of the letter. Chair Vaughan did not speak with 
the other two Board members about the alleged incident nor did he share a copy of the letter 
with either of them before the next meeting. 
During its November 21, 2017 meeting, the Board convened an executive session 
pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1) "to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual" ("Purpose 1"). Although an anticipated topic for 
discussion, this topic was not specifically listed on the meeting notice, though the Board 
posted a different executive session topic, as "M.G.L. Ch23B #7- To comply with the 
provisions of any general or special law or federal grain-in-aid (sic) requirements. 
General=Ch, 59, Sec. 60 requiring confidentiality."2 Ms. Ceccarini stated that she believed 
the topic would fall under this longstanding executive session topic on the Board's meeting 
notices. Prior to the executive session, the Board voted to convene in executive session under 
Purpose 1, using the statutory language to describe the purpose to the public. According to 
the meeting minutes, the Board did not take a roll call vote or announce whether it would 
reconvene in open session following the executive session. The complainant was unaware of 
the subject of the executive session until the Board had convened in executive session. The 
Board did not provide the complainant with any written notification of this anticipated 
discussion. During the executive session, the Board reviewed the resident's letter about the 
alleged incident involving the complainant. 
The complainant filed this complaint with the Board on December 15, 2017. In 
response (and after general consultation with our office about the law's requirements), the 
Board held an executive session on December 26, 2017 to discuss the complaint "under MGL 
Ch.SOA, sec 21 under purpose #1."3 As a result of its discussion, the Board decided to 
remedy the violation alleged in the complaint by scheduling a meeting on January 2, 2018 to 
2 We note that the Open Meeting Law was revised, effective July 1, 2010. The revised law has not changed with 
respect to Purpose 7, except that the citation has changed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). 
3 The complainant was not present for this meeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
re-discuss the matter, again in executive session under Purpose 1.4 This time, the Board 
provided the complainant with 48 hours' written notice of this Purpose 1 discussion by email 
and mail on December 27, 2017. The Board posted this topic on its notice as follows: 
Purpose #1. To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, 
staff member or individual. This meeting under executive session will discuss a 
complaint letter received from a taxpayer addressed to the Board of Assessors 
regarding an incident at town hall on November 8th, 2017. This meeting will rescind 
and replace the executive session meeting held on Nov. 21st. 
During this meeting, the complainant opted to hold the discussion in open session. 
Following a discussion between the members, the Board did not take any action in response to 
the resident's November 8, 2017 letter. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, "except in an 
emergency...a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
has voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member to do so is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). One purpose allows a public 
body to enter executive session to "to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the 
discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The 
individual to be discussed during such an executive session must be notified in writing by the 
public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and has the right to be 
present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to speak on her own behalf. Id. 
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 
4 The Board also voted to rescind the November 21, 2017 executive session minutes. The Open Meeting Law 
does not permit a public body to rescind minutes of a meeting deemed in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Notwithstanding the legality of a particular meeting, a Board meeting occurred, thus the law requires a written 
record of that meeting in the form of minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(a), (c). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public 
that the school Board would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."). This level of detail about the 
executive session topic should also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). 
I. The Board Failed to Cite to the Correct Executive Session Purpose and Failed 
to Comply with the Requirements for Convening under Purpose 1. 
The complaint alleges that the Board posted the incorrect purpose for an executive 
session held on November 21, 2017. We agree and conclude that the Board cited the 
incorrect statutory purpose on its meeting notice, relying on a longstanding executive session 
topic on its meeting notices (Purpose 7 for the Board's review of tax abatement applications), 
but in fact held an entirely different discussion under Purpose 1 to review a complaint against 
the complainant. The Board's discussion fell under executive session Purpose 1, therefore we 
agree with the complainant that the Board failed to provide her with the required written 
notification of the anticipated executive session for which she was the subject of discussion. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Because the complainant did not receive any notice and was 
unaware of the nature of the executive session until it had begun, she was unprepared to assert 
her rights as the subject of the discussion, including her right to have the discussion in open, 
rather than executive, session, and her right to have a representative, such as counsel, present 
for the discussion. See id. For these reasons, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We commend the Board for taking remedial action on January 2, 2018 in 
response to this complaint by nullifying its November 21, 2017 executive session and holding 
a new discussion under the proper Purpose 1 procedures. 
II. The Board Failed to Comply with the General Procedural Requirements for 
Convening an Executive Session. 
Aside from failing to provide the specific procedural rights to the complainant 
required under Purpose 1, the Board also violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to comply 
with the general procedural requirements for convening an executive session. Namely, the 
Board failed to vote by roll call to approve convening in executive session and failed to 
announce whether it would reconvene in open session, or whether it would adjourn in 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). As a result of all of the above violations, the 
Board may not continue to withhold the November 21, 2017 executive session minutes under 
the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. BOA, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes 
of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law)-, OML 2016-121; OML 2014-30.5 The Board may continue to withhold 
the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any applicable exemptions to 
the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.go/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
III. The Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Meeting. 
We find no evidence that a quorum of the Board discussed the alleged incident or 
complaint prior to the meeting, either directly or via Ms. Ceccarini, who is not a Board 
member. The Open Meeting Law governs communications between or among a quorum of 
the Board. G.L. c. 3OA, § 18 (deliberation is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body 
on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not 
include the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed"). Leading up to the November 21, 2017 meeting. Chair Vaughan did not discuss 
the resident's letter with the complainant or the other Board member. Chair Vaughan did 
discuss the issue with Ms. Ceccarini, who is responsible for drafting the Board's meetings 
notices. It does not appear, however, that Chair Vaughan asked Ms. Ceccarini to share the 
letter or discuss the issue with the other two Board members prior to the meeting. See District 
Attornev for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 
(2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law 
by conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the 
telephone, or in any other form"). Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to comply with the procedures for convening an executive session, including a 
failure to provide the subject of a Purpose 1 discussion with 48 hours' written notice, and by 
failing to provide the public with sufficient detail about the executive session purpose. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to publicly release its 
November 21, 2017 executive session minutes in accordance with the guidance above. 
Finally, because the Board held a Purpose 1 executive session in which it did not provide 
advanced written notice to the person who was the subject of the discussion, we would 
normally order the nullification of the Board's executive session. Because the Board 
convened a subsequent meeting in an effort to remedy the violations, however, nullification is 
not necessary. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
5 
===PAGE 6===
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Nancy Landry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 