===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 26, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 194 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Christine O’Connor, Esq.  
City Solicitor 
City of Lowell-Law Department 
COConnor@lowellma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Connor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Laura Ortiz on June 5, 2022, alleging that the 
Lowell City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on March 23, 2022, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated April 4, 2022.
1  The complaint alleges that the Council 
failed to timely respond to a request for executive session meeting minutes and failed to release 
executive session meeting minutes to the public once the purpose for the executive session had 
ended. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely respond to a request for executive session meeting minutes within 10 days, but did not 
violate the Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for 
further review.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1).  When the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits 
used at the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the 
Public Records Law applies.  Id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of 
executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
warranted, even in the absence of a specific request for the minutes, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review and record the announcement in the 
meeting minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-35; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.2  
Although the Open Meeting Law does not define “reasonable intervals,” we have found that 
quarterly reviews or reviews every six months satisfy the law.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-
166; OML 2013-180.  
 
In addition, a public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 
10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  If the public body or a designee has determined, prior to the 
request, that certain executive session minutes may be released, it should respond to the requester 
directly, notifying him or her of the availability of those minutes.  See OML 2013-105; OML 
2013-99.  And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such 
a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  In such circumstances, the public body must 
still respond to a requestor within 10 days and, at the very least, notify him or her that it is 
conducting a review to determine whether minutes can be released.  See OML 2022-123; OML 
2015-86; OML 2013-199; OML 2013-99.  We encourage public bodies to also include specific 
information about when the minutes will be reviewed.  See OML 2015-130.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
“publish” the requested executive session meeting minutes on or shortly after February 15, when 
the Council took final action on the matter that had been the subject of the executive session 
discussions.  The executive sessions in question were held between September 2021 and 
February 2022, with the matter discussed reaching a resolution on February 15, 2022.  Where the 
executive session minutes were posted online within approximately three weeks of the resolution 
of the matter, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard.  
Nonetheless, we take this opportunity to remind the Council of the obligation to review all 
executive session meeting minutes at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-
disclosure is warranted or if the minutes can be released to the public, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting and record the announcement in the minutes. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the Council failed to properly respond to a request for 
executive session meeting minutes.  On February 21, the complainant sent a request to the 
Council for minutes of executive sessions since September 21, 2021, that pertained to certain 
specified topics.  As February 21 was a holiday, the request is deemed received on February 22, 
and a response to the complainant should have been provided to the complainant within 10 days, 
or by March 4.  The Council posted the requested executive meeting minutes to its website on 
March 2,
3 which was within 10 days, but did not notify the complainant that it had done so or 
otherwise respond to complainant’s request for meeting minutes until March 23, when the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 There is some dispute as to whether at least one set of executive session meeting minutes was posted on March 2 
as the Council asserts or not until March 7, based on the metadata for the currently posted version of the minutes 
showing the PDF document was created on March 7.  We need not resolve this discrepancy, however, because 
regardless of whether the minutes were posted online on March 2 or March 7,  there is no dispute that a response to 
the request for minutes was not timely provided to the requester. 
===PAGE 3===
complainant filed this Open Meeting Law complaint. Although we commend the Council for
promptly reviewing and posting online the requested executive session minutes, the Council
nonetheless violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the requester within 10 days.
We order no further remedial action as the Council has released the requested executive session
minutes.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by
failing to timely respond to a request for executive session meeting minutes, when it posted the
requested minutes online but did not respond to the requester. We order the Council's immediate
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Council that a determination
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate
the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Carie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc:
Laura Ortiz (via e-mail:
Lowell City Council (via e-mail: nanastasi@lowellma.gov; schau@lowellma.gov;
mgeary@lowellma.gov)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3