===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
February 21, 2012 
OML 2012-14 
Ms. Mary Walter, Chair 
North Brookfield Board of Selectmen 
215 North Main Street 
North Brookfield, MA 01535 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Walter: 
On September 7, 2010, this office received a complaint filed by you, in your capacity as a 
member of the North Brookfield Board of Selectmen, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the North Brookfield Board of Selectmen (the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that "[a]t no time prior to [the July 6, 2010 meeting of the Board] was I given notice in writing or 
otherwise that I...was the subject of Executive Session." You assert that the Board's failure to notify you 
in advance of the meeting that you would be the subject of a complaint discussed during executive session 
resulted in a violation of the rights set forth in G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
In arriving at our determination we reviewed the original complaint, dated August 4, 2010; the 
response by the Board to you, dated August 24, 2010; the response by the Board to this office, dated 
August 25, 2010; your request for further review by this office, received on September 7, 2010; the 
meeting notices for meetings of the Board convened on July 6, 2010 and August 17, 2010; the open and 
executive session minutes of the Board's meeting on July 6, 2010; an addendum to the executive session 
minutes of the Board's meeting on July 6, 2010, adopted on August 17, 2010; a memo from you to former 
Board Chairman Jason Petraitis, dated June 18, 2010; and a video of the Board's meeting on August 17, 
2010. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following our review, we 
find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide you with notice that you were 
the subject of an executive session entered into for the stated purpose of discussing a complaint against a 
public official. We do not, however, find that the violation was intentional. 
FACTS 
On July 6, 2010, the Board, which consists of three members, convened in an open session. The 
agenda listed several topics for discussion, including "Executive Session to Hear Complaints Against a 
===PAGE 2===
Public Officer." The minutes indicate that at this meeting, the Board voted to "enter Executive Session 
for the purpose of discussing strategy related to contract negotiations, and to hear complaints against a 
public officer." During the executive session, the Chair presented an internal memo sent from you to the 
Chair regarding two vouchers on an upcoming Town Meeting warrant. The Chair reported that he 
contacted the District Attorney's office about the memo and "was told that the memo violates the state's 
Open Meeting Law because it constitutes a discussion between two members of the Board of Selectmen 
outside a posted meeting, and excludes the third member of the Board." Discussion about the memo 
concluded with an agreement among the members of the Board that future questions about bi-weekly bills 
and payroll would be addressed during an open meeting of the Board. 
On August 4, 2010, you filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board. In the complaint, 
you state that prior to the July 6th  meeting the Board did not provide you with notice that you or the 
document that you had written would be discussed during executive session. This failure of notice, you 
assert, violated your rights under the Open Meeting Law. In addition, your complaint disputed the 
accuracy of the executive session minutes, and requested amendment of the executive session minutes, as 
follows: 
Mr. Petraitis presented an Internal Memo from Mrs. Walter 
(Attachment #E3) that was written on June 18th  questioning two 
vouchers on the June 22" warrant. Mr. Petraitis reported that he 
had contacted the District Attorney's Office and was told that the 
memo could be considered a violation of the Open Meeting Law 
because it constitutes a discussion between two members of 
the Board of Selectmen outside of a posted meeting and excludes 
the third member of the Board. Mr. Petraitis further stated that no 
charge had been filed and that he had not read the document. 
Mrs. Walter asked how one could communicate such a message 
to the Board. Mr. Petraitis stated that sending the information to 
selectmen@northbrookfield.net  to the Administrative Assistant 
would be acceptable. 
After some discussion it was agreed that any questions regarding 
bi-weekly bills and payroll would be brought up during the open meeting 
before the approval of the warrants. 
Mrs. Walter stated that the reason that this was brought to the attention 
of the Chairman was that there was a lot of money involved. She also stated 
that she was going to call the Attorney General's Office for clarification. 
On August 17, 2010, the Board again convened in a posted meeting. The August 17, 2010 
meeting notice included the topic "F. Open Meeting Complaint." During the open session of the meeting, 
former Chairman Petraitis read the complaint and the amendment you proposed to the minutes. 
Discussion among the Board ensued, during which Mr. Petraitis stated that it was not his intent to harass 
or embarrass you. Mr. Petraitis stated, "I'm sorry if you were embarrassed or felt harassed" by discussion 
of the complaint, and further stated that it was his intent to impress upon the Board the obligation not to 
discuss Board business outside of meetings. Mr. Petraitis also clarified that while he contacted the 
District Attorney's office to discuss whether the memo was a violation of the Open Meeting Law, he did 
not file a formal complaint. On a motion by Mr. Petraitis, the Board voted to include Mr. Petraitis's 
explanation and apology in the Board's minutes. The Board adopted the amended executive session 
minutes proposed by you as an attachment to the original executive session minutes. 
On August 24, 2010, the Board responded in writing to your complaint. In the response on behalf 
of the Board, the former Chairman states "[m]y intent was not to embarrass or harass you, and I am sorry 
===PAGE 3===
if this didn't come through." The response further states that "Nile Board...discussed your memorandum 
and other issues relevant to that executive session in an open session on August 17th...so all aspects of 
this issue have now been deliberated in a public forum." On August 25, 2010, the Board filed a response 
with this office that included a copy of its August 24, 2010 response to you. 
On September 7, 2010, you requested that our office review the complaint and the Board's 
response. In your request for further review, you state that the response to you from the Board on August 
24, 2010 does not satisfy your request for a written apology "for violating the rights of a public officer 
and member of the North Brookfield Board of Selectmen." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law provides that public bodies may meet in executive session for ten 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. One purpose is "to discuss...complaints or charges brought against a public 
officer" ("Purpose One"). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The law requires that the public body provide the 
individual who will be discussed during an executive session with written notification at least 48 hours in 
advance. Id. The law also affords the individual who is the subject of the executive session a series of 
rights, including the right to request that the session be open; the right to be present; the right to have 
counsel or a representative present to advise the individual who is the subject of the executive session; the 
right to speak; and the right to cause an independent recording or transcription to be made at the 
individual's expense. G.L. c 30A, § 21(a)(1)(i-iv). 
On July 6, 2010 the Board, of which you are a member, convened in an executive session for the 
purpose of "heading] complaints against a public officer," as listed in the Board's public notice. It was 
only upon entering executive session that you learned that you were the public officer who was the 
subject of the executive session. You state, and the Board acknowledges, that you were given no 
notification of the executive session, much less the 48 hours written notification required by the Open 
Meeting Law. Accordingly, you had no opportunity to exercise the rights reserved to the person who is 
the subject of an executive session convened pursuant to Purpose One. 
In response to your complaint, the Board offers two defenses. First, the Board, through the former 
Chairman, contends that the "complaint" referenced in the meeting notice, and stated as the purpose for 
entering executive session, was not a formal complaint, and therefore did not constitute the type of 
complaint contemplated by Purpose One. Rather, the term "complaint" was used to describe an inquiry 
made to the District Attorney's Office by the former Chairman about the memo circulated by you to a 
fellow Board member outside of a posted meeting. 
The relevant question is not whether the inquiry to the District Attorney's Office constituted a 
formal complaint, but rather whether the Board thought that it was a complaint and chose to use its 
discretion to discuss it in executive session pursuant to Purpose One. Here, the Board clearly intended to 
enter into executive session to discuss the complaint, and used language in the meeting notice indicating 
its intent to do so under Purpose One. Once a public body decides to enter into executive session under 
Purpose One, the body has an obligation to uphold the rights of the individual who is the subject of that 
executive session. 
Second, the Board asserts that its intent in convening the executive session was not to discuss any 
particular individual, but rather, as stated by the former Chairman during the Board's August 17, 2010 
meeting, to "impress upon the Board that we couldn't have private memos, and that going forward all 
questions regarding bills and warrants would be addressed at the open meetings." During the August 17, 
2010 open session, at which your August 4, 2010 Open Meeting Law complaint was discussed, the 
former Chairman made this statement and apologized for any embarrassment that the executive session 
may have caused you. In the Board's response on August 24, 2010, the former Chairman also wrote that 
his "intent was not to embarrass or harass you, and I am sorry if this didn't come through." He went on to 
say that "[t]he Board must ensure compliance by all members with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
===PAGE 4===
Law going forward." 
We cannot think of a better way to conclude this discussion than with those words. The Board 
must ensure compliance by all members with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law going forward. 
That means the Board must carefully consider its reasoning whenever it contemplates entering executive 
session, and ensure that both the letter and the intent of the law are reflected in its actions. Individuals 
who are the subject of a complaint to be discussed in executive session must be given at least 48 hours 
advanced notice, and must be given the opportunity to take advantage of their rights under the Open 
Meeting Law'. However, here we are satisfied that the Board took steps to cure the violation by engaging 
in a deliberation during open session that included a discussion about your memo; a discussion about the 
inquiry to the District Attorney's Office; a reading of the executive session minutes and your suggested 
amendments to the executive session minutes, which were then adopted by the Board; a reading of the 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed against the Board; and a public apology. 
CONCLUSION 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law on July 6, 2010 by failing to notify the subject of an 
executive session under Purpose One, resulting in a denial of the rights afforded to you under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). However, we find that the Board took appropriate steps to cure the violation, and order 
immediate and future compliance with the provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25. 
With the issuance of this determination, we consider this matter closed. 
S• cerely, 
Britte McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
cc: 	 North Brookfield Board of Selectmen 
Compliance with the Open Meeting Law also means that the Board must avoid communication between 
or among a quorum of the Board outside of a posted meeting. 