===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 9, 2016 
OML 2016-171 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received a complaint from Kathleen Connolly, dated September 12, alleging 
that the Bourne Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 17, and the Board 
responded by letter dated September 9. In her complaint, Ms. Connolly alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
a meeting notice that provided insufficient detail about an executive session discussion. 
However, with respect to another topic listed on the notice, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the 
notices of a joint meeting between the Board and the Bourne Conservation Commission held on 
July 26. We reviewed the open session minutes, and, in camera, the executive session minutes 
from the July 26 meeting. We also reviewed a letter from the Board's legal counsel dated 
September 29.2 Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on November 17. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At issue is a joint meeting between the Board and the 
Bourne Conservation Commission held on July 26. Each public body posted its own notice of 
the meeting. Both meeting notices stated that the two public bodies would meet in executive 
session. The notice posted by the Conservation Commission stated that a joint meeting with the 
Board would take place and gave a general heading describing the purpose of the joint meeting 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
as follows: "Discussion of the Town's position regarding involvement in the current litigation of 
the Indian Trail Revetment Project, Sagamore Beach, MA." Under this heading, the notice 
stated, "Executive Session. To conduct strategy session with respect to litigation as an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigation position of the public body. The 
Chairman declares that such open discussion will have a detrimental effect on the litigating 
position of the public body." The second topic listed on the Conservation Commission's notice 
stated, "Commission members will be attending the open session of the Board of Selectmens 
[sic] meeting in order to participate in the Board of Selectmen's agenda item relating to the 
Indian Trail Revetment Project." 
The Board's notice listed an anticipated executive session, "[t]o conduct strategy session 
with respect to litigation and collective bargaining, contract negotiations for non-union 
personnel, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigation or negotiating 
position of the public body. Within this session, the Board will meet jointly with the 
Conservation Commission in respect to litigation. The Chairman declares that such open 
discussion will have a detrimental effect to the litigating and negotiating position of the public 
body." Also listed on the notice was a separate topic listed as, "Indian Trail Revetment—Legal 
case." 
The July 26 meeting took place as noticed. First, the Board met alone in executive 
session, without the Conservation Commission. Because the minutes of this executive session 
have not yet been released, we do not recount their contents in detail. We note that the Board 
discussed litigation matters unrelated to the joint meeting with the Conservation Commission, 
and the Board received updates on a labor negotiation. The Conservation Commission then 
joined the executive session, and the two public bodies discussed a litigation matter stemming 
from a Conservation Commission decision, including whether an easement should be granted. 
At the conclusion of the executive session, the Board and the Conservation Commission 
continued in open session and discussed "Indian Trail Revetment—Legal case." The 
complainant was present and urged the Board not to act on the matter during this meeting. 
Substantial discussion followed, and the Board ultimately voted to support the Conservation 
Commission's decision not to grant an easement. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-71; OML 
2011-44.3 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to enter into a closed, or executive, session 
for any of ten purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is "[t]o discuss strategy with 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public 
body should identify the litigation matter or bargaining unit to be discussed, if doing so will not 
compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97. While we 
generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
The complaint alleges that the Board's meeting notice was insufficiently detailed in two 
respects. First, the complaint argues that the notice should have identified the litigation matters 
and bargaining units to be discussed during the July 26 executive session. In its response, the 
Board failed to identify any reason why this information should not have been included on the 
notice. We conclude that the inclusion of this information would not have compromised the 
Board's litigating or negotiating position. Accordingly, it should have been included on the 
notice, and its omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-133. 
The complaint also alleges that the notice topic "Indian Trail Revetment- Legal case" is 
insufficiently detailed because it does not indicate that the Board would be voting on an 
easement as part of the discussion. On this count, we disagree. The notice stated the topic to be 
discussed, and, while additional detail on the notice may have been helpful to members of the 
public, the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics related 
to a project. See OML 2015-73. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this 
allegation. Nevertheless, we encourage the Board to include as much detail as possible on future 
meeting notices. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kathleen Connolly 
Bourne Board of Selectmen 
Bourne Conservation Commission 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 