===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 2,2014 
OML 2014-61 
George Pucci, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pucci: 
This office received a complaint from Maureen Murphy dated March 10, 2014, 
alleging that the Nantucket Historic District Commission (the Commission) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on or about February 26, 2014, and you responded to the complaint on behalf 
of the Commission by email on March 11, 2014. In her complaint, Ms. Murphy alleges 
that the Commission's February 20, 2014 amended meeting notice was not posted 48 hours 
before the meeting and that the original notice failed to conspicuously record the date and 
time that it was posted. 
We reviewed the February 26, 2014 complaint; your March 11, 2014 response, on 
behalf of the Commission; and the March 10, 2014 complaint filed with our office, 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the original and amended meeting notices, as 
well as the minutes from the Commission's February 20, 2014 meeting. Following our 
review, we find that, despite making a good faith effort to do so, the Commission failed to 
conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and time the notice for its February 20, 
2014 meeting was posted. The Commission did not violate the law in the other way 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission held a meeting at 1:00 P.M. on 
February 20, 2014. Before sending the notice of this meeting to the Clerk on February 18, 
2014, Commission Chair Linda Williams stamped a "Town Clerk Received" box on the 
top right hand corner of the notice, with the expectation that the date and time received 
would be completed by the Town Clerk. Upon receiving the notice, the Town Clerk then 
alleged. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
stamped the actual date and time that the notice was posted, 8:12 A.M. on February 18, 
2014, directly over this box, rendering it unintelligible. An updated notice that included 
several additional topics was posted at 2:04 P.M. that same day. This amended notice 
clearly indicated the date and time of its posting. According to the minutes from the 
Commission's February 20, 2014 meeting, none of the topics added to the amended notice 
were discussed during the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice 48 hours in advance 
of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require 
that the chair of a public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does 
need to list those topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 
2013-22.1 Additionally, the Attorney General's regulations require that "[t]he date and 
time that the notice is posted shall be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith." 940 
CMR 29.03(1 )(b). Failure to include this information may constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. OML 2013-44; OML 2013-9. 
In a prior decision issued by this office, we found that the Commission violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and 
time the notice for a Commission meeting was posted. OML 2014-9. At that time, the 
Commission pledged to conspicuously record the date and time that the original and any 
revised notices were posted. The notice for the Commission's February 18, 2014 meeting 
was posted only days after that determination was issued, and it appears that the 
Commission made a good faith effort to include the required information. However, 
because the date and time that the notice was posted are indecipherable, we find that the 
notice did not comply with the law's requirements. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We do not find 
this violation to be intentional; rather it was the result of an administrative error. Because 
the notice was timely posted and we are confident the Commission is aware of its 
obligations in this regard, as demonstrated by its good faith effort to comply, we order no 
additional relief. 
We do not find any evidence to support the complainant's other allegation, that the 
Commission discussed topics during its February 20, 2014 meeting that were not listed at 
least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Commission 
amended its meeting notice fewer than 48 hours before its February 20, 2014 meeting to 
add additional topics. While discussion of these matters during the meeting may have been 
inappropriate if they were anticipated more than 48 hours before the meeting, we need not 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
decide that question because none of the topics was actually discussed. Accordingly, we 
find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this way. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to conspicuously record thereon or therewith the date and time the 
notice for the Commission's February 20, 2014 meeting was posted. Because we are 
confident that the Commission is aware of the Law's requirements, and the Commission 
made a good faith effort to comply but made an unintentional administrative error, we 
order no additional relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Maureen Murphy 
Nantucket Historic District Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 See also OML FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at the Attorney General's website: 
May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic 
is proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide 
the public with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a 
public body may consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney 
General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial 
or may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 