===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 28, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 212 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mariem Marquetti, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
mmarquetti@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Marquetti: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on June 5, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 22, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 12. The complaint alleges that during 
the Committee’s March 24 meeting, the Committee discussed an anticipated topic that was not 
included on the notice for that meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes for the 
Committee’s March 24 meeting, a video recording of the March 24 meeting,
2 and additional 
documents provided by the Complainant.  
 
FACTS  
 
On March 22 at 5:13 p.m., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
March 24 at 6:00 p.m. The notice included the following eight headings in bold text: Executive 
Session, Public Input (on matters not on the agenda), Approval of Minutes, New Business, Old 
Business, Informational Items, Future Agenda Items (anticipated schedule), and Next Meeting. 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s March 24 meeting can be found at 
https://www.google.com/search?q=medfield+school+committee+march+24&rlz=1C1GCEA_enUS971US972&oq=
medfield+school+committee+march+24&aqs=chrome..69i57.8201j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF -
8#fpstate=ive&vld=cid:0c0a8853,vid:MagGEtlncH4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
All of the headings except for “Public Input” and “Informational Items” included additional 
information.   
 
At some point a memorandum dated March 22 from Superintendent Jeffrey Marsden was 
circulated to the Committee. The memorandum was entitled “Narrative for the School 
Committee Meeting, Thursday, March 24, 2022” and included the same topics as were listed on 
the March 24 meeting notice. For some of those topics, the memorandum included additional 
information. Under the heading “Informational Items,” the memorandum included the following: 
“School Rankings Presentation – Christine Power.”  
 
During the March 24 meeting, when introducing the notice topic “Informational Items” 
the Chair explained that she knew that the Superintendent and Christine Power, the Director of 
Instruction and Innovation at Medfield Public Schools, wanted to present on school district 
rankings and explained that the topic had been “floating around on all sorts of different social 
media platforms and is really making people enormously concerned . . . .” Thereafter, the 
Committee received and discussed a presentation regarding the school district’s rankings in 
Boston Magazine and US News and World Report. This discussion lasted for approximately 25 
minutes with the Director of Instruction and Innovation and the Superintendent presenting 
information and Committee members commenting and asking questions.  
 
DISCUSSION  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. When the chair 
of a public body delegates the responsibility for creating a meeting notice to another individual, 
any topics that individual anticipates will be discussed must be included on the meeting notice; 
however, such delegation does not relieve the public body of the responsibility for also including 
topics that the chair specifically anticipates 48 hours in advance will be discussed at a meeting. 
See OML 2020-164.
3  
 
Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2015-35. Finally, the Open Meeting Law defines deliberation broadly as any “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
  
 The complaint alleges that the topic of school district rankings was anticipated for 
discussion 48 hours prior to the March 24 meeting and that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing this topic without including it on the notice for the March 24 
meeting. In support of this allegation the complaint asserts that both the Chair and the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Superintendent anticipated the topic, and that the Superintendent has responsibility for creating 
the Committee’s meeting notices. The complaint also cites to the March 22 memorandum as 
evidence that the topic was anticipated.  
 
 The Committee does not assert that the specific topic of school district rankings was 
unanticipated, but rather that the notice topic “Informational Items” was sufficient to inform the 
public of the anticipated nature of the discussion. Specifically, the Committee states in its 
response that the notice topic “Informational Items” was sufficient to inform the public that 
“items of importance such as the school district’s rankings and ratings were to be discussed,” and 
“that the Committee planned to inform the public on items or occurrences relevant to Medfield’s 
public education, which includes accurate information and context on those rankings and 
ratings.” Finally, the Committee asserts that “[t]he presentation on school district rankings and 
ratings was informational in nature, as no deliberation or vote took place nor was required for 
this topic.”  
 
We find that the notice topic “Informational Items” was in no way sufficient to inform a 
reasonable member of the public that the Committee would receive and discuss a presentation 
regarding school district rankings. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing school district rankings during its March 24 meeting where that topic 
was anticipated but not included on the meeting notice.  
 
Additionally, we note that to the extent the Superintendent has sole or joint responsibility 
for creating the Committee’s meeting notices or adding items to meeting notices, in addition to 
any topics anticipated by the Chair, any topics anticipated by the Superintendent must be 
included on the Committee’s meeting notices. See OML 2020-152. 
 
 Next, we must determine whether the violation was intentional, as the Complainant 
urges. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. In support of the request that we find the violation to be intentional, the Complainant 
cites to an earlier determination (OML 2020-41) issued to the Committee on March 24, 2020. 
OML 2020-41 resolved a complaint in which the Complainant alleged, in part, that the 
Committee had included insufficient topics on a meeting notice, one of which was 
“Informational Items.” In OML 2020-41, we found that the notice topic “Informational Items” 
was sufficient where the Superintendent simply informed the Committee of his involvement with 
the Police Chief Search Committee, a high school cruise event, and an agreement with a 
company for a school messaging and alert application. Therefore, we find that OML 2020-41 
does not support a finding of an intentional violation in this instance. Additionally, we find no 
other evidence that the Committee acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law or with 
deliberate ignorance of the law. Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation here.   
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing an anticipated topic during its March 24 meeting without that topic having been 
included on the notice for the meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Anna Mae O’Shea Brooke, Chair, Medfield School Committee (via e- mail: 
scchair@email.medfield.net) 
 Jeffrey Marsden, Superintendent of Medfield Public Schools (via e-mail: 
jmarsden@email.medfield.net) 
Christine McCue Potts (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
