===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 4, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 39 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Timothy Houten, Esq. 
Office of the City Attorney 
200 Common Street, Suite 306 
Lawrence, MA 01840  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Houten: 
This office received a complaint from Homayoun Maali on October 27, 2021, alleging 
that the Lawrence City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on June 27, and the Council 
responded on July 22.1  The complaint alleges that on the day of the Council’s June 22 meeting, 
the Council changed the meeting location from in-person at City Hall to a virtual meeting held 
via Zoom, but remote access information was not provided to the public and several members of 
the public showed up in person for the meeting.  
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for review.  We also reviewed an affidavit from the 
Acting City Clerk, as well as the original and revised notices for the Council’s June 22 meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.   
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21.  Previously, the Open Meeting Law allowed 
members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely, provided that a quorum of 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
members of the public body, including the Chair, was physically present at the meeting location.  
The Governor’s March 12, 2020, Executive Order suspending certain provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, and then the June 16, 2021, Act Relative to Extending Certain Covid-19 
Provisions Adopted During the State of Emergency, suspended the requirement that a quorum of 
public body members be present at a physical meeting location, and also allowed public bodies 
to provide “adequate, alternative means” of public access to the deliberations of the public body 
rather than providing the public with in-person access to a meeting.  “Adequate, alternative 
means” may include, without limitation, providing public access through telephone, internet, or 
satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to 
clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real time.  If access to a meeting of a public 
body is to be provided through “adequate, alternative means,” the meeting notice must include 
clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely.   
A public body is permitted to change its meeting location, even less than 48 hours prior 
to a meeting, but it must make reasonable efforts to notify the public of the new location.  See 
OML 2020-102; OML 2020-95; OML 2017-152.  We have previously found that a public body 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it posted conspicuous and timely signage notifying 
that the meeting has been moved to a different room within the same building.  See OML 2020-
95.  Moreover, we have found that a public body did not violate the Open Meeting Law when 
changing its meeting location from one building in town to another building over a mile away, 
where the public body posted a revised meeting notice on the morning of the meeting updating 
the meeting location and placed a large sign at the original meeting location to redirect members 
of the public to the new location.  See OML 2017-152.   
Here, the Council had timely posted notice of its June 22 meeting; the meeting location 
was listed on the meeting notice as “Location: City Council Chambers, City Hall, 200 Common 
Street, Lawrence, MA.”  The Council learned on the day of its June 22 meeting that it did not 
have a quorum of members able to attend the meeting in person, and therefore the Council 
changed the meeting to a virtual meeting.2  At approximately 11:30 AM on June 22, the Council 
posted a revised meeting notice which changed the meeting location; the revised location was 
listed as “Location: This is a virtual meeting that is only accessible remotely. Please join the 
meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone using the access below.”  The meeting notice 
included links for a Facebook livestream, a YouTube livestream, and a Zoom meeting, as well as 
a telephone access number.  In addition to posting the revised meeting notice to the City’s 
website, which is the official notice posting location for meetings of public bodies in Lawrence, 
the Acting City Clerk also posted the revised notice to the City Council webpage and posted 
copies of the notice to each door to City Hall, where the meeting was originally scheduled to take 
place. 
 The Complainant asserts that he as well as multiple other members of the public showed 
up to City Hall for the June 22 meeting and found the building locked.  The complainant asserts 
that there was no notice of the change to the meeting; the Council disputes this point and asserts 
 
2 We take this opportunity to inform the Council that, in accordance with the Act Relative to Extending Certain 
Covid-19 Provisions Adopted During the State of Emergency, the Council could have proceeded with its in-person 
meeting despite not having a quorum of members physically present at the meeting location.  The requirement that a 
quorum of members be physically present in order for additional members to participate in the meeting remotely is 
currently suspended. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that the revised notice was posted to each door to City Hall and, moreover, that the Complainant 
accessed the June 22 meeting remotely and spoke at the meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to 
the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts.  See OML 2017-169; OML 2017-93.   
We acknowledge that changing a meeting location from in-person to virtual may require 
an attendee to return home or to another location with internet access in order to view the 
meeting, and therefore is different from moving a meeting from one room to another or even one 
building to another.  Nonetheless, on these facts, we find that the Council made reasonable 
efforts to advertise the change, including by posting a revised notice to the City’s website, which 
is its official notice posting location, as well as posting notice on all entrances to City Hall where 
the meeting was originally scheduled to take place.  Therefore, we find that the Council did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Homayoun Maali (via e-mail: ) 
 Lawrence City Council, c/o Marc Laplante, Council President  
(via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
