===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
February 18, 2022 
OML 2022 – 27 
VIA EMAIL 
Joseph Duquette, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Duquette: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Carmody on October 6, 2021, alleging 
that the Lanesborough Town Administrator Search Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on August 27, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
September 27.1 In his complaint, Mr. Carmody alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of 
a meeting via Facebook and that Committee members have not completed the required Open 
Meeting Law certifications. 
Following our review, we find that members of the Committee failed to complete Open 
Meeting Law certification forms. We find no violation with respect to the other allegation. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the Committee’s 
Open Meeting Law certification forms, which were provide to us by Attorney Duquette on 
January 27, 2022.2 Finally, we reviewed many of the Lanseborough Board of Selectmen’s 
meeting notices and minutes from the summer of 2021.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee did not deliberate via social media.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 
see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172.3 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
“quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.4  
 The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the 
general public, including through social media. See OML 2017-111. However, if a member of a 
public body were to communicate directly with a quorum of the public body on a matter within 
the public body’s jurisdiction through social media, such communication may violate the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2017-192. Posting in a Facebook group that includes a quorum of 
members of a public body is not in and of itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2018-145, OML 2017-111. However, public body members should use particular care to avoid 
deliberation when writing a post that may be visible to other members of the public body, 
especially in a “closed” Facebook group and in particular if the closed group is relatively small. 
See OML 2018-153. In order to differentiate between social media posts that are directed to the 
public and those that are directed to other members of the public body, we must examine the 
communicator’s intent. See OML 2017-111; OML 2015-15. 
 Mr. Carmody alleges that the Committee impermissibly deliberated outside of public 
meeting when Committee Member Kristen Tool posted in a closed Facebook group called 
“Lanesborough, MA: Our Hometown.” Although the Facebook group is closed, meaning it 
requires an administrator’s approval to join, the group has more than one thousand members.  
We note the Town of Lanesborough has a population of approximately three thousand residents. 
On August 23, a member of the public shared an iBerkshires news article in the group entitled 
“Lanesborough Town Administrator Search Panel Gets Unexpected Feedback.” Member Tool 
commented on the post to clarify that the Committee planned to release summarized results of 
the Committee’s community survey. Several members of the public replied to Member Tool’s 
comment, sharing differing perspectives regarding what information should be released from the 
results of the survey. Member Tool responded to the other commentors four times to reiterate 
and explain the Committee’s approach.  
 Our office has advised public body members that, while they may use social media to 
communicate with their constituents on matters of public concern, those members should be 
cautious to avoid communicating with other public body members via social media. See OML 
2018-145. In this case, we find no evidence that the other members of the Committee 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 The Committee was a six-member public body, therefore a quorum was four members. The Committee has since 
disbanded and no longer meets.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
commented on Member Tool’s posts, and, indeed, it is not evident that the other members even 
read Member Tool’s comments in the Facebook group. Although these posts by Member Tool 
related to Committee business, the posts were clearly directed to members of the public, as part 
of a public dialogue within the large Facebook group. See OML 2020-139 (finding no violation 
where a public body member discussed a matter of public body business with members of the 
public in a large town Facebook group.) In addition, no other members of the Committee 
responded. Therefore, we find that these posts did not constitute deliberation and did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.  
2. Members of the Committee failed to complete Open Meeting Law certification forms.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 .... The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h) (emphasis added). The Open Meeting Law 
regulations further define the educational materials that must be provided, including a copy of 
each Open Meeting Law determination issued to the public body within the last five years in 
which our office found a violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). Finally, the regulations clarify that “[a]n 
individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on 
which he or she serves[,]” and that public body members “must sign a new certification upon 
reelection or reappointment to the public body.” 940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5). 
 Here, we find that several Committee members violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to complete Open Meeting Law certification forms as prescribed by the Open Meeting Law. 
Some members had previously signed the Open Meeting Law certification form in their capacity 
as members of a different public body or informally acknowledged receipt of Open Meeting Law 
materials, indicating that they were aware of the Open Meeting Law. However, since several 
members failed to timely sign the required certification form in their capacity as a member the 
Committee, we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that members of the Committee failed to complete 
Open Meeting Law certification forms as required by the Open Meeting Law. As the Committee 
has since disbanded, we order no further remedial action, but we remind the Committee members 
of their obligations in the event the Committee is reestablished or the Committee members serve 
on other public bodies in the future.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Thomas Carmody (via e-mail: ) 
 Lanesborough Town Administrator Search Committee c/o Lanesborough Town Clerk 
 (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
