===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 24, 2019 
OML 2019-40
Joseph Macy, Esq.
Fall River Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Macy:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 4, alleging that 
the Fall River City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about July 16, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Council, in a letter dated July 30. In his 
complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that, during its July 12 meeting, the Council failed to review 
several open meeting law complaints prior to voting to refer them to legal counsel and 
reviewed other complaints that were filed with various subcommittees of the Council.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and video­
recording of the Council’s July 12 meeting.2 We find that the Council did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.
The complaint alleges that the Council failed to review open meeting law complaints 
prior to voting to delegate legal counsel to send the responses on its behalf. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, a public body must review the complaints to ascertain the time, date, place, and 
circumstances that constitute the alleged violation. 940 CMR 29.05(4). Unless an extension 
has been granted by the Attorney General, the public body must review the complaint’s 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send the Attorney General a copy of the
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video-recording is available at http://frgtv.fredtv.us/.

===PAGE 2===
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. Id. Nothing in the regulations 
prevents a public body, once it has reviewed a complaint during a meeting, from delegating its 
response to an individual, such as legal counsel. See OML 2017-148.3 That the Council may 
have chosen to refer the complaint rather than discuss its substance is the Council’s 
prerogative. Id. Accordingly, we find no violation.
With respect to the Council’s review of open meeting law complaints filed with 
committees of the Council, we also find no violation. The purpose behind the Open Meeting 
Law regulations’ requirement that a public body review a complaint prior to sending a 
response is to ensure that its members are aware of the complaint and the public body’s 
response. 940 CMR 29.05(4). In this instance, where all of the members of the committees 
(specifically, the Committee on Public Works and Transportation and the Committee on 
Economic Development and Tourism) are also members of the full Council and were present 
for the meeting on July 12, that purpose was served when the full Council reviewed the 
complaints. Although public bodies generally must meet to review complaints filed against 
them, on these facts we find no violation where the full Council reviewed the complaints filed 
with its committees.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Fall River City Council
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2
