===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 26, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 170 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Adam Lamontagne 
Town Administrator 
Town of Templeton 
alamontagne@TempletonMA.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Lamontagne:  
 
This office received two complaints from Robert May on April 21, 2022, alleging that the 
Templeton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 21, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by separate letters dated April 7.1  The first complaint alleges that the Board posted an 
insufficiently specific notice for its March 9 meeting and that the Board failed to provide to the 
public prior to or during the March 9 meeting a letter that was discussed during the meeting.  The 
second complaint contains the same allegations as the first complaint and also alleges that the 
minutes of the March 9 meeting were inaccurate.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints filed with the Board, the Board’s 
responses, and the complaints filed with our office requesting our review.  We also reviewed the 
notice for the Board’s March 9 meeting, the original and amended minutes of the March 9 
meeting, and a video of the March 9 meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 
9.  The notice included, among other matters, the topic “5. New Business,” and below that 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022. 
2 A video of the March 9 meeting is available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=olRTtA6133w. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
several subtopics including “e) Action RE: Decision on Lion’s Club Events as Town Sponsored 
Events.”   
 
The Board convened the meeting on March 9 as scheduled.  After discussing other 
matters, Board Chair Michael Currie welcomed Sue Larrabee of the Lions Club and held up a 
letter he had received from her.  Ms. Larrabee stated that when the Lions Club began discussions 
with the Town about holding the Lions Club annual Easter egg hunt, she learned there was a new 
process requiring an application for use of town property as well as a permit and fee requirement 
for nonprofit organizations of $25 per day.  Ms. Larrabee stated that all Lions Club fundraising 
proceeds go directly back to the community in the form of scholarships, event sponsorships, and 
other donations, and therefore the cost of $25 per day—especially for lengthier events like an 
annual tree sale—would directly detract from contributions to the community and would be cost-
prohibitive.  Therefore, Ms. Larrabee requested that the Town consider waiving the fee for Lions 
Club-sponsored events.   
 
Chair Currie then recognized Assistant Town Administrator Holly Young to speak.  Ms. 
Young stated that she recommended the Town’s Community Services Office sponsor the Lions 
Club events as town-sponsored events, which would allow waiving the fees, since the events are 
for the Town and the Town’s children in particular.  Chair Currie suggested that the policy be 
revisited to distinguish “mission-driven” events held for the benefit of the Town from other 
private or profit-generating events like private weddings or concerts, but not necessarily 
exempting certain organizations from the town use policy altogether.  Ultimately, the Board 
decided to continue broader policy changes at future meetings, and in the meantime to consider 
at its next meeting waiving the fee for the upcoming Lions Club Easter egg hunt. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Notice for the Board’s March 9 Meeting Was Sufficiently Specific.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and every 
notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient 
specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 
2011-44.3  A meeting notice need not include each and every detail about a topic to satisfy the 
Open Meeting Law's specificity requirement.  See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132. 
  
The complaints allege that the notice for the Board’s March 9 meeting was insufficiently 
specific with regard to the topic “Action RE: Decision on Lion’s Club Events as Town 
Sponsored Events.”  When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly 
insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if 
the notice was sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  Here, that 
the Board discussed a request from the Lions Club to waive the permit fee for events and a 
corresponding proposal from Ms. Young to treat Lions Club events as town-sponsored events to 
eliminate the need for a permit application and fee payment.  Therefore, we conclude that the 
topic as listed on the meeting notice reasonably described the topic that was anticipated for 
discussion, and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. The Open Meeting Law Does Not Require That Public Bodies Distribute Copies 
of Documents Used During a Meeting. 
 
Next, both complaints allege that the letter from the Lions Club was not included as a 
supporting document prior to the March 9 meeting, nor was it made available to the public 
during the meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that all documents and other exhibits used 
by a public body at an open or executive session meeting “shall, along with the minutes, be part 
of the official record of the session.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d).  Furthermore, all documents and 
exhibits used during an open meeting “shall be public records in their entirety and not exempt 
from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions” to the public records law, although certain 
material may be exempt from disclosure to the public as personnel information.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(e).  Although documents used by a public body during an open meeting must be provided in 
response to a public records request, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the 
public body affirmatively provide copies of those documents to persons in attendance at a 
meeting.  See OML 2016-94; OML 2015-199.  If the documents are requested by an attendee 
during the meeting, the public body's response is governed by the Public Records Law, which 
requires only that the public body respond to the request within ten days. See G.L. c. 66, § 10(a-
b); 950 CMR 32.06(2); OML 2015-199. 
 
Because the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to provide copies of 
documents to be used during a meeting to meeting attendees, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law when the letter from the Lions Club was not made available to the 
public prior to or during the March 9 meeting. 
 
III. We Find No Violation With Regard to the Sufficiency of the Meeting Minutes as 
the Minutes Were Still in Draft Form at the Time the Complaint Was Filed. 
 
Finally, the second complaint alleges that the minutes of the March 9 meeting were 
inaccurate because they did not identify a representative from the Lions Club who spoke during 
the meeting nor did the minutes list a letter that was present and discussed during the meeting.   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).    
 
However, at the time this complaint was filed with the Board on March 21, the minutes of 
the March 9 meeting were still in unapproved draft form.  Under the Open Meeting Law, a 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
public body is responsible for the sufficiency of final, approved minutes as it may revise draft 
minutes at any point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail.  See OML 2018-
20.  Accordingly, because the minutes were in draft form at the time of this complaint, we find 
no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-13; OML 2014-7.  Although the Board 
subsequently approved the minutes on March 23 without further change, the Board amended the 
minutes on April 6 to add a statement that the Board received a presentation from Sue Larrabee, 
the Lions Club representative, and to list the letter from the Lions Club as a document used 
during the meeting.  We commend the Board for taking these actions in response to the 
Complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Robert May (via e-mail: ) 
Templeton Select Board (via e-mail: hyoung@TempletonMA.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
