===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 6, 2016 
OML 2016 - 89 
Cherry Karlson, Chair 
Wayland Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Karlson: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated April 20, alleging that the 
Wayland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 26, and the Board responded 
by letter dated March 15. In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the Board convened in 
executive session without a proper statutory puipose. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, unredacted 
minutes of the Board's February 1 executive session meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on February 1. The notice of this 
meeting listed, among several other topics, the following: 
Enter in Executive Session pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 3OA, 
Section 21(a)(3), to Discuss Strategy with Respect to Pending Actions regarding 150 
Main Street LLC v. Zoning Board of Appeals, Nelson v. Conservation Commission, 
Bernstein, et al v. Planning Board, et al, Boelter, et cd v. Board of Selectmen, Moss, et al, 
v. Lingleys and Town, Frishman v. Lanza, et al, and West Beit Olam Corporation v. 
Board of Assessors [. ] 
The Board held its February 1 meeting as planned. During the meeting, the chair made a 
motion to enter executive session, quoting the above description. The vote to enter into the 
' Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in the letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
executive session was unanimous. The chair stated that a public discussion of the listed matters 
would have a detrimental effect on the bargaining, litigating, or negotiating position of the Town 
of Wayland. The minutes of the February 1 executive session have been released, though certain 
sentences have been redacted pursuant to attorney-client privilege.2 Because the redacted 
minutes remain confidential, we do not recount their contents here. We note, however, that the 
Board met with Town Counsel Mark Lanza to hear a report from him on the progress of the 
seven cases mentioned above.3 In three cases—150 Main Street v. Zoning Board of Appeals, 
Nelson v. Conservation Commission, and West Beit Olam Corporation v. Board of Assessors— 
neither the Board nor the Town of Wayland was named as a party. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). However, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies 
to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside the public view for any of ten 
specific purposes, G.L, c. 30A, § 21(a). One appropriate pmpose for an executive session is 
"[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (Purpose 3). To convene an executive session under 
Purpose 3, a public body must have a bargaining or litigating position to protect. See OML 
2012-116.4 
At issue is whether the Board properly entered executive session using Purpose 3, even 
though it was not, itself, a party in several of the cases discussed during the executive session. A 
public body that is not a named party in litigation may still have a litigating position to protect 
where such body undertakes legal or financial responsibilities in the litigation and is "an active 
participant in litigation strategy." See OML 2011-47. Here, under the Town Code of the Town 
of Wayland, the Board has "full authority as agents of the Town to employ counsel to 
commence, prosecute and defend suits in the name of the Town[.]" Further, as a matter of Town 
policy, the Town Counsel makes a semi-annual report to the Board on pending litigation matters, 
as was done during the February 1 meeting. Based on this update, the Board could vote to 
suspend the payment of funds for a particular litigation matter. If such a discussion were held in 
open session, opposing parties could be placed on notice of the Board's intention to discontinue 
litigating a particular suit. This, in turn, could place the Town at a disadvantage in its litigating 
position. We conclude that the Open Meeting Law does not require such a result. See OML 
2 "When the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory 
materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or I or 
more of the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion thereof, 
from disclosure." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
3 Attorney Lanza represents the Zoning Board of Appeals, Conservation Commission, and Board of Assessors in 
their respective actions. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openineeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2014-141. Therefore, we find that it was appropriate for the Board to enter executive session 
during its February 1 meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 We note that the Superior Court (Salinger, J.) has held that it was improper for the Board to convene in executive 
session to discuss a lawsuit to which it was not a named party where the Board had already determined that it would 
not seek to press its own position in litigation. See Collins v. Wayland Board of Selectmen. 2013 WL 2456337 
(Mass. Super.) However, in Collins, the court also stated that a public body may convene in executive session to 
discuss potential positions with respect to ongoing litigation where the public body is not a named party. Collins. 
2013 WL 2456337, at *3. Thus, where a public body has not yet discontinued its litigating position with respect to a 
particular matter, even if that body is not a named party in the underlying case, such discussion is appropriate for a 
Purpose 3 executive session. Here, the Board was, in part, evaluating the viability of ongoing lawsuits and 
determining whether to continue funding their defense. Because the Board had not determined, prior to the February 
I meeting, that it would cease supporting the litigation, we conclude that the Board still had a litigating position to 
protect in these matters. Therefore, this determination is fully consistent with the Collins decision. 
3 