===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www . mass . gov/ago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
August 1, 2012 
OML 2012 - 72 
Noel R. Abbott, Chair 
Rowe Board of Selectmen 
321 Zoar Road 
P.O. Box 462 
Rowe, MA 01367 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Rowe Board of Selectmen 
Dear Chair Abbott: 
This office received three complaints from Lisa Danek-Burke, on or about March 20, 
2012 and July 3, 2012, alleging that the Rowe Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints allege that the Board deliberated on 
"public business outside of an open public meeting through oral communication at a Rowe 
School Committee meeting" on December 20, 2011; January 10, 2012; and April 10, 2012. The 
complaints were filed with the Board on or about January 18, 2012; February 6, 2012; and April 
30, 2012. The Board responded to the complaints by letter dated February 15, 2012 and June 22, 
2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination we reviewed the January 18, 2012 and February 6, 2012 complaints 
filed with the Board; the Board's February 15, 2012 response; and the March 20, 2012 
complaints filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of the Rowe School 
Committee's December 20, 2011; January 10, 2012; and April 10, 2012 meetings. 
FACTS 
The Rowe Board of Selectmen is a three-member public body, and includes Chair Noel 
Abbott1  and Selectman Paul McLatchy. Selectman McLatchy also serves as the minutes taker 
for the Rowe School Committee. On December 20, 2011, the School Committee met in open 
session. Board Chair Abbott attended as an audience member. Selectman McLatchy attended as 
the School Committee's minutes taker. During the meeting, the Chair of the School Committee 
For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
explained that the Board would be removing the pay phone at the Town Hall because it was 
costing the Town approximately $1,000 a year. The Chair noted that there was another pay 
phone at the school that could be removed as well. The minutes of the meeting state that "Paul 
McLatchy and Noel Abbott both provided background information and spoke in favor of 	 . 
investigating removing the phone or finding a more cost effective alternative. Chair Loomis 
asked the Principal to work with Noel Abbott regarding the school payphone." 
On January 10, 2012, the School Committee met again in open session. Board Chair 
Abbott attended as an audience member. Selectman McLatchy attended as the School 
Committee's minutes taker. During the meeting, the School Committee Chair recognized Board 
Chair Abbott, who addressed the School Committee and provided a report on the three-district 
agreement initiated by the Mohawk School District and the need for legal representation to 
advise the Town. It does not appear from the minutes that Selectman McLatchy participated in 
the discussion that followed, although he was present to take the meeting minutes. 
On April 10, 2012, the School Committee met in open session. Board Chair Abbott 
attended as an audience member. Selectman McLatchy attended as the School Committee's 
minutes taker. During the meeting, the School Committee Chair recognized Board Chair Abbott, 
who addressed the School Committee regarding several topics, including the school pay phone 
and paving spaces. He additionally addressed other topics discussed by the School Committee, 
including a school building window project. During a discussion about splitting budget articles, 
Selectman McLatchy addressed the School Committee in his role as a Selectman. According to 
the minutes, Chair Abbott did not participate in that discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public," subject to a narrow list of exceptions that can be conducted in executive session. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a). The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not 
include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "meeting" is 
a "deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction," 
however a meeting does not include the "attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting 
of another public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, 
so long as the visiting members communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those 
matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate." Id. 
At the December 20, 2011 meeting, the School Committee met in open session with 
Board Chair Abbott attending as a member of the audience and Selectman McLatchy 
participating as the Committee's minutes taker. When the School Committee reached the topic 
of the pay phone, both Chair Abbott and Selectman McLatchy "spoke in favor of investigating 
removing the phone or finding a more cost effective alternative." It does not appear from the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
minutes that the two Board members communicated with each other during the meeting 
regarding the pay phone issue, thus there was no deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Because their communication was only by open participation in the 
meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body, and they did not deliberate, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during this meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Similarly, we find that there was no deliberation by the Board at the School Committee's 
January 10, 2012 meeting. At that meeting, the School Committee Chair recognized Board 
Chair Abbott, who provided a report on the three-district agreement initiated by the Mohawk 
School District and the need for legal representation to advise the Town. Selectman McLatchy 
did not participate in the discussion that followed, and was present only to take meeting minutes. 
Because Selectman McLatchy did not participate in the discussion, there was no communication 
between and among a quorum of the Board, and thus no deliberation for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The School Committee's April 10, 2012 meeting was conducted in a similar manner. 
Chair Abbott attended the School Committee as a member of the Board, and participated in a 
few discussion topics. Selectmen McLatchy attended the meeting in his role as the minutes 
taker. He did not participate in any discussions with Chair Abbott. He did address the School 
Committee in his role as a Selectman regarding one topic, however Chair Abbott did not 
participate in that discussion. Therefore, we find that no communication between or among a 
quorum of the Board occurred, and there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate that Open Meeting Law at either its December 20, 
2011; January 10, 2012; or April 10, 2012 meetings. We now consider this matter closed. 
Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Lisa Danek-Burke 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 