===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 5, 2019 
OML 2019-141
John McNaught, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Malden 
110 Pleasant Street 
Malden, MA 02148
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney McNaught:
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey, on February 22, 2019, alleging 
that the Malden Hospital Site Development Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
December 20, 2018, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 24, 
2019. In his complaint, Mr. DeLacey alleged that the Committee discussed topics at a December 
18, 2018, meeting that it failed to list with sufficient specificity on its meeting notice.1
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficiently detailed meeting notice item. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
complaint, the Committee’s response and the Complainant’s request for further review, including 
supplemental information submitted on February 21, 2019, and March 10, 2019. We reviewed 
both the meeting minutes and the video of the December 18, 2018, meeting of the Committee. In 
addition, we spoke with you by phone on September 16, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The meeting notice for the December 18, 2018, meeting of 
the Committee included under its “Business” section only one item: “The committee will meet to 
continue discussion about Citizen Engagement and Hospital Site Development.”
1 We decline to review any allegations made in the request for further review that were not included in the original 
complaint. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will seek to address only allegations made 
in the OML complaint in order to give a public body a chance to address those allegations. See OML 2019-85; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee).

===PAGE 2===
At the meeting, which lasted 25 minutes, the Chair almost immediately introduced a 
representative from a group called Friends of Fellsmere Heights who “wanted to update us on 
'some of the work that your group has done with the Boston Architectural College.” The 
representative went on to cover a variety of topics, including the status of the partnership with 
the Boston Architectural College, a mission statement for the project, collaboration with 
Medford, and funding opportunities for the project. The Friends of Fellsmere Heights’ 
representative seemed to lead the discussion during the majority of the meeting with the 
members of the Committee asking questions and responding to the topics presented.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, a public body must post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The listing of topics shall have sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.2 Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from its 
consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the 
discussion that occurred. See OML 2019-36; OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38.
Here, the Committee’s discussion of several matters all stemmed from the information 
presented by Friends of Fellsmere Heights. The Committee asserts that these updates, which 
were the centerpiece of the meeting, were not anticipated by the Chair. We are not persuaded by 
the Committee’s assertion that the single topic “The committee will meet to continue discussion 
about Citizen Engagement and Hospital Site Development” was intended to serve as a “public 
comment period,” because there was no open comment period during the meeting. Instead, the 
Chair started the meeting by opening the floor for the Friends of Fellsmere Heights’ updates, 
which comprised the rest of the meeting. Even if the specific content of the presentation by 
Friends of Fellsmere Heights was unanticipated, the meeting notice should have specified that 
Friends of Fellsmere Heights would be presenting an update, including, to the extent known, the 
nature of that update. See OML 2018-84; OML 2019-77.
We find that the item in question was not sufficiently specific to allow a reasonable 
member of the public to understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. The 
item, “[t]he committee will meet to continue discussion about Citizen Engagement and Hospital 
Site Development,” is merely a vague restatement of the purpose for with the Committee was 
formed: “to hear public input regarding the possibilities of the development of the closed Malden 
Hospital site.” This topic did not give the public any specific information about what the 
Committee would be discussing. For these reasons, we find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice.
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice item. We order the Committee’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brian  DeLacey
Malden Hospital Site Development Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
