===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 28, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 55 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary Howayeck, Esq.  
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
This office received a complaint from Colin Dias on July 27, 2020, alleging that the Fall 
River Licensing Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 26, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated July 24, after an extension of time granted by our office.1 In his 
complaint, Mr. Dias alleges that the Board 1) added “reasonably anticipated” topics to the 
meeting notice for the Board’s June 17 meeting within 48 hours of the meeting, and 2) failed to 
provide adequate seating to attendees at the Board’s June 17 meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a video recording 
of the Board’s June 17 meeting and the three meeting notices for the June 17 meeting. We 
emailed with Attorney Howayeck on several occasions in January, February, and March 2021. 
Finally, we spoke by phone with the Board’s Clerk on March 8, 2021 and Board’s Chair on April 
9, 2021.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that he Board 1) failed to take votes by roll call at the Board’s June 17 meeting, 2) 
failed to provide real time, live access to the public for Board’s June 17 meeting, and 5) failed to provide 
instructions for the public to view the real time, live access to the Board’s June 17 meeting. These allegations relate 
to the requirements for remote participation and remote meetings under Governor Baker’s Executive Order. See 
OML 2020-156. As the Board’s June 17 meeting took place entirely in-person, with the public allowed to attend in-
person, we decline to review these allegations since the requirements for remote meetings do not apply.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 Fall River’s official notice posting location is the City’s website. On Friday, June 12, 
around 10:00 AM, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Wednesday, June 17 at 
5:30 PM. This notice included several topics, including: “Phase II – Food/ Alcohol Outdoor 
Table Service” under which were listed eight restaurants seeking the Board’s permission to 
increase their outdoor dining options.  
 On June 15 at approximately 3:00 PM, the Board posted an amended notice which added 
three restaurants to the list of those seeking the Board’s approval.  
 On June 17 around 2:15 PM, the Board posted a second amended notice which added two 
restaurants to the list of those seeking approval. The new notice also included two new topics 
under Old Business/New Business, “Vote to allow Chair and Mayor to approve request for the 
Phase II outdoor seating w/ alcohol and food” and “Approve outdoor seating form.”  
DISCUSSION 
 The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by adding 
additional “reasonably anticipated” topics to the Board’s meeting notice within 48 hours of the 
June 17 meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting 
“at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and 
that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public 
body may amend the notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a previously unanticipated topic 
comes to the Chair’s attention. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29; OML 2019-131.3 The 
first notice and the first amended notice were both posted more than 48 hours in advance of the 
June 17 meeting; therefore, the addition of the three restaurants to the first amended notice did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We must also examine the Board’s second amended notice. On the morning of the 
Board’s June 17 meeting, the Board’s Clerk received a request from the Mayor to add two more 
restaurants’ outdoor seating applications to the Board’s meeting notice. The Clerk called the 
Chair and relayed the request, along with a proposal for a new procedure for approval of similar 
requests in between the Board’s monthly meetings. Under the new procedure, City staff would 
evaluate new restaurant applications for safety concerns using a form and then the Mayor or the 
Chair could individually approve restaurant applications. The Board’s Clerk shares responsibility 
for creating the Board’s meeting notices with the Chair. Where the chair delegates to another 
person responsibility for creating the meeting notice, we look to what that person anticipates will 
be discussed 48 hours before the meeting. See OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190. Here, as the 
Clerk shared responsibility with the Chair for creating the notice for the June 17 meeting, we 
therefore look to what both the Chair and the Clerk anticipated would be discussed at the June 17 
meeting. The Board’s Clerk assured us that all items that were added in the second amendment 
of the notice only came to her attention within 48 hours of the June 17 meeting. Nor did the 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Chair anticipate that these topics would be discussed at the June 17 meeting prior to the Clerk’s 
call on the morning of the meeting.  
 As the two additional restaurants and two application procedure topics were not 
anticipated by the Chair or the Clerk until less than 48 hours before the meeting, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by adding those topics to the second amended 
agenda which was posted at 2:15 p.m. on the day of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-
87. In fact, although the Board could have discussed the unanticipated topics without adding 
them to the meeting notice at all, the Board followed our recommended practice of amending its 
meeting notice to include topics that arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members 
of the public were given advance notice of items to be discussed. See OML 2020-122.  
 Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide sufficient seating for 
members of the public who attended the Board’s June 17 meeting. The Open Meeting Law states 
that all meetings of a public body must be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must 
include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-165; OML 2017-135. We find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because all individuals in attendance had 
sufficient access to the June 17 meeting. See OML 2014-3. A video recording of the meeting, 
which took place in a large atrium to accommodate social distancing guidelines due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, shows that there was ample space for members of the public to enter the 
atrium and keep six feet of distance between themselves. In the video, there appear to be 
approximately enough chairs for all attendees, though a few members of the public stood near 
the doors. We find no evidence that any members of the public were prevented from attending 
the meeting, or were unable to see and hear the discussions at the meeting. See 2019-157; OML 
2014-11. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
 Fall River Licensing Board, c/o Kerri Ayash, Licensing Clerk  
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 