===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 24, 2018 
OML 2018-9 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on October 20 alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 1; and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated October 18. The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated by email 
outside of a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Board's July 11 
meeting; the open session minutes from the Board's October 17 meeting; and the email 
correspondences between the Board generated between June 28 and September 6. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Board exchanged numerous emails between June 28 and 
September 6. Although the emails were generally initiated by one or two Board members, each 
email was ultimately shared with the entire Board. 
A majority of the emails (June 28, July 6, July 11, July 26, July 31, August 2) discussed 
topics to be placed on notices, updating notices, the scheduling of meetings, or requested 
documents or other information in order to prepare for upcoming meetings. Other emails (July 
1, August 3) provided updates on matters that had either been discussed or would be discussed 
by the Board. Still other emails (June 29, July 12, July 17, July 18, July 27, August 25, 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
September 6) discussed the overall operation of the Board, including the drafting of meeting 
minutes, and the responsibilities of the chair. All of these emails were disclosed during the 
Board's October 17 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated by email numerous times outside of a 
properly posted meeting. The Board contends that certain of the emails do not constitute 
deliberation because they concern scheduling but acknowledges that several emails do constitute 
communications between a quorum of the Board. We find that emails exchanged between a 
quorum of the Board on June 29, July 1, July 12, July 17, July 18, July 27, August 3, August 25, 
and September 6 contain improper deliberations because they contained updates on matters that 
had previously been discussed by the Board and were still pending before it, contained matters to 
be discussed by the Board, or discussed the Board's overall operation, including discussions 
concerning the leadership of the Board which is a matter of public business that should be 
reserved for an open meeting. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108.2 We remind the Board that 
the expression of an opinion of by one public body member on matters within the body's 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. We find that the remaining 
emails either contained scheduling information, which is explicitly exempt from the definition of 
deliberation under the law, or requested documents to be discussed at a meeting, which is 
permissible under the law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2017-85; OML 2017-28; OML 2015-69. 
The complainant suggests that there are other undiscovered email communications 
between Board members and requests that this office conduct a broader review. We do not 
conduct broad audits of a public body and thus limit our review to the evidence presented to us in 
the complaint. See OML 2013-180. Nevertheless, we recognize that it is sometimes difficult for 
public body members to determine whether communication constitutes deliberation under the 
Open Meeting Law. Thus our office cautions public bodies on the use of electronic 
communications. See OML 2014-80; OML 2017-88. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email between June 29 and September 6. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We commend the Board for publicly disclosing 
all of the emails at its October 17 meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 