===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 30, 2017 
OML 2017 - 18 
Dighton Board of Selectmen 
c/o Dean Cronin, Chair 
979 Somerset Avenue 
Dighton, MA 02715 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cronin: 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Andrade on January 2, 2017 
alleging that the Dighton Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
November 30, and Board Administrative Assistant Karin Brady responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by email dated December 22. In his complaint, Mr. Andrade alleges that the 
Board held an improper emergency meeting on November 30. Additionally, Mr. 
Andrade alleges that the Board posted an insufficiently detailed meeting notice for that 
meeting, and that the Board should have met in executive session to discuss the 
reputation and character of the Town's fire chief. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a meeting notice that provided insufficient detail about the emergency meeting 
discussion. We find no evidence, however, that the Board violated the law in the other 
ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from the 
Board's November 30 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2 
We find the facts as follows. Antoine Roderick was fire chief in the Town of 
Dighton. On November 29, he was arraigned in Taunton District Court for 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFq2EXBQYQs. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
misappropriation of funds. Around 1:30 p.m. on November 29, the Chair received a 
telephone call from a reporter who advised him that Mr. Roderick had been arraigned that 
morning on criminal charges. At that time, two Board members were out of town at a 
meeting in Mansfield. Prior to this, the Board was not aware of any investigation of Mr. 
Roderick by the Bristol County District Attorney's Office. 
Later that afternoon, the Board posted notice of an emergency meeting scheduled 
for 11 a.m. on November 30 to discuss a "personnel matter." The notice was then 
amended thirty minutes before the November 30 meeting to "discuss personnel matter 
regarding Fire Chief." The Board attempted to contact Mr. Roderick several times to 
advise him of the meeting and to request his presence at the meeting. During the 
meeting, the Board suspended Mr. Roderick without pay. The Board did not enter into 
executive session. 
Mr. Andrade then filed this Open Meeting Law complaint on November 30. 
Upon receiving this complaint, the Board did not respond until December 22, and only 
after prompting by Mr. Andrade. The Board did not acknowledge the complaint until its 
December 28 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Providing Insufficient Detail in 
its Meeting Notice but did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Holding an 
Emergency Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and 
place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). In 
case of an emergency, the public body should post notice of the meeting as soon as 
reasonably possible. Id. An "emergency" is defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected 
occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies with the public body. 
See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.3 
The complaint alleges that the Board held an improper emergency meeting on 
November 30 and that the topic on the emergency meeting notice lacked sufficient detail. 
We find that the topic as listed on the original notice should have included that the 
meeting was to discuss a personnel matter regarding the Fire Chief. See OML 2016-90; 
OML 2011-11. Even though the revised notice did include reference to the "Fire Chief," 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the Board knew on November 29 that it would be specifically discussing Mr. Roderick 
during the emergency meeting. Therefore, it should have included reference to him in its 
November 29 notice. Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law. 
However, we find that the Board did provide a valid justification for its November 
30 emergency meeting. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are 
unanticipated and require an immediate response to, for example, protect public safety or 
health. See OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45. The Board did not become aware of the 
allegations against Mr. Roderick until the afternoon of November 29. At that time, two 
Board members were out of town at a meeting in Mansfield. One hour after learning of 
the charges filed against Mr. Roderick, the Board posted notice for an emergency 
meeting the next morning. Here, the allegations against Mr. Roderick arose both 
suddenly and unexpectedly. Moreover, Mr. Roderick, in his role as fire chief, was 
responsible for the protection of public safety as well as the overall operation of the Fire 
Department. See G.L. c. 48, § 42 (fire chief is responsible for extinguishing fires in 
town, protection of life and property in case of fire, has full and absolute authority in 
administration of fire department, and makes rules and regulations for its operation). 
Thus, the Board was presented with an unanticipated circumstance involving the 
operation of a public safety department that required immediate resolution. 
2. The Open Meeting Law did not Require the Board to Meet in Executive Session. 
We now address the remaining allegations in the complaint, including that the 
Open Meeting Law required the Board to meet in executive session where it discussed 
the reputation and character of Mr. Roderick and that the Board failed to provide Mr. 
Roderick with 48 hours' notice that he would be discussed during the meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Board of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter 
executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered 
into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). One executive session purpose allows a 
public body to enter executive session "to discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The individual 
to be discussed during such an executive session must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and has the right to be 
present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to speak on his own behalf. Id. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to meet in executive 
session but rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it must do so 
under one of the enumerated purposes. Moreover, except when meeting in executive 
3 
===PAGE 4===
session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require 
public bodies to provide additional notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of 
individuals for topics discussed during a meeting. See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41. 
Here, the Board discussed Mr. Roderick in open session. The Board did attempt to 
contact Mr. Roderick prior to the meeting to request his presence. Regardless, because 
the Board was not required to notify Mr. Roderick that it would be discussing his possible 
discipline, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide him 
with individual notice. 
Furthermore, if the Board wished to enter executive session to discuss Mr. 
Roderick's reputation or character, it was required to provide him with written notice at 
least 48 hours prior to the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Although the 48-hour 
notification "may be waived upon written agreement of the parties," the Board was 
unable to get in touch with Mr. Roderick prior to the meeting. Id. 
Finally, we note that the Board did not respond to the complaint within the time 
frame required by law. Further, it appears that the Board's administrative assistant 
responded to this Open Meeting Law complaint on behalf of the Board, without the 
Board first reviewing and discussing the complaint and its response during a meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after receiving an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General's Office a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). The body must convene a meeting in order to review the complaint 
before sending a response or authorizing its staff member to send a response. See OML 
2012- 90; OML 2011-6. Here, the complaint was filed with the Board on November 30. 
The Board did not request an extension, and responded by email dated December 22, 
more than 14 business days after the complaint was filed with the Board. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by providing insufficient detail in a meeting notice. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Sincerely, 
KerryAime Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Christopher Andrade 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may 
obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one 
days of receipt of a final order. 
5 