===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 13, 2026  
  
OML 2026 – 26  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Corbo:  
 
On September 16, 2025, this office received a complaint from Paula Fay, on behalf of the 
Friends of the Middleboro Public Library, Inc. (the “Friends”), alleging that the Middleborough 
Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint originally was filed with the Board on July 17 and you responded on its behalf by 
letter dated August 6.1  The complaint alleges that at its June 23 meeting, the Commission 
discussed a topic not listed on the notice.  The complaint also alleges that erroneous and 
unsubstantiated information was presented during the discussion, and that a member of the Board 
who is an attorney violated her duty to provide competent representation and had a conflict of 
interest when she voted on matters involving the Friends.  The complaint also alleges that the 
meeting packet provided to Board members in advance of the June 23 meeting deliberately 
included documents that were incomplete and inaccurate.  Finally, the complaint alleges that the 
Board Chair failed to control the meeting, thereby exposing Board members to liability and 
damaging the reputation of the Friends.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed the Friends’ Restated Articles of Organization at its June 23 meeting.  We 
decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint, for the reasons discussed below.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, documents attached thereto, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice of the June 23 meeting and viewed a recording of same.2  We 
also reviewed the minutes of a meeting the Board held on March 27.  We reviewed the Friends’ 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 5. 
2 We accessed the recording at vod.mccam02346.com/store-3/9455-BoLT-6-23-25-v1/vod.mp4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
filings on the website of the Secretary of the Commonwealth.  Finally, we reviewed articles in 
the press regarding the relationship between the Board and the Friends.3   
 
FACTS 
 
 The Friends is a private nonprofit corporation that was established in 1986 to “encourage 
and promote the enrichment and use of the resources and facilities of the Middleboro Library 
System through programming and fund raising.”  On or about January 27, 2021, the Friends and 
the Board entered an agreement (the “2021 Agreement”) pursuant to which, among other things, 
the Friends agreed to work with the Library Director, staff and Board to engage in advocacy 
efforts on behalf of the Library and to publicly support the Library and its staff, policies and 
strategic goals.  In exchange, the Board agreed, among other things, to provide the Friends with 
space in the Library at no cost to the Friends.  The Friends also operated a bookstore at the 
Middleboro library.   
 
 On or about September 18, 2024, the Friends terminated the 2021 Agreement, citing 
excessive oversight by the Board.  In the months that followed, the Board allowed the Friends to 
continue to use library resources consistent with the terms of the 2021 Agreement, including 
operation of the bookstore in the library.  However, at its meeting on March 27, the Board voted 
to suspend the relationship between the Friends and the Board until a new operating agreement 
was signed.  The Board also voted to close the Friends’ bookstore at the library.   
 
 On or about May 29, the Friends adopted Restated Articles of Organization.  Pursuant to 
the Restated Articles, the Friends may continue to “provide funding for programs offered by the 
staff of the Middleborough Public Library and enhance and enliven the experience of library 
users.”  However, support of the library was not the Friends’ exclusive purpose, according to the 
Restated Articles.  For example, the Friends may also “partner with other organizations to benefit 
the community at large.”   
 
On June 18, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on June 23.  The notice 
included as a topic under “Old Business” “Item 9-1: Friends’ Operating Agreement Negotiations 
– Update.”  The meeting took place as scheduled.  When the Board reached Item 9-1, Library 
Director Randy Gagne opened the discussion by stating that he reviewed the Friends’ Restated 
Articles of Organization in response to an email exchange with the Friends.  Board Chair Jim 
Okolita expressed concern that the Friends will only communicate with the Board and not with 
the Library Director.  According to the Chair, this line of communication would be contrary to 
the library’s own procedures and if the Friends insisted on it, it could jeopardize negotiations 
between the Board and the Friends.  The Chair also noted that the Friends had been granted very 
broad use of the library, which needs to be renegotiated.  One member agreed that if the Friends 
insist on channeling all communication through the Board, there would be nothing to negotiate.  
Another member proposed that town counsel review the amendments to the Friends’ Articles of 
Organization.  Over the course of 40 minutes, the discussion of this notice topic, and related 
vote, continued to evolve, with a focus on questions that Board Chair Okolita should ask town 
counsel.  The questions largely focused on the Friends’ actions.  For example, the Board wanted 
 
3 “Middleboro Library bookstore to close amid ‘acrimony’ between library and ‘Friends ,’” Taunton Daily Gazette, 
April 4, 2025; “Middleboro Public Library cuts ties with Friends organization,” Nemasket Week, August 17, 2025. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to know whether the Friends could continue to include the library in their name even though the 
organization no longer supported the library exclusively.  At the conclusion of agenda Item 9-1, 
the Board voted to authorize Chair Okolita to confer with town counsel on several topics: the 
Friends’ refusal to communicate with the Library Director; whether the Friends had followed 
proper procedure to “re-organize”; the Friends’ continued use of the library name in their own 
name; the Friends’ revisions of their own bylaws; and the Friends’ disposal of assets. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.4  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
Here, the notice included as a topic an update on the negotiations with the Friends 
regarding an operating agreement.  This notice topic can reasonably be understood to concern an 
agreement between the Friends and the Board regarding the Friends’ operations at the library.  
The Friends complain, however, that the notice did not advise the public that the Board would 
discuss the Restated Articles of Organization which the Friends had recently filed with the 
Secretary of the Commonwealth.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to list all tangential topics related 
to a discussion or list every detail about a topic, nor does the law require a public body to 
anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion.  The Law only requires that 
the notice identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); 
OML 2025-66; 2022-98; OML 2015-73; OML 2014-38.  The recording of the June 23 meeting 
shows that the Friends’ Restated Articles of Organization were discussed in the context of the 
discussion of the negotiations between the Friends and the Board.  Of particular concern to 
Board members was the Restated Articles’ expansion of the Friends’ purpose to include support 
of the community at large, not just the library.  The vote at the conclusion of the discussion did 
not directly reference the negotiations with the Friends.  However, the questions that were 
discussed and ultimately were the subject of the vote flowed naturally from the notice topic.  See 
OML 2025-25 (finding “discussions about the facilities maintenance service agreement and 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
municipal employees naturally flowed from the discussion of the quarterly budget”); OML 2023-
26 (finding discussion of police chief’s paid details at flea market flowed naturally from posted 
discussion of police chief’s progress on completing assigned tasks even though hours worked at 
flea market would be in addition to, not instead of, contracted hours as police chief); OML 2021-
37 (finding discussion of health agent’s failure to obtain permit to keep chickens at home and 
dilapidated state of garage on her property naturally flowed from posted topic of personnel 
discussion of health agent).  Because we find that the discussion of the Restated Articles of 
Organization naturally flowed from the discussion of negotiations between the Board and the 
Friends, we find no violation. 
 
We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint.  The Division of Open 
Government’s jurisdiction concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  The Open 
Meeting Law does not govern the substance of a public body’s discussions.  See OML 2023-230; 
OML 2023-84; OML 2021-10.  Therefore, allegations that the Board or the Library Director 
presented erroneous information during the discussion, or included purposefully incomplete 
information in the meeting packet, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law and we decline to review them.  Similarly, the Open Meeting Law does not govern 
the ethical obligations of an attorney, and we therefore decline to review the allegations of 
conflict of interest and inadequate representation.   
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board improperly relinquished control of the 
meeting agenda to Library Director Gagne.  We do not disagree that Director Gagne spoke at 
length and forcefully during the meeting.  Among other things, he stated that the Friends should 
return membership fees that were taken under false pretenses and that it should amend its bylaws 
and articles of organization.  Director Gagne also maintained that he was owed an apology from 
the Friends.  A public body does not violate the Open Meeting Law when it allows a non-
member to speak at length, even if his contribution has the effect of steering the body’s 
discussion in a particular direction.  The Open Meeting Law provides that “[n]o person shall 
address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the 
request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(g).  It is within a chair’s discretion to establish 
parameters for public participation during a meeting.  See OML 2023-159; OML Declination 7-
14-22 (Springfield School Committee); OML 2022-69.  Just as a chair may limit public 
participation, so too may the chair allow a non-member to contribute at length to the discussion.  
Because the Open Meeting Law places no limit on the chair’s yielding of the floor, we decline to 
review this allegation.5 
 
  
 
5 Although we decline to review this allegation, we acknowledge that the Library Director may have a different 
relationship with the Board than does any other member of the public.  If a public body chair delegates the task of 
preparing meeting notices to another individual or shares that responsibility, the meeting notice must include all 
topics that the chair and that other individual reasonably anticipate for discussion.   See OML 2025-59; OML 2024-
197; OML 2020-152.  Even if the Library Director does not share responsibility for creation of the meeting notice, if 
he regularly appears at Board meetings to provide updates or otherwise engage with the Board, it is best practice for 
the Chair to solicit and include on the meeting notice details regarding the matters to be discussed.   See OML 2025-
169 (building inspector); OML 2022-111 (council on ageing director); OML 2013-111 (town administrator). 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it discussed the Friends’ Restated Articles of Organization at its June 23 meeting.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Paula Fay (via email: ) 
 Middleborough Library Board of Trustees (via email: midlib@sailsinc.org ) 
Pamela Menconi, Middleborough Town Clerk (via email: 
pmenconi@middleborough.com) 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
