===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 15, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 153 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jennifer Dean Wing on July 12, 2022, alleging that 
the Millville Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 9, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 15.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board should have 
met in executive session to discuss a complaint against and the discipline of a member of the 
Capital Program Committee and Blackstone Valley Technical School Committee. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notices, open session minutes and video 
recordings of the Board’s May 16 and June 7 meetings.
2  We find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter executive session for any often-enumerated purposes, provided that it has first 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 A video recording of the May 16 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wiI7K3snUrM .  A 
video recording of the June 7 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yvzJGabLhWk. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b).  One executive session purpose allows a public body to 
enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, 
rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, 
or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  The individual to be discussed during such an executive 
session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session and has the right to be present during deliberations, to have counsel present, 
and to speak on his own behalf.  Id. 
 
Here, the Board posted notice on May 23 for a meeting to be held on June 7 at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice included an Executive Session pursuant to Purpose 1 “to discuss discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member, 
or individual.”  The notice then listed several open session topics, including “Discussion of 
appropriate conduct at Board of Selectmen meetings and the impact to effectiveness of elected 
and appointed officials” and “Consideration of disciplinary action regarding” the executive 
session matter.  In accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), the Board notified Gerald Finn, a 
member of the Capital Program Committee and Blackstone Valley Technical School Committee, 
that it had scheduled an executive session to consider a complaint against him.  
 
The June 7 meeting was held as planned.  At the outset of the meeting, Chair Jennifer 
Gill announced that the Board would not convene in executive session.  Rather, the Board would 
discuss the conduct of and possible disciplinary action against Mr. Finn in open session.  
Specifically, the Board reviewed and discussed Mr. Finn’s actions at a Board meeting held on 
May 16, which was held via the web-based Zoom platform, during which he was seen making an 
inappropriate hand gesture and “mouth[ing]” an offensive remark.  Chair Gill asserted that Mr. 
Finn’s behavior was unacceptable for a public official representing Millville, and Board 
members Andrew Alward and Richard Bremilst echoed her sentiment.  Mr. Finn was present at 
the meeting and apologized explaining that he acted out of frustration and did not realize he was 
visible on Zoom.  The Board then debated disciplinary options.  Town Administrator and Capital 
Program Committee Chair Peter Caruso reported that he had requested Mr. Finn’s resignation 
from the Capital Program Committee, which Mr. Finn submitted.  Ultimately, the Board voted to 
“request” Mr. Finn’s resignation from the Blackstone Valley Technical School Committee.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board should have discussed Mr. Finn’s conduct and any 
possible discipline in executive session.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies 
to meet in executive session but rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive session, it 
must do so only for one of the enumerated purposes.  See OML 2021-40; OML 2019-63; OML 
2017-18.3  Moreover, once a meeting begins, the public body controls its own agenda.  See OML 
2014-35.  Therefore, even though the notice included an executive session topic pursuant to 
Purpose 1, the Board was not obligated to convene in executive session but could choose to 
discuss the topic in open session, as it did here.  While Mr. Finn, as the individual to be 
discussed in executive session, had the right to request that any discussions occur in open 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
session, he does not have the right to force the Board to discuss the matter in executive session.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“A public body shall hold an open session if the individual involved 
requests that the session be open.”).  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by choosing not to meet in executive session to discuss Mr. Finn’s conduct.  
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Caitlyn Galvin, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jennifer Dean Wing – By email only  
Millville Board of Selectmen c/o Town Administrator Peter Caruso – By email only: 
townadmin@millvillema.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
