===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www. mas s. gov/ago
December 31, 2019 
OML 2019-169
John Henry
Weston School Committee Chair 
89 Wellesley Street 
Weston, MA 02493
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Henry:
This office received a complaint from Mary Ellen Sikes on July 29, 2019, alleging that 
the Weston School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 27, and you responded 
on behalf of the Committee by email dated July 15.1 In her complaint, Ms. Sikes alleges that at 
its June 3 and June 17 meetings, the Committee convened in executive session before open 
session. Ms. Sikes also alleges that the Committee has not conducted periodic reviews of its 
executive session minutes to determine whether non-disclosure is still warranted. Finally, the 
complaint also alleges that the minutes of the February 4 meeting were not approved in a timely 
manner.2
Following our review, we find that the Committee properly convened in open session 
before entering executive session at its June 3 and 17 meetings. However, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to review its executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals and by failing to create and approve minutes for its February 4 meeting in a 
timely manner. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Committee’s 
response and the request for further review. In addition, we reviewed the February 4, June 3 and 
June 17 meeting minutes. We also corresponded by email with you on December 10, 11,16, 17 
and 26.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 The complaint also alleges “[sjometimes minutes not posted promptly, completely or agendas titled incorrectly).]” 
To the extent that this allegation does not allege any particular wrongdoing by the Committee on a specific date, we 
decline to review this allegation because our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations. See OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Advisory Committee).

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
February 4.3 The notice included the following topics: I. OPENING BUSINESS Call to Order;
II. EXECUTIVE SESSION An executive session is anticipated for the purpose of discussion of 
Collective Bargaining Agreements, not to return to Open Session; and III. ADJOURNMENT.4 
On February 4, the Committee convened briefly in open session before unanimously voting by 
roll call to enter executive session for the purpose of discussing collective bargaining. According 
to the minutes posted to the Committee’s website, the minutes for this meeting were not 
approved until August 28.
The Committee posted notice for meetings to be held on June 3 and 17. Both notices 
listed an executive session to discuss collective bargaining matters as the first of several topics 
included on the notice. On June 3 and 17, the Committee convened briefly in open session before 
unanimously voting by roll call to enter executive session for the purpose of discussing collective 
bargaining. At the conclusion of both executive sessions, the Committee returned to open session 
for the remainder of the meetings.
On June 27, Ms. Sikes filed the Open Meeting Law complaint which is the subject of this 
determination. On August 28, at an open session of the School Committee, the Chair announced 
that he had completed a review of all of the Committee’s executive session minutes.5 The Chair 
recommended, and the Committee approved, the release of all executive session minutes from 
2017 through June 2019. The executive session minutes from the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 
school year had not been reviewed for possible release to the public since their approval 
following each respective meeting until the Chair’s review in the summer of 2019.
DISCUSSION
I. The Committee Properly Convened in Open Session Before Entering Executive Session
at its June 3 and 17 Meetings.
A public body may enter executive, or closed, session provided that it has first convened 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for 
the executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Id; see also 
OML 2018-19.6
3 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies conspicuously record the date 
and time that a meeting notice is posted on or with the notice. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d).
4 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Committee that when entering into executive session to 
discuss collective bargaining under Purpose 2 or Purpose 3, a public body generally must identify the specific 
bargaining unit(s) to be discussed, both on the meeting notice as well as in the announcement in open session prior 
to entering executive session. See OML 2019-132; OML 2019-118; OML 2015-87.
5 For clarity, we will refer to you in the third person for the remainder of this letter.
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
The Chair has assured this office that the Committee did indeed convene its June 3 and 
17 meetings in open session, as was indicated on the meeting notices, and that any confusion 
regarding the order of events resulted from a lack of clarity in the originally approved meeting 
minutes. The Committee has since revised and re-approved the minutes to make it clear that the 
Committee did first convene in open session and then took a roll call vote to enter executive 
session, as required. Each time, the vote was unanimous. Absent evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the public body’s statement and find that the Committee convened its meetings and 
conducted the required procedural steps in open session before entering executive session. See 
OML 2019-132; OML 2016-58. We therefore find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in this regard.
II. The Committee Failed to Review its Executive Session Minutes at Reasonable Intervals.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee. 402 Mass.
179, 184(1988).
A public body or its chair or designee must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 2017- 
104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. At the meeting following each periodic review, the public 
body must announce which executive session minutes will be released and which will continue 
to be withheld at the next meeting following its review, and such announcement shall be 
included in the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56. A 
public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is ongoing. If a 
public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for the executive 
session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the public, it must 
continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals until it 
determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-133.
Here, the Chair acknowledged that neither the Committee nor a designee had reviewed 
executive session minutes from the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 school years for possible public 
release until the summer of 2019. We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to review its outstanding executive session minutes at reasonable 
intervals. However, we find that the Committee took appropriate remedial measures after this 
issue was brought to its attention. On August 28, at an open session of the School Committee, the 
Chair announced that he had completed a review of all of the Committee’s un-released executive
3

===PAGE 4===
session minutes.7 The Chair recommended, and the Committee approved, the release of all 
executive session minutes from 2017 through June 2019. In addition, the Committee represented 
that it intends to review executive session minutes at least twice a year going forward, with the 
next review scheduled for January 2020. Therefore, although we find that the Committee failed 
to review its executive session minutes at reasonable intervals for possible public release in the 
past, we commend the Committee for the measures it has now taken and its commitment to 
review all outstanding executive session minutes at least every six months in the future.
III. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Create and Approve
Minutes for its February 4 Meeting in a Timely Manner.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
C.M.R. 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at 
the next meeting. See OML 2019-39; OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.
In situations where a public body convenes in open session merely for the purpose of 
entering executive session, we recommend that public bodies create open session minutes which 
record the stated purpose for entering executive session and the vote of each member, along with 
the date, time and place of the meeting, in accordance with the law’s requirements. See OML 
2018-19. Here, the Committee did not approve meeting minutes for its February 4 meeting until 
August 28 despite meeting more than three times in the intervening months. We therefore find 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. The Committee acknowledges that these 
minutes were overlooked, because the open session of the meeting consisted only of convening 
an executive session. Since the Committee has now drafted and approved minutes for the 
February 4 meeting, we find that adequate remedial measures have been taken and no further 
relief is required.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee properly convened in open 
session before entering executive session at its June 3 and 17 meetings. However, we find that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to review its executive session minutes 
at reasonable intervals and failing to create and approve minutes for its February 4 meeting in a 
timely manner. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation 
in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.
7 For clarity, we will refer to you in the third person for the remainder of this letter.
4

===PAGE 5===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Mary Ellen Sikes
Weston School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
