===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 182  
 
 
Thomas Millias 
Chair, Halifax Planning Board 
499 Plymouth Street 
Halifax, MA 02338 
 
By email only: Thomas.Millias@halifax-ma.org 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Millias: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alan Dias on March 15, 2023, alleging that the 
Halifax Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 9, and Board member 
Amy Troup
2 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, on March 16.  The complaint 
alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice 
for and failing to conduct roll call votes during a meeting held on February 2.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
specific notice with respect to one open session topic and two executive session topics.  We find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice 
and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on February 2, as well as a video recording 
of that meeting.
3  Finally, we communicated with Danielle Akeke, the Board’s Administrative 
Assistant, on September 27 and October 12. 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 At the time the response was filed, Ms. Troup was Vice Chair of the Board.  She is still a member of the Board but 
is no longer Vice Chair. 
3 A video recording of the Board’s February 2 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VkVDwv-dDI4.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On January 31 at 2:54 P.M., the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on February 2 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed seven main topic headings, each 
of which included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed.  One main topic heading was “Signing” and included the following four additional 
specific item descriptions: Site plan Larry Loco Tacos – 847 Plymouth Street; Extension to 0 & 
592 Plymouth Street; 101 Monponsett Street; and 0 & 312 Plymouth Street site plan extension.   
 
The notice also listed a main topic heading for “Executive Session” and stated “As 
discussing strategy with respect to litigation in an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the litigating or legal discussions of the Town.”  Three specific item descriptions were listed 
under this main topic that further advised the public of the discussions, which included “Delia 
Way;” “Recusal of Amanda Estates;” and “314 Plymouth Street in Halifax Petition 983 Notice of 
Action appealing the decision of the Planning Board of the Town of Halifax, which was recorded 
in your offices on December 19, 2022.  A Copy of the complaint was filed at Plymouth Superior 
Court (Docket No. 2383CV00012).  A copy is at the Town Clerk’s office as of January 5, 2023.”   
 
The February 2 meeting was held as planned.  At the beginning of the meeting, Board 
member Amy Troup, who was acting as Vice Chair, announced that the meeting was being 
recorded and then read directly from the notice the open session topics that would be discussed 
during the meeting, and the three specific topics that would be discussed in executive session.   
 
During the open session portion of the meeting, the Board discussed appointing a 
member to the By-Law Committee and an application for a taco truck.  The Board then 
discussed, for approximately ten minutes, an extension request for a site plan at 101 Monponsett 
Street and expressed concerns that the property owners were not following the original submitted 
site plan as they continued to clear trees from the entire property.  The Board agreed to send a 
communication to the property owners requesting that they stop removing trees and that they 
appear at the Board’s next meeting, otherwise the Board would deny the site plan. 
 
After discussing the remaining open session topics, Ms. Troup asked for a motion to 
convene in executive session, explained that discussing strategy with respect to litigation may 
have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the town, and announced that the Board 
would not reconvene in open session.  Board Member Robert Gaynor asked what the Board 
would discuss with respect to Delia Way as the notice did not include any particular purpose.  
Ms. Troup explained that the discussion would relate to her conversation with town legal counsel 
regarding strategy of “how we are going to make this happen.”  The Board then unanimously 
voted by roll call to convene in executive session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G
.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
4 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice was insufficiently specific with respect to the open 
ses
sion topic of 101 Monponsett Street.  We agree and find that the notice with respect to this 
topic was insufficient as it failed to include any detail as to the specific type of plan or permit 
under consideration with respect to this property such that a reasonable member of the public 
could determine the anticipated nature of the Board’s discussion.  Although this topic may have 
been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting attendees, notice topics must be 
sufficiently specific to reasonably inform members of the public unfamiliar with the ongoing 
matters before the Board of the anticipated nature of the discussions to be held.  See OML 2020-
137; OML 2013-55.   
 
The complaint also alleges that the notice was insufficiently specific with respect to all 
thre
e of the executive session topics.  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session 
for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.   
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announce
ment during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
resp
ect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the la wful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.   
 
First, with respect to the complaint’s allegation that the executive session topic relating to 
314 Plymouth Street was insufficient, we decline to review this allegation because we have 
already decided the issue in a previous determination.  See OML 2023-122.  In that 
determination, issued on August 3, we concluded that the notice included sufficient information 
from which the public could conclude that the 314 Plymouth Way topic was appropriate for 
executive session and sufficiently advised the public of the anticipated discussion as the notice 
identified the address that was the subject of the decision, described the discussion as involving 
litigation strategy, and listed the docket number of the litigation matter.  See OML 2023-122.  
Because we have already decided this issue, we do not address it here.   
 
Second, with respect to the executive session topic listed as “Delia Way,” the Board 
sta
tes that the discussion involved attorney advice on strategy with respect to the property.  A 
public body’s discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other 
purpose for holding an executive session.  See OML 2018-5; 2015-117.  Rather, this purpose 
offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or 
clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely.  See Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2013-108; OML 2012-43; OML 
2012-5.  The Board has not suggested that the discussions during the executive session on 
February 2 pertaining to Delia Way related to pending litigation or to a decision to pursue 
litigation.  Furthermore, executive session Purpose 3 does not cover discussions with counsel 
about general areas of law unrelated to any litigation matter.  See OML 2012-55.  We find that 
the notice with respect to this topic included insufficient information from which the public 
could conclude that the Delia Way topic was appropriate for executive session.  See OML 2015-
117. 
 
Thir
d, the Board admits, and we agree, that the executive session topic relating to the 
“Recusal of Amanda Estates” also included insufficient information from which the public could 
conclude that this topic was appropriate for executive session.
5    
  
 
5 The Board further admits that the discussions in executive session were not appropriate under Purpose 3 where 
they pertained to whether two Board members would need to recuse themselves from discussing a particular matter.  
Because the propriety of the executive session was not raised in the complaint, we do not review to determine 
whether the Board properly convened in executive session to discuss this topic but remind the Board that a  public 
body may only enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten specific purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
As a result of these procedural violations, the Board may not continue to withhold those 
porti
ons of the minutes of the February 2 executive session that pertained to discussions of 
“Delia Way” or “Recusal of Amanda Estates” under the Open Meeting Law.6  See G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 22(1) (minutes of an executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long 
as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the 
executive session was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 
2014-30; OML 2014-17.  The Board may continue to withhold the minutes from the general 
public, in whole or in part, under any applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the 
attorney/client privilege. 
 
Fina
lly, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to conduct a roll call vote prior to 
convening in executive session on February 2.  After reviewing a video recording of the 
February 2 meeting, we find that the Board did conduct a roll call vote prior to convening in 
executive session.  As such, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not 
announce
 the purpose for the executive session prior to convening in executive session.  After 
the Board discussed the open session topics, Ms. Troup asked for a motion to convene in 
executive session, and the Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session.  
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.”  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3).  While we acknowledge 
that Ms. Troup announced the purpose for the executive session at the beginning of the meeting, 
at that point she was simply reading the notice into the record.  Once the Board decided that it 
would actually convene in executive session, Ms. Troup should have then “stated the purpose for 
the executive session.”  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3).  We remind the Board of its obligations 
under the law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient specificity in its February 2 meeting notice.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  In addition, we order the Board to 
release those portions of the minutes of the February 2 executive session that pertained to 
discussions of “Delia Way” and “Recusal of Amanda Estates” subject to any redactions as 
 
6 Our office requested copies of the February 2 executive session minutes, but it appears that minutes of this  
executive session do not exist.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the m embers present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
Law further requires public bodies to approve meeting minutes, whether for open or executive session, in a timely 
manner, that is, “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public 
body can show good cause for further delay.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c);  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2018-48.  We 
remind the Board of its obligations under the law and suggest that the Board promptly create minutes of the 
February 2 executive session, if it has not already done so. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
authorized under any applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client 
privilege. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alan Dias – By email only:  
Halifax Planning Board c/o Administrative Assistant Danielle Akeke – By email only: 
Danielle.Akeke@halifax-ma.org  
 H alifax Town Clerk – By email only: susan.lawless@halifax-ma.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
