===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 30, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 64 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Theresa Cofske 
Administrative Assistant 
Brimfield Board of Selectmen 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Cofske: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Doyle on January 20, 2022, alleging that 
the Brimfield Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 20, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 18, 2022.1 In his complaint, Mr. Doyle 
alleges that the Board discussed and voted on a matter at a December 6 meeting which was 
reasonably anticipated, yet not listed on the meeting notice.  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the Board’s notices for  the 
November 4 and December 2 meetings, as well as a notice for a joint meeting with the Ipswich 
Select Board on November 16.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis added). Although the Law does not require 
public bodies to list all tangential topics related to a discussion, it requires public bodies to 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
156.2 Generally, generic items will fail to meet the specificity standards of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2019-92.  
 Mr. Doyle alleges that the Board discussed and voted on December 6 to make the Town 
Clerk’s office space permanent in the Town Annex. Mr. Doyle states that he had asked the Chair 
to include this topic on the notice for the December 6 meeting, and that the topic had been 
discussed at several prior meetings. The Board discussed this topic at the December 6 meeting 
under the category of “Old Business,” despite the specific topic not appearing on the meeting 
notice. We find, and the Board has conceded, that the topic of the Town Clerk’s office location 
was reasonably anticipated by the chair more than 48 hours in advance of the December 6 
meeting. Therefore, because the topic was anticipated—but not included on the meeting notice—
we find that the Board’s discussion of this topic violated the Open Meeting Law. In response to 
the complaint, the Board apologized and committed to ensuring that future meeting notices 
contain sufficient detail.  
 We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As the Board rescinded its vote 
regarding the Town Clerk’s office location at the Board’s meeting on January 18, 2022, we order 
no further relief.    
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michael Doyle (via email:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 