===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
June 10, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 81 
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
 
This office received two complaints from Collin Dias, the first on October 28, 2020, and 
the second on December 21, 2020, alleging that the Fall River City Council Committee on 
Finance (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 22, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 14, following an extension of 
time granted by this office.  The second complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
November 4, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 24.  The 
first complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic 
during its September 22 meeting that was not listed on the notice for that meeting.2  The second 
complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficient 
minutes of the September 22 meeting.   
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 This complaint also alleges that the Committee limited public participation in violation of the City Charter.  The 
Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies allow public participation in any form but rather states that 
“[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  Given 
that our office is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, § § 18-25, we decline to review and offer no opinion on whether failure to allow for public 
participation could be a violation of the City Charter.  See OML 2019-90; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  We resolve 
these matters by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, the complaints filed with our 
office requesting further review, the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting held on 
September 22, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3  We find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  The Open Meeting Law does not 
require the chair of a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of any 
discussion, but rather to list those topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
See OML 2019-162; OML 2016-130; OML 2014-127; OML 2011-36.4 
 
On September 18 at 12:21 P.M., the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
September 22 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed two topics – Citizens Input and “Resolution to 
discuss and review solid waste and recycling.”  On September 21 at 12:57 P.M., the complainant 
sent an email to the City Council to be read during the Citizen Input portion of the meeting.  The 
September 22 meeting was held and, at the beginning of the meeting, Clerk Alison Bouchard 
read the complainant’s email which stated his “wish to continue the city wide call for the 
resignation of our acting city administrator, Mary Sahady” and further stated his belief that she 
“must resign . . . for the betterment of our community.”  The email also included his thoughts on 
a transfer station and composting program.  Committee member Pam Laliberte-Lebeau then 
commented whether it was appropriate for citizens to send input “bashing” city employees when 
those employees were not present to defend themselves.  Committee President Cliff Ponte 
responded that he would work with the Clerk’s Office to review any input received from the 
public to ensure that it did not contain any slanderous statements.  Three other Committee 
members commented on the use of citizen input and the need to review any comments prior to 
meetings. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Committee’s discussion of the procedure for 
accepting and reviewing citizen input prior to a meeting was not included on the September 22 
meeting notice.  The discussion that occurred was in response to the complainant’s comments 
that were received the day before the September 22 meeting and which were then read to the 
Committee during that meeting.  We find that the chair could not have reasonably anticipated 
discussion about those comments 48 hours before the meeting and thus the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by holding the discussion without providing notice that it would 
occur.  See OML 2015-4. 
 
3 A video recording of the Committee’s September 22 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAk8sVBXh8o. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The second complaint alleges that the minutes of the September 22 meeting are 
insufficient because they fail to include the Committee’s discussion of the procedure for 
accepting and reviewing citizen input prior to a meeting that was prompted by the complainant’s 
comments.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.   
 
Here, the minutes indicate that the “city clerk read communications received from city 
residents, copies of which are attached hereto and made a part of these minutes” and specifically 
list the input received from the complainant on “Mary Sahady resignation and trash costs.”  The 
minutes do not include any reference to the discussion by the Committee about reviewing citizen 
communications for slanderous statements before reading them during a meeting.  The 
discussion that was prompted by the complainant’s comments lasted approximately three and 
one-half minutes and simply reviewed the protocol that was already in place for accepting 
citizens’ input.  The Committee did not take any specific action or make any decisions.  While 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 
2011-55.  We find that the minutes of the Committee’s September 22 meeting complied with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.   
   
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Collin Dias – By email only:  
Fall River City Council Committee on Finance c/o Chair Cliff Ponte – By email only: 
   
   

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 