===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 180 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Timothy A. Reilly, Esq. 
City of Chicopee Law Department 
17 Springfield Street 
1st Floor 
Chicopee, MA 01013 
treilly@chicopeema.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reilly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lisa Bienvenue on June 2, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Chicopee City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on March 12, and, after an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated April 15. We 
understand the complaint to allege that, during a February 18 meeting, the City Solicitor refused 
to allow the Council to ask questions regarding a request before the Council to appropriate funds 
for a settlement agreement. We further understand the complaint to allege that the minutes of the 
February 18 meeting failed to list “supporting documents” related to the request to appropriate 
funds for the settlement agreement.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list documents in the minutes of its February 18 meeting. We decline to review whether 
the City Solicitor refused to allow the Council to ask questions regarding the request for 
settlement funds. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Council’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the minutes and a 
video recording of the Council’s February 18 meeting.
2 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Council’s February 18 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tVliUd7pbzE. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
First, we decline to review whet her the City Solicitor refused to allow the Council to ask 
questions regarding a request before the Council to appropriate funds for a settlement agreement. 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members, 
it does not apply to municipal employees. See OML Declination 9-19-2025 (Fall River Zoning 
Board of Appeals); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 
(Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries).
3 The majority of the complaint centers on the City 
Solicitor’s refusal to answer questions regarding the litigation matter for which the Council was 
being asked to appropriate settlement funds. Because the Open Meeting Law does not apply to 
the City Solicitor, we decline to review the complaint to the extent it alleges that the City 
Solicitor violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Second, to the extent the complaint alleges that the Council failed to discuss the 
app
ropriation of settlement funds in sufficient detail, we decline to review this allegation as well. 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any 
topic, nor does it establish requirements for the level of detail a public body’s discussions must 
include. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML 2023-219; OML 2014-86; OML 2013-64. Even if true, 
an allegation that the Council failed to discuss the appropriation of settlement funds at a certain 
level of detail would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law; therefore, we decline to 
review this allegation. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Council used “backup” or “supporting” documents 
in orde
r to make an informed decision regarding the appropriation of settlement funds, but that 
these documents were not listed in the minutes of the February 18 meeting. The Open Meeting 
Law does not require that a public list in its meeting minutes all documents reviewed by a public 
body with respect to a notice topic. Instead, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
list in its meeting minutes “documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a 
meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and its contents discussed by members of the public body during a meeting, the 
document has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 
2012-42. As such, any documents that are physically present, verbally identified, and discussed 
during a meeting must be separately listed in the minutes. See OML 2022-141. 
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the “backup” or “supporting” documents were 
used during the February 18 meeting and therefore should have been listed in the meeting 
minutes, we find that they were not. Although the City Solicitor noted that a settlement 
memorandum had been distributed to the councilors and a councilor indicated that she had 
reviewed some unidentified document, no document related to the settlement agreement was 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
verbally identified or its contents discussed during the meeting.4 Therefore, the Council was not 
required to list these documents in the minutes of the February 18 meeting. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Frank N. Laflamme, President, Chicopee City Council  
(via email: flaflamme@chicopeema.gov) 
Keith W. Rattell, Chicopee City Clerk (via email: krattell@chicopeema.gov)  
Lisa Bienvenue  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
4 In its response, the Council explains that there exists a settlement memorandum and a settlement agreement. The 
Council asserts that the public is not entitled to the settlement memorandum but that the settlement agreement has 
been disclosed to the public. We offer no opinion as to whether the settlement memorandum is subject to disclosure, 
but remind the Council that, in general, documents and exhibits used at an open session meeting are “ public records 
in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions unde r [the Public Records Law].” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). 
