===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 40 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio, Jr. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on November 10, 2025,
1 alleging 
that the Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 25, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 16.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law on August 13 when it entered executive session (1) for an 
impermissible purpose, and (2) without declaring that an open meeting might have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
entered executive session without a declaration from the chair that an open meeting might have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.  We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review 
of the complaint, and the notice of the August 13 meeting.  We also viewed a recording of the 
open session of the August 13 meeting.2  We reviewed minutes of the executive session held on 
August 13.  We communicated with you via email.  Finally, we reviewed a lien and a 
subordination agreement, relative to property located at 71 North Summer Street, Adams (“the 
Property”).
3 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=srRJlRfWknk.  
3 The lien and subordination agreement are recorded at the Berkshire North Registry of Deeds at Book 1884, Page 
678, and Book 1895, Page 719, respectively. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On March 18, 2025, the owner of the Property granted a 
lien to the Town of Adams, acting by and through the Adams Housing Rehabilitation Program.  
The lien was granted to secure the Property owner’s performance under her agreement with the 
Town to rehabilitate the Property.  After the lien was executed and recorded at the Registry of 
Deeds, the owner of the Property sought to refinance her mortgage on the Property with Adams 
Community Bank (the “Bank”).  The Bank required that the Town’s lien be subordinate to the 
new mortgage.   
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on August 13. The notice included 
the following topic: 
 
6. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, s21(a)(6) to consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body; re: subordination 
request for Minardi, 71 North Summer Street under Federal Community Development 
Block Grant Housing Rehabilitation Program deferred payment loan, and not return to 
Open Session 
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  Approximately 31 minutes into the meeting, the 
chair introduced the executive session topic by reading the language of the notice, as set forth 
above.  He then asked for a motion.  In response, a member moved to enter executive session, 
again reading the language of the notice.  The motion was seconded.  The chair then stated, “The 
chair does declare this is, oh, any discussion?”  Another member then suggested that the motion 
include the Property owner’s first name.  There was no discussion of this suggestion and by roll 
call vote the motion passed.  The Board adjourned the open session to take a five-minute recess 
prior to entering executive session.  
 
During the executive session, the Board discussed subordination of the lien on the 
Property, including whether sufficient equity would remain to satisfy the Town’s lien should the 
Bank foreclose on the Property under the terms of the new mortgage.
4  Executive session 
minutes reflect that generally the Town’s policy is to subordinate its agreement to a mortgage 
when there is adequate value in the property to cover the Town lien.  During the executive 
session, the Interim Town Administrator stated the amount of the mortgages, the assessed value 
of the Property, and the amount of the lien and explained the impact of the subordination 
agreement on the lien.  Following a brief discussion, the Board voted to approve the 
subordination agreement.    
 
  
 
4 The minutes of the Open Session have been released to the public and therefore we are not constrained in our 
summary of those minutes. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board entered executive session for a permissible purpose. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be open to the public, except when convening in executive session for any of the ten 
enumerated purposes.  See G.L. c. 30A, §21(a).   
 
One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is Purpose 6, “[t]o consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§21(a)(6).  We have explained that a public body may discuss the discharge of a lien in executive 
session under Purpose 6, because a lien is an interest in real property and a public discussion of 
the value of the property and potential terms of a lien release could adversely impact the public 
body’s negotiating position regarding the lien release.  See OML 2025-139; OML 2014-136; 
OML 2012-114.5  Similarly, a public body may discuss the subordination of a lien in executive 
session under Purpose 6.   
 
During the executive session, the Board discussed the value of the Property, the amount 
of encumbrances on the Property and the impact of the proposed subordination agreement on the 
Town’s interest in the property.  This discussion was appropriate under Purpose 6 and was not 
simply an administrative procedure, as suggested by the complainant.  See OML 2025-139 
(Board’s release of lien was not simple ministerial act that was required to be performed in open 
session). 
 
In her request for review, the complainant maintains that Nora Minardi, whose property 
was the subject of the subordination request, was invited to attend the executive session, thereby 
defeating the purpose of a closed meeting that was called for purposes of negotiation.  See, e.g., 
OML 2024-67 (“Purpose 6 was defeated where representatives of state agencies [who were 
parties to land exchange under negotiation] also attended the executive session.”)  However, 
minutes of the executive session do not reflect that Nora Minardi attended the executive session 
and the Board has denied that she attended.  As a factual matter, we find that the property owner 
did not attend the executive session.  For all of the above reasons, we are satisfied that the Board 
permissibly convened in executive session on August 13 to consider the value of real property 
where the Board held a negotiating position.  Therefore, we find no violation on the part of the 
Board as to this allegation. 
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the Chair failed to announce that 
an open meeting might have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the 
public body. 
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
As noted above, prior to convening in executive session under Purpose 6, the chair of a 
public body must declare that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body.  G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6).  See also OML 2025-95; OML 2024-161 
(noting that chair may not simply read statutory language but must affirmatively declare that 
discussions in open session may have a detrimental effect on public body’s negotiating position 
in particular matter before the public body).  Here, both the chair and the moving member read 
the statutory language.  It appears that the chair started to make the proper declaration (“The 
chair does declare this is, oh, any discussion?”) but got distracted by the need to ask whether 
there was discussion on the motion.  Because the requisite declaration was not completed, the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent that the complainant asks that we find this 
violation intentional, we decline to do so.  As noted above, it appears that the chair started to 
make the declaration but did not complete it.  Under the circumstances, we find that the violation 
was not intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to announce that an open meeting might have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body.  We find that the Board did not otherwise violate the 
Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Duval, Chair, Adams Board of Selectmen (via email:  jduval@town.adams.ma.us)  
Nicholas Caccamo, Adams Town Administrator (via email: 
ncaccamo@town.adams.ma.us) 
Adams Town Clerk (via email: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
Catherine Foster (via email: ) 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The  
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 