===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 162 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Matthew G. Feher, Esq. 
KP Law 
MFeher@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Feher: 
This letter addresses two complaints from Patrick Higgins alleging that the Somerset 
Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 19; you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 10; and the complaint was filed with our office for 
review on May 10.
1  The first complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic during its 
April 19 meeting—the creation of town planner and grant writer positions—that was not 
included on the notice for that meeting.  The second complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about April 19; you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 10; and 
the complaint was filed with our office for review on May 12.  The second complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to timely approve minutes of six executive sessions held in February and 
March. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice for and a video recording of the Board’s April 19 
meeting.
2 
 
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s April 19 meeting is available online at 
https://somerset.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=3d497c18-78d5-45ca-a537-8683accc13b7. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Discussion of a Topic Not Included on the Meeting Notice 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting 
notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
detailed when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
3  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a 
discussion, only that it identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 
CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.  With 
regard to annual town budgets, we have explained that when a public body anticipates 
discussing specific budget items or particular departments’ budgets, it must specifically list 
them in its meeting notice; however, when a public body is reviewing the entire town fiscal 
year budget, it is not required to list all budget items on its meeting notice.  See OML 2021-
154; OML 2019-77; OML 2012-83; OML 2011-7. 
 
 Her
e, the notice for the Board’s April 19 meeting included the topic “Review/Vote 
Budget if ready.”  During the April 19 meeting, the Town Administrator began the budget 
discussion by providing an introduction and overview of the budget process and then invited 
the Board to ask questions of him or of department heads who could provide detail on specific 
aspects of the budget.  The Board’s Chair began the Board’s discussion by introducing his 
proposal to add town planner and grant writer positions to the town budget.  He presented the 
benefits of hiring for the positions rather than using existing staff or consultants retained on a 
project basis; stated that he had provided the Board members with sample position 
descriptions; and discussed the cost and projected revenue associated with such positions.  
The proposal generated significant discussion by the Board about the positions, including not 
only of the cost and projected revenue attributed to the proposed positions but also the virtues 
of hiring for those positions and the nature and scope of the roles in relation to other town 
staff and departments.  The initial discussion about the positions lasted 25 minutes, and the 
Board returned to discuss the topic, sometimes at length, several additional times throughout 
the meeting.  The discussion of the town planner and grant writer positions was the single 
largest component of the Board’s discussion of the annual budget.  Ultimately the Board 
voted to approve the town budget as presented by the Town Administrator—without the town 
planner and grant writer positions—for inclusion on the warrant for fall Town Meeting. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the discussion of the town planner and grant writer 
positions was an anticipated topic that should have been specifically listed on the meeting 
notice.  The Board does not suggest that the discussion was unanticipated; instead, the Board 
asserts that the discussion regarding the town planner and grant writer positions was but one 
part of its discussion of the entire town budget, and therefore not a topic that needed to be 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
specifically listed on the meeting notice.  After reviewing a video of the meeting, and in 
particular noting the prepared and thorough manner in which the Chair presented his proposal 
to hire a town planner and grant writer, we find that the Chair reasonably anticipated a robust 
discussion of this topic in particular.  Therefore, we conclude that the general notice topic 
“Review/Vote Budget if ready” was insufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of 
the specific topics to be discussed, and the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Approval of Executive Session Minutes 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve meeting minutes, 
for both open a
nd executive session, in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely 
manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is 
later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see 
OML 2018-48.  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve minutes for six 
executive sessions held in February and March.  In response, the Board acknowledges that it 
failed to timely approve five of the sets of minutes; the Board asserts—and we agree—that 
one set of minutes was not untimely as it was permissibly approved within the later of the 
next three meetings or 30 days.  The Board asserts that all the minutes have since been 
approved and it will ensure timely approval of executive session minutes in the future.
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email ) 
Somerset Select Board (via email: jsouza@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Somerset Town Clerk (via email: dberge@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
4 We remind the Board that approval of executive session minutes is a separate and unrelated obligation from the 
requirement that executive session minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether they should be 
released to the public.  See OML 2019-115.  This initial approval of executive session minutes is to approve the 
minutes as an accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive session and does not mean that the 
minutes are approved for release to the public.  See OML 2019-163. 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 