===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 29, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 94 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
  
 
 RE: 
Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on February 26, 2020, alleging that the 
Fall River City Council Subcommittee of Health and Environmental Affairs (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on January 27, and you responded on behalf of the 
Subcommittee by letter dated February 14.1 In his complaint, Mr. Dias alleges that the 
Subcommittee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Subcommittee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also spoke with 
the Subcommittee’s Chair on July 16. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During the week of January 6, members of the Fall River 
City Council were sworn into office and three members were appointed to the Subcommittee. 
On January 8, the Herald News published an article concerning asbestos at the King 
Phillip Mill and a resulting investigation by the Environmental Crimes Strike Force. The King 
Phillip Mill is a historic cotton mill complex located in Fall River. The process of demolishing 
the Mill has been underway since at least 2018 and the redevelopment of the property is a topic 
of significant local interest. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On January 10, the complainant posted a public poll on Facebook which asked: “Should 
Environmental Chairman City Councilor Trott Lee host a meeting of the City Council 
Environmental Subcommittee to discuss solutions to the Asbestos situation concern the King 
Phillip Mill?” A few dozen users voted and several more commented on the poll. Subcommittee 
Chair Lee, who was mentioned in the poll, commented, in relevant part, “In regards the 
subcommittee, [Councilor] Chris [Peckham] and [Councilor] Leo [Pelletier] have both been 
called about this topic and others, there’s no doubt we’ll be holding meetings.”  
On January 27, Mr. Dias filled his Open Meeting Law complaint with the Subcommittee, 
alleging that Chair Lee’s comment indicated that the Subcommittee members had discussed the 
King Phillips Mill outside of a posted meeting.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public’s 
interest in witnessing the deliberations of public officials with the government’s need to conduct 
its business efficiently. To that end, the Law defines deliberation as:  
[A]n oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within 
its jurisdiction; provided, however, that “deliberation” shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.   
Although it is clear that certain administrative tasks are excluded from the definition of 
“deliberation,” that exception includes a strong caveat: such administrative communications are 
permissible “provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2020-
60; OML 2019-78; OML 2013-5.2 
 Here, we questioned the Subcommi ttee’s Chair regarding his comment on the Facebook 
poll and any conversations he may have had with the other members of the Subcommittee 
regarding the King Phillips Mill during this time period. The Chair stated that he called the two 
other members of the Subcommittee while he was determining whether or not to convene a 
meeting on the topic of the contamination at the King Phillips Mill.3 The Chair asserts that 
during the two phone calls he did not discuss the substance of the matter with either member of 
the Subcommittee; rather, he asked each member when he would be available if the Chair 
decided to schedule a meeting on the topic. The Chair explained that in his comment on Mr. 
Dias’s poll, he merely sought to inform the public that he and the other members of the 
Subcommittee were aware of the issue and that the Subcommittee would be holding meetings on 
a variety of topics which constituents brought to the Subcommittee members’ attention. Absent 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 As a State Representative hosted a comprehensive meeting regarding the King Phillip Mill shortly thereafter, the 
Subcommittee did not hold its own meeting regarding this issue. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s statement and find that the Subcommittee 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-132; OML 2016-58.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that the Subcommittee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Chase 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Collin Dias (via e-mail: ) 
 Fall River City Council Subcommi ttee of Health and Environmental Affairs c/o Chair 
 
Lee (via e-mail: tlee@fallriverma.org ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
