===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 52 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street  
Springfield, MA 01103 
 
bcoyle@baconwilson.com 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Coyle:  
 
On January 2, 2024 and January 12, 2024, this office received two complaints from 
Roxanne Gunther, alleging that the Monson Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were originally filed with the Board on 
December 1 and December 7.
1  You responded on behalf of the Board by letters dated December 
22 and December 29, respectively.  The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by approving contracts for Fire Chief, Police Chief and Town Administrator in 
executive session.  She further alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to disclose the amount of bonuses or salary raises for the three individuals.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further review.  We also reviewed the 
notices and minutes of meetings held on November 13 (both open session and executive session) 
and November 14.  Finally, we viewed a video recording of the Board’s November 14 meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  Duri ng the fall of 2023, the Board convened in executive 
session under Purpose 2 on at least seven occasions to conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 Recordings of the Board meetings can be accessed at https://m-
pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=2  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
for contract negotiations.  On November 13, the Board entered executive session and discussed 
the latest drafts of the contracts.  Following that discussion, a roll call vote was taken to re-enter 
open session.  Having returned to open session, a motion was made and passed to approve each 
of the three contracts.  At its November 14 meeting, the Board announced completion of contract 
negotiations with the three contract employees.  Board Chair Patricia Oney explained that the 
Board had “met multiple times and negotiated with each one of the three people” and “conducted 
discussions among ourselves.”  Chair Oney further stated: “The three of us have voted to 
approve all 3 of the contracts.  Procedurally what happens now is Town Counsel needs to take a 
look at the contracts to make sure that there aren’t any legal issues that we have missed and then 
they will be signed by the prospective employees.”
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  All meetings of a public body must be open to the public 
unless the body has a purpose to enter executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may 
only address subjects that fit within one of the ten enumerated purposes and that relate to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
District Att’y for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 
663, 666 (1981).  One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”); OML 2023-78; OML 2011-56.4  The scope of Purpose 2 is limited to the 
discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to the execution of a contract.  See 
OML 2023-78.  The Open Meeting Law does not permit a public body to execute a contract 
behind closed doors where the public cannot witness the agreement.  A public body may reach 
an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session but it must subsequently vote to 
approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.  See OML 2023-78; OML 2021- 187; OML 
2011-44.  A public body does not violate the Open Meeting Law where it reaches consensus on 
the terms of an employment contract in executive session, even taking a vote to confirm that 
consensus, and then formally approves the contract in open session.  See OML 2019-51; OML 
2015-184.  Although salary may be discussed in executive session as part of contract 
negotiations, we have said that “other discussions related to salary, such as a discussion about 
whether an employee's job performance merits a bonus or salary increase, must be conducted in 
open session.”  See Frequently Asked Questions, accessible at www.mass.gov/info-
details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-
about-evaluations-.  See also OML  2014-30; OML 2013-91. 
 
 The Board entered executive session on multiple occasions in October and November 
2023 to negotiate the contracts with the Fire Chief, Police Chief and Town Administrator.  After 
 
3 The announcement was made approximately 25 minutes 30 seconds into the meeting 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
reaching agreement on the terms of these contracts, the Board approved the contracts in open 
session, subject to final review by Town Counsel.  The Board did not discuss job performance 
evaluations of these three employees or whether they merited a salary increase or bonus.  
Therefore, we find that the discussions in executive session, which pertained to contract 
negotiations, fell within a proper statutory purpose.  Furthermore, the Board properly returned to 
open session to approve the contracts. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Roxanne Gunther (via e-mail: )  
 Monson Town Administrator (via e -mail: 
jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov) 
 Monson Select Board (via email:  townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
