===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
August 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 167 
 
Christopher Blair 
Chair, Monterey Conservation Commission 
435 Main Road, P.O. Box 308 
Monterey, MA 01245 
 
By email only:   
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Blair: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Susan M. Smith on May 26, 2022, 
alleging that the Monterey Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on May 4, and the Commission responded by letter dated May 20.
1 The complaint alleges that 
the Commission discussed topics that were not listed on the meeting notice for its April 12 
meeting.
2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing a reasonably anticipated topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of Commission meetings held on March 8 and April 12. Finally, we 
corresponded with Chair Christopher Blair and Attorney Smith on several occasions in June and 
July of 2022.  
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it limited public 
participation during a meeting held on March 8. We note that the Open Meeting Law does not require t hat a public 
body allow public participation during its meetings. G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law permits the chair 
of a public body to decide whether to allow for public participation, and if so, to set limitations on participation. See  
OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much 
public participation as time and circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129. As public participation is 
discretionary, this allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, 
we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is empowered to determine whether a site 
or proposed project is subject to the Wetlands Protection Act, G.L. c. 131, §40, and accordingly 
issue Determinations of Applicability. During the Commission’s March 8 meeting, the 
Commission considered a Request for Determination of Applicability (“RDA”) filed regarding 
the construction and maintenance of a dock at 153 Hupi Road. Representatives of the applicant 
were present and provided revised plans. Attorney Smith was also in attendance as a 
representative of the abutter and expressed concern with the proposal. 
 
After reviewing the plans and statements, Chair Blair explained that the location of the 
dock was not subject to the Wetlands Protection Act, and, by extension, was not under the 
Commission’s jurisdiction. Instead, he asserted it was governed by the Massachusetts Public 
Waterfront Act, G.L. c. 91. Based on this assessment of the project, the Commission voted to 
approve the revised plans via a Negative Determination of Applicability “with the condition that 
the Determination of Applicability will not be released until an agreement between both parties 
has been confirmed.”  
 
On March 29, the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, April 
12 at 6:00 P.M. The Town of Monterey’s website indicates that the notice was amended on 
March 31 and April 7. The final version listed fourteen topics including eight “hearings and 
meetings” to review various projects. One such project was continued from the Commission’s 
March 8 meeting. However, the dock proposed for 153 Hupi Road was not listed on the posted 
agenda.  
 
On April 4, Chair Blair emailed Cara Tryon, a representative of the applicant, an excerpt 
of the March 8 meeting minutes that captured the Commission’s discussion of the RDA filed for 
153 Hupi Road. Ms. Tyron responded and asked, “Do I need to refile to have this revisited at the 
next meeting?” Copying Attorney Smith, Commission Members Tim Lovett and Dave Dempsey, 
and others, Chair Blair answered Ms. Tryon as follows: “No need to refile. If you provide the 
plan that meets your clients’ approval, that will be more than sufficient. . .. You all filed for a 
dock on the property. Just good form to have the approved local drawing be similar to that filed 
for the Chapter 91 license.” Lastly, Attorney Smith responded to ask whether the Commission 
was still awaiting an agreement between the applicant and abutter to release the Determination in 
accordance with its March 8 vote. Chair Blair did not reply, nor did any other member of the 
Commission.  
 
The April 12 meeting was held as planned and began with six of the eight noticed 
projects. The Commission then moved through other agenda items before returning to the two 
remaining projects. After those were completed, the Commission turned to the RDA filed 
regarding 153 Hupi Road. The minutes capture the discussion as follows: “General Discussion 
about the applicant and the abutter not attending the meeting or providing information or 
updates. Only communication was from Brind attorney. Discussed releasing the approved WPA 
Form 2 DA to the applicant.” Subsequently, the Commission released the Negative 
Determination of Applicability to the applicant. 
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
DISCUSSION  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, the date and 
time that the notice was posted, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id; see also 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d); OML 2011-45. The list of topics shall have 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.
3   
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission ended its April 12 meeting with a discussion 
of the RDA filed regarding 153 Hupi Road, a topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. 
There is no dispute that the topic was not listed on the notice for the April 12 meeting; however, 
the Commission disputes that the topic was anticipated for discussion. Notwithstanding our 
communications with the Commission’s Chair and our review of the April 12 meeting minutes, 
we have been unable to determine how the topic arose during the April 12 meeting or who 
introduced it. Nonetheless, based on the outcome of the March 8 meeting and email 
communications a week prior to the April 12 meeting, we conclude that the RDA regarding 153 
Hupi Road was a topic reasonably anticipated for discussion at the April 12 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a meeting notice include a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see also 
OML 2021-121. Here, during its March 8 meeting the Commission voted to approve the 
application for the dock via a Negative Determination of Applicability, but to withhold release of 
the Determination until the applicant and abutter reached agreement on related matters. On April 
4, the Commission’s Chair emailed a representative of the applicant, copying the other 
Commission members, to confirm the decision reached at the March 8 meeting. That 
representative responded by asking whether she needed to refile to have the matter revisited at 
the Commission’s next meeting, i.e., the April 12 meeting. The representative represented that 
she was working on a final revision of the plans, per the abutter’s request, and did not intend to 
change the plans further. The Commission’s Chair responded that there was no need to refile.  
Later that day, the abutter’s attorney responded stating that she looked forward to receiving the 
revised plans and “putting this whole matter behind us very quickly.” Based on the status of the 
matter following the March 8 meeting, and the email correspondence exchanged on April 4 
which specifically conveyed to the Chair a desire to have the matter revisited and resolved at the 
next meeting, we find that the 153 Hupi Road application was reasonably anticipated for 
discussion at the April 12 meeting. See OML 2021-146 (explaining that where a topic had been 
brought to the chair’s attention and was something that clearly required addressing in the near 
future, the topic was “reasonably” anticipated for discussion at the next meeting); OML 2021-
146 (“The Open Meeting Law’s ‘reasonably anticipates’ standard requires that the chair, or other 
individual delegated to create the meeting notice, make some reasonable effort to ascertain what 
the public body will discuss at a meeting and include sufficient detail about those topics on the 
notice for the meeting.”). Therefore, the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
discussed and voted to release the 153 Hupi Road Determination despite the topic not having 
been included on the notice for the April 12 meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a reasonably anticipated topic not listed on the meeting notice. We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Commission that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Because the Board had fully discussed and 
reached a decision on the Determination of Applicability at its prior meeting, and the only action 
taken at the April 12 meeting was approving release of the Determination, we order no further 
remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Caitlyn Galvin, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc:
 Attorney Susan M. Smith (via e-mail: ssmithlaw@barringtonlawoffice.com) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
