===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 20, 2022 
 
OML 2022 - 98 
 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq.  
Office of the City Solicitor 
Everett City Hall 
484 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
 RE: Open Me eting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This determination addresses six complaints from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the 
Everett City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  In 
total, Mr. Fitzgerald filed approximately 200 separate Open Meeting Law complaints with public 
bodies in Everett over the course of approximately a year and a half.  The complaints addressed 
herein are dated August 1, August 2, August 25 (two complaints), September 2, and September 
29, 2021.
1,2  The allegation(s) of each complaint are described below. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Complaints dated August 1, 2021, and September 2, 2021 
 
The complaint dated August 1, 2021, alleges that Councilor Richard Dell Isola did not 
complete the required Open Meeting Law certification form.  The complaint dated September 2, 
2021, alleges that all 11 Councilors failed to timely complete Open Meeting Law certifications.  
In particular, the complainant asserts in the September 2 complaint that he received the 
Councilors’ certifications on August 10 and 12 in response to a public records request, and that 
the certifications contained various errors and inconsistencies demonstrating that the Councilors 
did not timely complete their certifications.   
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Council and other public bodies in 
Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints for tracking 
purposes.  This determination addresses complaints 71, 72, 73, 74, 77, and 79. 

===PAGE 2===
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
law and its application pursuant to section 19 .... The certification shall be evidence that the 
member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and 
the consequences of violating it.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).   
 
The Council did not respond to the August 1 complaint or to follow-up correspondence, 
which we construe as an acknowledgement that Councilor Dell Isola had not completed the 
required Open Meeting Law certification.  In response to the September 2 complaint, the Council 
acknowledged that Councilors had not completed certifications.  The council explained that upon 
discovering that certifications were not on file, the City Clerk distributed the required Open 
Meeting Law educational materials and certification form to each Councilor, and each Councilor 
completed and returned the certification form accordingly.  Therefore, we find—as the Council 
acknowledges—that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law in this regard.  We understand 
that the City Clerk subsequently provided the Open Meeting Law educational materials and 
certification form to each Councilor and that each Councilor has since completed the 
certification.  Therefore, we order no further remedial action but take this opportunity to remind 
the Council that each Councilor must sign an Open Meeting Law certification within two weeks 
of qualifying for office, including following re-election to a subsequent term. 
 
Complaints dated August 2 and August 25, 2021 
 
The August 2 complaint and August 25 complaint each allege that the City Council held 
a meeting at which Councilors participated remotely, but the Council did not take all votes by 
roll call.  The August 2 complaint pertains to a meeting held on August 2, 2021, and the August 
25 complaint pertains to a meeting held on August 23, 2021.  The Council did not respond to the 
August 2 complaint or to follow-up correspondence from our office.  The Council responded to 
the August 25 complaint and explained that all votes that had a “binding effect,” such as a vote 
on a motion to approve the transfer of funds, a vote to ordain a measure to become an ordinance, 
or an approval of a mayoral appointment, were conducted by roll call.  Other votes, such as to 
refer an item to a subcommittee or to invite a speaker to speak before the Council, were 
conducted by visual affirmation, such as a “thumbs up.”    
 
We previously explained to the Council in determination OML 2021-87, which was 
iss
ued to the Council on July 2, 2021, that the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
Regulations require that “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates 
remotely must be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2015-145, OML 2021-9.  
The law requires that the Council conduct its votes by roll call when a member participates 
remotely, even where the result of a vote is unanimous or otherwise clear.  See OML 2021-9; 
OML 2016-132; OML 2015-131.  Accordingly, because the Council failed to conduct some 
votes by roll call during both meetings at issue, we find that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 3===
Although we are concerned about the Council’s continued failure to comply with the roll 
call vote requirement merely a month after having been notified and warned of this very matter, 
we are cognizant that the very high volume of Open Meeting Law complaints received around 
this period of time, many of which were meritless and many others of which were duplicative, 
and a correspondingly large number of determination letters sent by our office as a result, may 
have resulted in our guidance not receiving the attention it deserved.  Therefore, we reiterate this 
requirement; order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements; and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law and may result in the imposition of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional 
violation. 
 
 
Second complaint dated August 25, 2021 
 
The second complaint dated August 25, 2021, alleges that the City Council did not 
respond to a prior Open Meeting Law complaint that was filed with it on August 3, 2021 (the 
complaint dated August 2 discussed above).  The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, 
a public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the 
Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  The Council did not respond to this complaint or to follow-up 
correspondence, and our office has no record of receiving a response from the Council to the 
August 2 complaint.  Therefore, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to the August 2 complaint.
3   
 
Complaint dated September 29, 2021 
 
Finally, the September 29 complaint alleges that the Council posted an insufficiently 
specific notice for a special meeting of the Council held on September 29.  The notice, which 
was posted on September 27, 2021, at 5:50 PM for a meeting to be held on September 29, 2021, 
at 7:30 PM, included a single topic:  
 
1. C0323-21 Order/s/Councilor Wayne A. Matewsky, As President 
According to the provisions of the City Charter Section 3-5(b), I hereby call a 
special meeting of the City Council to propose an amendment to the City of 
Everett Zoning Ordinance to expand the area of the Lower Broadway Economic 
Development District 
 
 
3 On February 18, 2022, by which time Mr. Fitzgerald had filed approximately 200 separate Open Meeting Law 
complaints with public bodies in Everett, we issued a letter explaining that the Division of Open Government would 
thereafter decline to review any complaints alleging that Everett public bodies had failed to review or respond to 
prior complaints. We explained that the Division would contact the applicable public body for any needed 
information in the course of its review and investigation of Open Meeting Law complaints.   
 
===PAGE 4===
The complaint alleges that no details regarding the meeting topic were posted in advance of the 
meeting, and that during the meeting several Councilors expressed concern that they had no 
information about the topic on which they were being asked to vote, and in particular had no 
information about the proposed uses for the site at issue.   
 
The Open Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that meeting notices “shall contain ... a 
listin
g of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).  These topics must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the 
public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion.  
See OML 2019-70.  A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to 
comply with the law's requirements.  See OML 2019-134.  Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law 
does not require that a public body attach supporting documents to a meeting notice nor that it 
publicly post a “meeting packet” that contains such documents.  See OML 2021-181.  Finally, 
when reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, we do not review a meeting notice standing 
alone unless it is clearly insufficient on its face.  See OML 2021-180; OML 2015-109.  Rather, 
we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently 
specific. 
 
Her
e, we acknowledge that additional detail about the specific parcel and proposed use 
might have been helpful to the public and indeed to the Councilors as well.  Nonetheless, a 
meeting notice need not include each and every detail about a topic in order to satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law’s specificity requirement.  After reviewing a video of the September 29 meeting,
4 
we find that the topic as listed on the meeting notice, “to propose an amendment to the City of 
Everett Zoning Ordinance to expand the area of the Lower Broadway Economic Development 
District,” was sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the issue discussed, which 
was making a proposal to the Planning Board to expand the Lower Broadway Economic 
Development District to facilitate redevelopment and the generation of additional tax revenue for 
the City.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely complete Open Meeting Law certifications, failing to vote by roll call during 
meetings when Councilors participated remotely, and failing to respond to a prior Open Meeting 
Law complaint.  We acknowledge that the Open Meeting Law violations addressed in this letter, 
as well as those identified in several prior determination letters, occurred in 2020 and 2021 and 
that several new Councilors have been elected to the Council since that time.  However, due to 
the extent and breadth of Open Meeting Law violations that our office has found here and in our 
review of prior complaints, and to ensure future compliance with the Law and transparency for 
the public, we order all members of the City Council to attend a comprehensive Open 
 
4 A video of the Council’s September 29, 2021, meeting is available online at 
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/cT30AQ_xtOBQF0oJM2gIVCDX9kjgfWZb/playlists/8520/media/672342?se
quenceNumber=29&autostart=false&showtabssearch=true. 
===PAGE 5===
Meeting Law training presented by our office or by the City Solicitor's Office. Attendance
at an Open Meeting Law training after January 1, 2022, shall satisfy this requirement. The
Council shall certify to our office, within 90 days of receipt of this letter, that all Councilors have
attended an Open Meeting Law training.
In addition, we order the Council's immediate and future compliance with the Open
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you have any
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:
Everett City Council (via e-mail:
5 The Division of Open Government regularly presents Open Meeting Law webinar trainings. Information on
upcoming webinars is available at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-trainings.