===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       April 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 50 
 
 
Fairhaven Board of Public Works 
 c/o Chair Brian Wotton 
5 Arsene Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
 
By email only: bpw@Fairhaven-MA.gov  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Wotton: 
 
This office received a complaint from Tobie Simmons on September 1, 2023, alleging 
that the Fairhaven Board of Public Works (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 4, 2023, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 11, 2023.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board created insufficient minutes of the meeting held on May 8, 2023.
1  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.2  In 
 
1 The complaint further alleges that the Board created insufficient minutes of all meetings “related to the Water 
Department’s town-wide upgrade to their water metering system, going back to the beginning of this project in 
October 2021.”  The Board held 43 meetings between October 2021 and the time the complaint was filed in July 
2023.  We decline to review whether all 43 sets of meeting minutes are sufficiently specific as our office will not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See  OML 2013-180; OML 2012-106.  
Therefore, we limit our review to the minutes of the May 8, 2023, meeting which are specifically referenced in the 
complaint. 
2 In her request for further review, the complainant states that the Board ignored her requests for information and 
requests to opt out of a particular aspect of the town-wide water meter upgrade project, and that the Town Clerk 
failed to provide executive session minutes in response to requests.  The Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, we decline to review any 
potential water meter issues, and offer no opinion on whether any actions taken by the Board c ould be a violation of 
some other law or regulation outside the scope of the Division’s review.  In addition, the Open Meeting Law does 
not govern a public body’s response to a request for records other than meeting minutes.  See  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), 
(e); OML Declination 8-19-13 (Southwick Board of Selectmen).  Therefore, failure to timely respond to requests for 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
addition, we reviewed the notice, original and revised minutes of the Board meeting held on May 
8, 2023, and video recording of the May 8, 2023, meeting.3   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
May 8, 2023.  The notice included ten topics, one of which was “Appointments.”  The notice 
then listed a specific item description that further advised the public of the topic to be discussed 
which was “Tobie Simmons, 97 Farmfield Street – Water Meter.” 
 
 The May 8, 2023, meeting was held as planned.  After approving two sets of meeting 
minutes, the Board invited Ms. Simmons, the complainant, to the table where Board members 
were sitting.  The Superintendent of Public Works provided a brief history of the town’s decision 
to upgrade and replace water meters at residential properties.  The complainant provided the 
Board with three separate documents totaling seven pages and then read a prepared statement, 
which took approximately seventeen minutes.  The Board heard from one other individual who 
lived at 97 Farmfield Street and then discussed the notification letters that had been sent to 
residents regarding the replacement of water meters and the non-ionizing radiation aspect of 
replacement water meters.  The Board agreed that they wished to find a resolution and tabled the 
matter until the next meeting. 
 
 The minutes of the May 8, 2023, meeting, which were approved on June 5, 2023, state 
that “Ms. Simmons read a statement to the Board” but do not summarize the nature of the 
statement.  In addition, the minutes include two references to “Discussion ensued amongst all 
present” without summarizing either discussion.  The first “Discussion” lasted approximately 
seven minutes and included discussions relating to the non-ionizing radiation aspect of the water 
meter, the potential placement of a new meter away from a resident’s house, the three letters that 
were sent out to residents advising them of the need to replace water meters, and the Board’s 
willingness to negotiate a resolution with the complainant.  The second “Discussion” lasted 
approximately four minutes and included discussions involving the age of the current water 
meters, that the meters needed to be changed because they do not function accurately, and that 
the three letters sent out to residents were approved by town legal counsel.  We note that 
sometime after the minutes were approved, the Board amended the minutes to include the three 
documents provided to the Board by the complainant during the May 8, 2023, meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
 
documents other than minutes concerns a potential violation of the Public Records Law, rather than the Open 
Meeting Law.  Moreover, a request for meeting minutes that is directed to a public body will trigger the Open 
Meeting Law, whereas a request for minutes that is directed to a municipal employee, such as the Town Clerk, will 
likely trigger the Public Records Law.  See OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68.  Therefore, even if taken as true, these 
allegations would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
3 A video recording of the Board meeting held on May 8, 2023, is available at 
https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7985772/videos/236139582.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
4  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the May 8, 2023, meeting are insufficient as 
they fail to accurately summarize comments made by the complainant during the meeting.  
During the meeting, the complainant read a prepared statement that took approximately 17 
minutes, but the minutes simply state that the complainant “read a statement to the Board.”  A 
public body is not required to capture every comment made during a meeting in order to 
substantially comply with the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-
4; OML 2019-136.  However, where a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only 
one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and their comments should be 
identified in the minutes.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2015-49.  Here, the complainant was 
specifically listed on the notice, was present at the meeting, and spoke at length; thus, the 
minutes should, at the very least, summarize the nature of the 17-minute statement she made to 
the Board.  See, e.g. OML 2023-226 and OML 2023-56 (minutes were insufficient where they 
did not summarize public comments at all); OML 2021-190 and OML 2021-137 (minutes were 
insufficient where they captured questions asked during a public hearing but only specified that 
the questions were responded to, without summarizing the responses).  By failing to include any 
summary of the complainant’s statement, the Board created insufficient minutes and violated the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
In addition, we find the minutes to be insufficient where they do not include a summary 
of certain of the Board’s discussions.  The minutes note twice that a “Discussion ensued amongst 
all present” but provide no summary of either discussion.  Minutes must include more than a 
statement that a discussion was held about a specified topic; the minutes must summarize the 
discussions that were held.  See OML 2023-16; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  As such, the 
substance of the Board’s discussions must be summarized in the minutes.  We otherwise find that 
the minutes adequately capture the substance of the discussions that occurred so that a member 
of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have an understanding 
of what occurred.  See OML 2020-113.   
 
We take this opportunity to advise the Board of the Attorney General’s recommendations 
as to best practices for drafting meeting minutes.  In particular, when summarizing discussions, 
we encourage public bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions whenever possible.  
Where significant debate on a matter occurs and it is clear that one or more members of the body 
and/or the public disagree with the decision ultimately taken by the public body, public bodies 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/t he-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
should note the opposing viewpoints in the meeting minutes.  See OML 2014-108; OML 2013-
47; OML 2012-29.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating and approving insufficiently detailed minutes of the meeting held on May 8, 2023.  We 
order the Board to revise and approve the minutes of the May 8, 2023, meeting within thirty (30) 
days of this letter in accordance with the guidance provided above.  In addition, we order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
        
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Tobie Simmons – By email only:  
Fairhaven Town Clerk – By email only: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
