===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 19, 2016 
OML 2016-131 
Amy Jeschawitz, Chair 
Williamstown Planning Board 
31 North Street 
Williamstown, MA 01267 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Jeschawitz: 
This office received a complaint from David Leja, dated June 22, alleging that the 
Williamstown Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 9, and the Board responded 
by letter dated May 16. In his complaint, Mr. Leja stated that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting. 2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of two Board 
meetings held on April 28 and May 4. Finally, we reviewed e-mail correspondence between 
Board member Ann McCallum and Director of Community Development Andrew Groff, dated 
May 2. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. During the time 
period relevant to this complaint, the Board consisted of Amy Jeschawitz, Sarah Gardner, Ann 
McCallum, Elizabeth McGowan, and Christopher Winters. On April 28, the Board held a 
meeting during which it discussed a proposed pro ject at the Waubeeka Golf Club Inn in 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Though not included in the complaint filed with the Board, the request for further review filed with our office 
alleges that an individual associated with the Board harassed the complainant after the present complaint was filed. 
Because this allegation was not included in the original complaint, we do not review it now. See OML Declination 
5-6-13 (Worthington Board of Selectmen). However, we note that any such harassment, even if proven true, would 
not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. As such, the Division would not review 
this allegation. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
Williamstown. Part of the discussion concerned a proposed new town bylaw that would allow 
for a larger hotel. 
Following the April 28 meeting. Board members Sarah Gardner and Ann McCallum met 
to revise a draft bylaw that would allow for a larger hotel and could get the support of the voters 
while also meeting the Board's other objectives, such as "not overwhelming the site." On May 2, 
Ms. McCallum sent Director of Community Development Andrew Groff a copy of the revised 
bylaw by e-mail, asking him to review it. On this same date, Mr. Groff e-mailed all Board 
members stating that the revised bylaw was available on the Board's shared website for their 
review. 
The Board held its next meeting on May 4. When the discussion turned to the revised 
bylaw, Ms. Jeschawitz stated that Mr. Groff had worked on the draft, now called the "Gardner 
Amendment" and Ms. McGowan made a motion that the Board adopt this version of the bylaw. 
The Board then discussed the merits of the changes made to the bylaw. Ultimately, the Board 
made slight changes to the bylaw and voted, by a margin of 3-2, to send it onto Town Meeting 
for consideration. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and open to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). A "meeting" is "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction, provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is the simple majority of 
the member of a public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that Board members Gardner, McCallum, and McGowan 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to discuss the bylaw at issue. As evidence, the 
complaint points to Ms. McGowan's apparent familiarity with the bylaw prior to the May 4 
discussion as evidence that Ms. McGowan participated in the drafting of the bylaw, along with 
Ms. Gardner and Ms. McCallum. The Board's response to the complaint asserts that only Ms. 
Gardner and Ms. McCallum prepared the bylaw. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the public body's account of events. See OML 2013-174; OML 2011-44. 3 Because the 
work by Ms. Gardner and Ms. McCallum did not constitute deliberation by a quorum of the 
Board, it did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The draft bylaw was 
circulated to all Board members by Mr. Groff prior to the meeting, and it is understandable that 
Ms. McGowan was familiar with its contents. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to 
this allegation. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Leja 
Andrew Groff, Director of Community Development 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 