===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 16,2013 
OML 2013-99 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Robert Belbin, dated March 20, 2012, alleging 
that the Carver Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 27, 
2012, and the Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated March 16, 2012. In his 
complaint, Mr. Belbin alleges that the Board failed to provide him with open and executive 
session meeting minutes within 10 days of his request.1 
Mr. Belbin also raises new allegations in his March 20, 2012 complaint with this office 
that were not included in his February 27, 2012 complaint with the Board. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that "the complainant shall file a written complaint with the public body, setting 
forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity 
to remedy the alleged violation . . G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). This must be done prior to filing a 
complaint with the Attorney General. See id. Thus, we decline to review any allegations raised 
for the first time in the March 20, 2012 complaint. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the February 27, 2012 complaint filed with the 
Board; the Board's March 16, 2012 response; and the March 20, 2012 complaint filed with this 
1 The complainant also makes several requests for files and communication records related to matters before the 
Board. Because this request was not for documents used at a meeting of a public body, it is governed by the Public 
Records Law rather than the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation and refer the 
complainant to the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
office. Additionally, we reviewed the minutes of the Board's open session meetings on 
December 15, 2011; January 26, 2012; and March 15, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board provided Mr. Belbin with the open session 
minutes he sought, but failed to do so within 10 days, as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(c). We also find that the Board properly initiated a review of confidential 
executive session minutes following a request, but failed to respond to Mr. Belbin within 10 
days, as required by the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On February 
9, 2012, Mr. Belbin requested "meeting minutes, draft and final[,] for all of Case # 11-94[3]" and 
"any [ejxecutive [s]ession [m]eeting [mjinutes approved since January 1, 2010." The Board 
discussed the referenced case during two open session meetings, held on December 15, 2011 and 
January 26, 2012. Following Mr. Belbin's request, the Chair of the Board made the 
corresponding open session minutes available for inspection by members of the public at the 
Town Clerk's office. Mr. Belbin was not notified of their availability, however. On March 16, 
2012, the Board mailed the open session minutes from the December 15, 2011 and January 26, 
2012 meetings to Mr. Belbin. 
With regard to the requested executive session minutes, at the time of Mr. Belbin's 
February 9, 2012 request, the Board had not released responsive executive session minutes for 
public review. The Board responded to the complainant on March 16, 2012, stating that, "the 
ZBA Chair intends to review the minutes of any executive sessions held during the requested 
time period to determine whether continued non-disclosure is warranted ... If the Chair 
determines that any minutes are suitable for release at this time, copies will be provided to you." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that, "[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Mr. Belbin submitted his request for meeting minutes on February 
9, 2012, and the Board responded on March 16, 2012. Although the Board did not respond 
within 10 days, we understand there was some confusion at the Board regarding the manner in 
which public bodies must provide requested minutes to members of the public. The Board 
thought it was responding to Mr. Belbin's request by making the minutes generally available to 
the public. But the Board did not notify Mr. Belbin directly that it was doing so, and waited a 
month before mailing Mr. Belbin copies of the minutes. Public bodies must respond directly to 
the person requesting open session meeting minutes within 10 days of a request. Failure to do so 
2 
===PAGE 3===
constitutes a violation the Open Meeting Law. As we have not previously provided written 
guidance on the issue, however, we do not find this was an intentional violation of the Law. 
With regard to the executive session minutes, a public body must respond to requests for 
executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has 
determined, prior to the request, that certain executive session minutes should be released, it 
should respond to the requester directly, notifying him or her of the availability of those minutes. 
If the body has determined that executive session minutes should remain confidential because 
publication would defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, it should respond by 
stating the reason why the minutes continue to be withheld. And if, at the time of a request, the 
public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued non-
disclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if 
appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body should still respond to the requestor within 10 
days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. 
The executive session minutes requested by Mr. Belbin remained confidential on the date 
of his request. The Board acted properly by initiating a review of responsive executive session 
minutes; however, the Board failed to respond to the complainant within 10 days, as required by 
the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). The Board did not communicate the status 
of its review to the complainant until March 16, 2012. We remind the Board that, in the future, 
this communication must occur within 10 days of the request. 
We also remind the Board that executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Public bodies have an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). We acknowledge that, since this complaint was filed, the 
Board has met with Town Counsel and "received instructions as to how to meet its 
responsibilities for reviewing and releasing executive session minutes . . ." 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to the complainant's request for open and executive session minutes within 10 
days. We order immediate and future compliance with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
2 We note that in a prior determination, we also found that the Board failed to provide open session minutes within 
10 days of a request. OML 2012-18. Because that determination was issued after the events discussed in this 
complaint occurred, we do not find it to be evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. See 940 CMR 29.02. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the Board, 
letter to be 
Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Carver Zoning Board of Appeals 
Robert Belbin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 