===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 4, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 127 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Marc L. Terry, Esq. 
Mirick O’Connell 
mterry@mirickoconnell.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
 
This office received a complaint from Julie Garell on February 2, 2023, alleging that the 
Swansea School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about November 15, 
2022, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 29, 2022.
1 The 
complaint alleges that a portion of the Committee’s November 14 meeting was inaccessible to 
individuals accessing the meeting remotely. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the November 14 meeting, 
and a video recording of the meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
The Committee is a five-member public body; therefore, three members constitute a 
quorum. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 14. The notice 
listed the location of the meeting as “Swansea School Administration Building Norman B. Smith 
School Committee Room One Gardners Neck Road Swansea, MA 02777.” As part of the first 
notice topic, “Call to order,” the notice stated that “School Committee Meetings are broadcast 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s November 14 meeting may be found at 
https://vimeo.com/channels/1505236/771166279. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
live, and also recorded for broadcast . . . on Swansea Cable Access Channel 15. Meetings can 
also be accessed over the internet https://swanseacn.com.”  
 
During the November 14 meeting the Committee received a presentation regarding an 
outdoor classroom. At the conclusion of the presentation, the Committee took a brief recess 
during which time the video broadcast of the meeting continued but the audio was muted. This 
recess lasted approximately three minutes, during which time a few individual members of the 
public approached various members of the Committee and held brief discussions. These 
discussions were not audible to individuals accessing the meeting remotely.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a del iberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. (emphasis added). A “quorum” is generally “a simple majority of the members 
of the public body.” Id. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.
3 Section 20 of 
Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures 
Adopted During the State of Emergency, temporarily suspended the requirement under the Open 
Meeting Law that meetings be held at a physical location that is accessible to the public as long 
as a public body instead provides “adequate, alternative means” of access to its meetings through 
technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings as they occur.
4  
 
The complaint alleges that “[d]uring the [l]ive [b]roadcast of the November 14, 2022 
school committee meeting, the microphones were turned off for a period of time and members of 
the school committee could be seen talking to members of the public. As a resident watching 
from home I was unable to access this portion of the open meeting.” As remedial action, the 
complaint requests, in part, that the Committee “explain to the public what they were discussing 
with members of the community during this time.” 
 
We have consistently stated that Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, as 
am
ended and extended, does not require a public body to provide remote access to its meetings if 
those meetings are instead held in-person at a location that is open and physically accessible to 
the public. See OML 2023-52; OML 2021-147. Because the notice for the November 14 meeting 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 These provisions have been extended several times since their inception, most recently on March 29, 2023,  when 
Governor Maura Healey signed into law a supplemental budget bill which further extended the expiration of the 
temporary provisions to March 31, 2025. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
clearly stated that the meeting would be held in person at the Swansea School Administration 
Buildi
ng, with the meeting broadcast live as an additional means of access, and because there is 
no allegation that the physical meeting location was inaccessible, we find that the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. See OML 2023-52; OML 2023-43; OML 2021-76. 
Although public bodies are not required to provide multiple methods of access to their meetings, 
we encourage public bodies to do so, as the Committee did in this instance.  
 
Additionally, we note
  that, in general, communications between a member of a public 
body and a member of the public do not constitute deliberation and therefore are not subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-113 (“Because the communications were between only 
one Commission member and a member of the public, who is not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, such communications did not constitute deliberation.”); OML 2021-66 (comments made by 
a public body member to a member of the public explaining the public body member’s reasoning 
and concerns did not constitute deliberation).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: James Carvalho, Chair, Swansea School Committee (via email: 
jcarvalho@swanseaschools.org) 
Diane Pelland, Swansea Town Clerk (via email: dpelland@town.swansea.ma.us) 
Julie Garell (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
