===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 43 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
William Meeker  
Chair, Brookfield Conservation Commission 
concomm@brookfieldma.us  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Meeker: 
 
This office received three complaints from Christopher Kelleher alleging that the 
Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were filed with the Commission on or about August 16, 21, 
and 29, 2024.1 You responded to each of the complaints by separate emails sent on September 
30, and Mr. Kelleher requested further review of the complaints by our office on September 30 
and October 2. The three complaints relate to the Commission’s August 15 meeting and together 
they allege as follows: 1) the notice for the August 15 meeting included an insufficiently specific 
topic with respect to discussion of candidates to serve on the Commission; 2) the meeting notice 
failed to identify the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session; and 3) the 
Commission discussed a topic that was not included on the meeting notice.2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including insufficiently specific notice topics with respect to its discussion of candidates to serve 
on the Commission and its executive session. We find that the Commission did not otherwise 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Commission’s responses, the requests for further review, and a 
video recording of a portion of the Commission’s August 15 meeting provided to our office by 
 
1 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
2 When all allegations raised relate to the same meeting or are of a similar nature it is more efficient to file one Open 
Meeting Law complaint setting forth all allegations. We encourage the Complainant to consolidate complaints 
where possible. If more space is needed to describe the alleged violations than the complaint form itself provides, 
additional pages may be appended.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Complainant. We also reviewed the notices for the August 15 meeting as well as open and 
executive session minutes for the meeting. Finally, we communicated with Chair William 
Meeker3 and Vice-Chair Sarah Campbell via email on several occasions.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on August 15 at 6:00 p.m. Relevant here, the notice included the following topics: “Conservation 
Commission Candidate Discussion”; “Executive Session 3-To discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares”; and “Financials - 
MACC Annual Dues invoice.” The notice did not include a topic related to safety vests.  
 
The meeting notice, originally posted on August 6, was amended several times between 
August 13 and 15. Relevant here, the notice was amended at the following times and in the 
following ways on August 13: 11:50 a.m., the date and time of the meeting were changed from 
August 14 at 6:30 p.m. to August 15 at 6:00 p.m.; 11:51 a.m., the meeting location was changed; 
12:15 p.m. the agenda was amended and the name “Steve Karman” was added to the notice topic 
“Conservation Commission Candidate Discussion”; 1:03 p.m. the agenda was amended by Chair 
Meeker, the name “Steve Karman” was still included in relation to the notice topic 
“Conservation Commission Candidate Discussion”; 1:05 p.m. the agenda was amended by Chair 
Meeker to remove the name “Steve Karman” from the notice topic “Conservation Commission 
Candidate Discussion.” The notice was amended three more times, but the topic “Conservation 
Commission Candidate Discussion” was not further amended.5  
 
 During the August 15 meeting the Commission interviewed two candidates interested in 
serving on the Commission—Steve Karman and Liana Gozdowski. Later in the meeting, the 
Commission voted to convene in executive session to discuss a litigation matter. Because the 
minutes of the executive session have not yet been released to the public, we do not recount their 
content in detail here and only note that the Commission discussed strategy with respect to a 
pending litigation matter. Finally, after returning to open session and discussing another matter, 
the Commission turned to the topic “Financials - MACC Annual Dues invoice” and discussed 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 As part of our investigation, we requested that the Commission provide our office with the minutes of its August 
15 executive session. After two additional follow-up emails from our office and one month after our initial request, 
the Commission provided our office with the executive session minutes. We remind the Commission of its 
obligation to make available to the Division all information necessary for the Division to conduct its investigation. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). Additionally, we understand that the reason the Commission did not provide the executive 
session minutes when requested is that the minutes did not exist. We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting 
Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Furthermore, public bodies are obligated to periodically review executive session 
minutes to determine if the executive session purpose has expired and the minutes must be released to the public. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Finally, public bodies have various obligations regarding review and release of executive 
session minutes in response to a request for such minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). We find it concerning that the 
minutes for the August 15, 2024, executive session may not have existed at the time we requested them in January 
of 2025.  
5 The meeting notice as well as the history of amendments to the notice can be found by navigating to the 
Commission’s page on www.mytowngovernment.org/01506.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
matters related to the Commission’s membership in the Massachusetts Association of 
Conservation Commissions. At the conclusion of this discussion, Chair Meeker stated that while 
the Commission was discussing financials, he also wanted to discuss purchasing safety vests for 
site visits, a topic he noted the Commission had discussed before. The Commission then 
discussed issues surrounding an earlier attempt to purchase safety jackets, the proper procedure 
for making such purchases, and what type of safety vests and badges the Commission wanted to 
purchase. The Commission agreed that Chair Meeker should obtain a quote for safety vests and 
badges and then voted to approve a preliminary budget of $475 for such purchases. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find That the Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law Where the Notice 
Topic “Conservation Commission Candidate Discussion” Was Insufficient; However, 
We Find No Violation with Respect to the Commission’s Discussion of Purchasing 
Safety Vests. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting, not including weekends and holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must 
include, among other things, a list of the topics that the Chair, and any other individual charged 
with creating the meeting notice, reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. The 
list of topics must include “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-
35.6 We have consistently explained that a public body must include on its meeting notice the 
names of the specific individuals who are being considered for employment or appointment, if 
those individuals are known 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2020-80; OML 2016-
167; OML 2011-23. Finally, a public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting 
even if that topic was not included on the meeting notice; however, the Attorney General 
strongly recommends that public bodies table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of 
significant interest to the public in order to include such topics on the notice for a future meeting. 
See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. 
 
First, the Complainant alleges that the notice for the August 15 meeting was insufficient 
where it did not list the individuals who would be considered for appointment to the 
Commission, and where instead Mr. Karman’s name, which had appeared on an earlier version 
of the notice, was removed. In its response to the complaint the Commission asserts that when 
the meeting date and time changed from August 14 at 6:30 p.m. to August 15 at 6:00 p.m. “it 
was unclear which, if any, citizens who had expressed previous interest would be [able] to 
attend. Instead of completely removing the agenda item, we proceeded with those who would be 
able to attend.” We find that the facts do not support the Commission’s explanation. The original 
notice posted for the meeting did not identify any individuals who would be discussed in 
connection with the topic “Conservation Commission Candidate Discussion.” Likewise, the 
amended notices changing the date, time, and location of the meeting continued not to identify 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
any individuals who would be discussed in connection with this topic. Instead, Mr. Karman’s 
name first appeared on the third amended notice, posted on August 13 at 12:15 p.m. It is true that 
in rapid succession thereafter the notice was amended twice more by Chair Meeker, with Mr. 
Karman’s name ultimately being removed from the notice; however, we find that the weight of 
the evidence suggests that it was reasonably anticipated that the Commission would discuss at 
least Mr. Karman’s potential candidacy, which in fact it did. As such, the Commission violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to list Mr. Karman’s name on the meeting notice. To the extent 
the Commission was concerned about listing only one candidate’s name when there was a 
possibility that other candidates would emerge, we note that the Commission could have 
indicated on the notice that it might consider additional candidates not yet anticipated, but it was 
required to include those candidates that were reasonably anticipated. See OML 2024-247.  
 
Next, the Complainant alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed purchasing safety vests where this topic was not included on the notice for the 
August 15 meeting. In response, the Commission asserts that the topic of safety vests was not 
anticipated by the Chair and that it arose during discussion of the topic “Financials - MACC 
Annual Dues invoice.” In the request for further review of the complaint, the Complainant 
asserts, citing to a video recording of a portion of the August 15 meeting provided by the 
Complainant, that because the topic of safety vests was raised by the Chair the topic was clearly 
anticipated. After reviewing the video recording of the August 15 meeting, we do not find 
anything in the video that provides sufficient evidence to contradict Chair Meeker’s assertion 
that he did not reasonably anticipate discussing safety vests at the August 15 meeting 48 hours or 
more prior to that meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s account 
of the facts and find no violation with respect to this allegation. See OML 2022-127; OML 2019-
132; OML 2016-58; see also OML 2022-2 (“Although a Chair generally may be aware that a 
discussion is ongoing, the Open Meeting Law only requires the meeting notice to contain the 
topics the Chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which the notice 
is posted.”).  
 
II. We Find That the Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law Where it Failed to 
Identify the Litigation Matter to be Discussed in Executive Session. 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among those ten enumerated 
purposes is “Purpose 3,” which allows a public body to convene in executive session to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session prior to convening in executive session, in as much detail as 
possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
was proper or improper”). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public 
body must identify the collective bargaining unit with which it will be negotiating or the 
litigation matter it will be discussing, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for 
secrecy. See OML 2019-163; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12. We generally defer to a public 
body’s assessment of whether identifying the litigation matter to be discussed would compromise 
the purpose for the executive session; however, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2024-195; OML 2024-111; OML 2016-
12; OML 2015-14.  
 
The Complainant alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to identify the specific litigation matter it would discuss in executive session. In its response to 
the complaint, the Commission explains that it “felt that it was in the best interest to not disclose 
more information regarding the move to executive session.” Based on our communications with 
Chair Meeker and our in camera review of the minutes of the August 15 executive session, we 
understand that the Commission convened in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation that was pending in Superior Court.  
 
In response to a request from our office for further information and explanation 
demonstrating a reasonable basis for the belief that identifying the litigation matter to be 
discussed would have compromised the purpose for the executive session, Chair Meeker 
explained that the Commission believed that “if we were potentially bringing up litigation, being 
more specific may have potentially given away strategy.” We note that the Board was not 
required to provide any detail regarding its litigation strategy; rather, it was required to identify 
the pending litigation the Commission would discuss, which by its nature was already a matter of 
public record. We find that the Commission has not demonstrated a reasonable basis for its belief 
that simply identifying the pending litigation matter to be discussed could have jeopardized the 
purpose for the executive session. Therefore, we find that the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to identify the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session on 
August 15. See OML 2022-169 (“Identifying the “type” of litigation does not satisfy the 
Committee’s obligation under the Open Meeting Law to identify the particular litigation matters 
to be discussed in executive session, if doing so will not compromise the executive session 
purpose.”); OML 2016-161.7 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law where the notice for its August 15 meeting failed to list the candidate(s) to be considered for 
appointment and failed to identify the specific litigation matter to be discussed in executive 
session. We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate 
the Law. Additionally, because the meeting noticed failed to identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed in executive session, we order the Commission to announce at its next open session 
meeting the specific litigation matter discussed in executive session on August 15.  
 
7 We additionally note that where the notice cited Purpose 3 verbatim and did not include any additional 
information, it was not clear whether the Commission would convene in executive session to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation. In this way, too, the meeting notice was insufficient.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
Brookfield Town Clerk (via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us)  
 Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
