===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 13, 2017 
OML 2017-143 
Brian Maser, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Maser: 
This office received a complaint from Rodney Maloney on May 30, alleging that the 
Hinsdale Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 18, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 10. In his complaint, Mr. Maloney alleges that 
the Board improperly withheld executive session minutes from him.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to release its July 28, 2016 executive session minutes and recording in response to a 
request. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the complainant's request for minutes and the Board's response. Finally, 
we reviewed the notice and executive session minutes of the Board's July 28, 2016 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board generally conducts periodic reviews of its 
executive session minutes on a quarterly basis. On July 28, 2016, the Board convened in 
executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1") "to discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." The complainant in the 
present matter, a Hinsdale police officer, was the subject of the executive session and attended 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Mr. Maloney alleges that throughout this process the Board has treated him differently than other Town 
employees. To the extent Mr. Maloney wishes to pursue a discrimination complaint he may file with the 
Attorney General's Office Civil Rights Division at (617) 963-2917 or the Massachusetts Commission Against 
Discrimination at (617) 994-6000. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
the meeting. On March 6, the complainant sent an email to the Board's administrative 
assistant, requesting a copy of the minutes and recording from the July 28, 2016 executive 
session.3 The Board discussed the request during a March 8 executive session.4 On March 
16, the Board's administrative assistant sent an email to the complainant denying his request 
under the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(a), and the Open Meeting Law, G.L, c. 
3 OA, § 22(f), because "publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session." 
In its response to this complaint, the Board additionally asserts that the records are personnel 
records specifically exempt under the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(c), and 
therefore their release at any time would defeat the purpose of the executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
Executive session minutes and the notes, recordings or other materials used in the 
preparation of such minutes may be withheld from disclosure so long as public release may 
defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session, but no longer, provided that the executive 
session at issue was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); 
OML 2012-115.5 When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the 
minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id. The burden 
of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. 
Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee. 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body or a designee has determined, prior to the request, 
that certain executive session minutes may be released, it should respond to the requester 
directly, notifying him or her of the availability of those minutes. See OML 2013-105; OML 
2013-99. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform 
such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 
30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body 
should still respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting 
this review. See OML 2013-99. 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly withheld the minutes and recording 
of its July 28, 2016 executive session from him. The Board followed the proper procedure for 
responding to a request for executive session minutes. The Board reviewed the response in 
executive session on March 8 and determined that it would not release the minutes and 
recording to the public because it had determined that the records are exempt under the Public 
Records Law, G.L. c. 4, § 7, cl. 26(a), and the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), and 
therefore their public release would defeat the purpose of the executive session. The Board 
3 The complainant had submitted three prior requests to the Board for the same records. The Supervisor of 
Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office directed the complainant to our office to determine 
whether the executive session records were properly withheld. 
4 The Board discussed the request again during its March 22 meeting. 
5 Open Meeting Law determination letters may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
then sent its response to that effect within the requisite 10 days of the request, on March 16. 
However, we disagree with the Board's reliance on the Open Meeting Law to continue 
withholding the requested minutes and recording.6 According to the Board, it held a 
discussion with the complainant and took no action at the July 28, 2016 executive session. 
Because the Board resolved the matter with the complainant during the executive session, the 
pmpose for the executive session expired at the end of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); 
OML 2016-122; OML 2015-62; OML 2012-91. Therefore, the Board can no longer rely on 
the Open Meeting Law to withhold the records from the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The 
Board may continue to withhold the records if the attorney-client privilege or one or more of 
the exemptions under the Public Records Law still apply. Id; OML 2012-106. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to release its July 28, 2016 executive session minutes and recording in response to a 
request. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the law. Additionally, we order the Board to publicly release the July 28, 2016 executive 
session minutes and recording under the Open Meeting Law. The Board may continue to 
withhold or redact portions of the records if the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the 
exemptions under the Public Records Law still apply. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Rodney Maloney 
Hinsdale Select Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 The Open Meeting Law does not distinguish between individuals who request minutes from public bodies, thus 
we take no position on whether sharing executive session minutes of a Purpose 1 discussion with the subject of 
that discussion would waive a public body's confidentiality with respect to those minutes. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 