===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 190 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mariem Marquetti, Esq.  
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP  
mmarquetti@mhtl.com   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Marquetti: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Allison on May 10, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 9, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 28. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting to draft and disseminate a statement 
regarding mask wearing. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review and additional documents provided 
therewith, a letter from resident Chris McCue Potts, and a video recording of the Committee’s 
February 10 meeting.
2 We also communicated with counsel3 for the Committee and reviewed the 
Committee’s responses to questions presented by our office. 
 
The complaint relates to a statement disseminated to the public on February 11 on behalf 
of the Committee addressing comments that Dr. Laura McCullough, the physician for Medfield 
Public Schools, had made during the Committee’s February 10 meeting. During discussion of the 
topic “DESE COVID-19 Testing/Guidance/Mask Mandate” the Committee took public 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s February 10 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_qmq06UpoK0. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
comment. A member of the public commented that requiring children in preschool to wear 
masks could create “a generation of children with [autism spectrum disorder].” Thereafter, Dr. 
McCullough spoke and made comments that some construed as agreeing with the prior statement 
about a link between mask wearing and autism spectrum disorder.  
 
On February 11 at 1:57 p.m., an email was sent to the School District’s email distribution 
list entitled “Letter from the Medfield School Committee” (the “Statement”). The Statement 
denounced the remarks that mask wearing could cause autism spectrum disorder in children and 
stated that “District leaders [had] addressed the situation with” Dr. McCullough. The Statement 
was signed “The Medfield School Committee” and included the name of all five members of the 
Committee and the Superintendent.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting to discuss, draft, and issue the Statement. In support of this allegation, the Complainant 
asserts that 1) the Chair did not have authority to issue the Statement on behalf of the Committee 
without the approval of the Committee; 2) the Committee could not issue the Statement without 
a quorum of the Committee first approving it;
4 and 3) the Statement included the name of each 
Committee member. Additionally, the Complainant notes that because a Committee meeting 
scheduled for February 11 at 9:30 a.m. was canceled an hour prior to the meeting, the 
Complainant believes that Committee members must have met on February 11 at or around 9:30 
a.m. because this time would have been available on members’ calendars. Finally, another 
resident, Chris McCue Potts, submitted a letter in support of the complaint explaining that as she 
left town hall on February 11 after learning that the Committee’s meeting had been canceled, she 
saw Committee member Tim Knight. Ms. McCue Potts asserts that she told Mr. Knight, who 
was on his phone at the time, that the Committee’s meeting had been canceled and Mr. Knight 
responded, “I know, but we have other things we need to talk about now” (emphasis in original).     
 
The Committee has consistently asserted, in response to both the complaint and direct 
questions from our office, that the Chair and the Superintendent, in response to communications 
sent to each by a member of the public, decided together to draft and issue the Statement. The 
Committee unequivocally denies that there were any communications by any means with the 
other four Committee members regarding the Statement and that the other four Committee 
members only received the final version of the Statement when it was disseminated to the public 
via the School District’s email distribution list on February 11 at 1:57 p.m. Furthermore, the 
Committee explains that the Chair had authority to issue a statement on behalf of the Committee 
by reason of her role as the Committee’s spokesperson.  
 
Finally, with respect to cancelation of the February 11 meeting and Mr. Knight’s 
comment to Ms. McCue Potts outside of town hall, the Committee explains that its meeting 
scheduled for 9:30 a.m. on February 11 was canceled when the Chair learned at or around 8:30 
a.m. that a quorum of members would not be available to attend the meeting. The Chair, Mr. 
Knight, and the Superintendent had previously scheduled a meeting for February 11 at 10:45 
 
4 Whether or not the Chair had authority to issue a statement on behalf of the Committee without a quorum of the 
Committee first approving the Statement is not a matter that falls within the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore 
decline to opine on the Chair’s authority in this regard. See OML 2013-54. Open Meeting Law determinations may 
be found at the Attorney General’s website, www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
a.m. to discuss unrelated matters. Learning that the Committee’s 9:30 a.m. meeting would not go 
forward, the Chair, Mr. Knight, and the Superintendent chose to move their meeting earlier in the 
morning. Mr. Knight has explained that it was his meeting with the Chair and the Superintendent 
that he was referring to when he said to Ms. McCue Potts words to the effect of “I know, but we 
have other things we need to talk about now.” Additionally, Mr. Knight has confirmed that he 
did not meet with any other Committee member on February 11 and did not communicate with 
any Committee member regarding the Statement.  
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis 
added). For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members 
of a public body. Id. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee’s 
account of events and find that here, where the Chair and the Superintendent do not constitute a 
quorum of the Committee, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by deliberating 
outside of a noticed meeting regarding the Statement.
5 See OML 2021-158. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Medfield School Committee (via email: scchair@email.medfield.net) 
Robert Allison (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 For clarification, we note that the meeting between the Chair, Mr. Knight, and the Superintendent concerning an 
unrelated matter also would not constitute deliberation since it did not include a quorum of the Committee. 
