===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 25, 2015 
OML 2015- 141 
Daniel Skrip 
Nahant Town Counsel 
15 Pleasant Street 
Nahant, MA 01908 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Skrip: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Sheridan Montgomery, dated May 28, alleging 
that the Nahant Public Library Board of Trustees (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 29, and the 
Board responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 13. In her complaint, Ms. 
Montgomery alleges that the Board discussed topics during a meeting that were not listed on the 
meeting notice.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the complaint. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of Board meetings 
held on February 19 and April 1. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on April 1. At the time, Ms. 
Montgomery was employed as the Library Director for the Nahant Public Library. The notice 
for this meeting listed three anticipated topics: (i) "The signing of payment vouchers;" (ii) 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 The request for further review filed with our office contains an allegation that was not part of the original 
complaint filed with the Board- that is, that the April 1 meeting minutes do not reflect certain discussions that took 
place during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that "the complainant shall file a written complaint with 
the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation and giving the body an 
opportunity to remedy the alleged violation..." G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). This must be done prior to filing a complaint 
with our office. Id. Thus, we decline to review any allegations raised for the first time in the May 28 letter to our 
office. See OML 2013-99. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
"Discussion of CPA article;" and (iii) "Town Meeting discussion." When the April 1 meeting 
began, Board Chair Janet Dolan stated that the Board would begin the process of documenting 
certain actions by Ms. Montgomery that Chair Dolan described as "unacceptable."3 Chair Dolan 
then moved "to request a letter to document the actions of the library director." Ms. 
Montgomery, who was present at the meeting, objected to this discussion, stating that it was not 
listed on the meeting notice. Chair Dolan stated that she had spoken with Town Counsel and 
was authorized to proceed. Chair Dolan had met with Town Counsel ten days prior to the April 
1 meeting to discuss how to address the alleged misbehavior.4 Ultimately, Ms. Montgomery left 
the meeting. After Ms. Montgomery left. Chair Dolan made a motion to write a letter 
documenting certain allegations against Ms. Montgomery. After significant discussion, the 
Board voted unanimously in favor of drafting this letter and placing it in Ms. Montgomery's 
employment file. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and that every 
notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
Here, we find that Chair Dolan anticipated more than 48 hours prior to the Board's April 
1 meeting that the Board would discuss how to address certain allegations against Ms. 
Montgomery. Chair Dolan had spoken with Town Counsel about the issue ten days prior to the 
April 1 meeting. Based on the Chair's statement that she was authorized to proceed during that 
conversation with Town Counsel, we find that Chair Dolan anticipated discussing this topic at 
least 48 hours prior to the April 1 meeting. Accordingly, the topic should have been listed on the 
meeting notice. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(b). Its omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2015-12.5 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we caution that similar 
future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order 
the Board to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting 
Notices and certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the attached form, 
that it has done so.6 
3 We note that Ms. Dolan is no longer Board Chair. Because she was the chair at the time the events at issue took 
place, we will refer to her as "Chair Dolan" in this letter. 
4 We note that Attorney Skrip assumed the role of Town Counsel as of July 1 and was not acting as Town Counsel at 
the time the events described here occurred. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 The training video may be found here; www.mass.gov/ago/govemment-resources/open-meeting-law/video-
trainings. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sheridan Montgomery 
Nahant Public Library Board of Trustees 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2015-141 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #2: Meeting Notices on . 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
4 