===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 18, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 248 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Corey F. Williams, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
City of Lowell - Law Department 
375 Merrimack Street, 3rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852-5909 
cwilliams@lowellma.gov 
 
Dear Solicitor Williams: 
 
This office received a complaint from Judith Durant on August 29, 2024, alleging that the 
Lowell City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on July 30 and you responded on behalf of 
the Council by letter dated August 19.1  The complaint alleges that the notice of the Council’s 
July 9 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed a prior determination issued by our office, OML 2024-197,2 which 
addressed the same allegation, raised by a different complainant, regarding the Council’s July 9 
meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.3  The Council met on July 9.  Notice of the July 9 meeting 
was posted electronically on July 5; it did not include as a topic to be discussed at the meeting a 
home rule petition filed by State Senator Ed Kennedy and under review by Senate Counsel.  The 
home rule petition would permit a vacancy on the Council to be filled by special election, rather 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 For a thorough background to the Council’s meeting of July 9, see OML 2024-197.   
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
than by appointment.  The notice also did not list as topics the anticipated resignation of District 
3 Councilor John Leahy or the procedure by which that vacancy should be filled.   
 
The July 9 meeting took place as scheduled. Approximately 90 minutes into the meeting, 
Councilor Erik Gitschier requested and received permission to “suspend the rules” to discuss an 
email from Senator Kennedy’s office regarding the home rule petition.  There followed a lengthy 
and animated discussion among several councilors about how to fill vacancies on the Council, 
and in particular how to fill the seat that soon would be vacated by Councilor John Leahy.  
Councilors disagreed whether the Council should appoint someone to fill the seat, as 
contemplated by a motion made by Councilor Rita Mercier, or wait for final approval of the 
home rule petition to allow for a special election.  After discussing the matter at length, 
Councilor Mercier’s motion passed.  Councilor Leahy resigned, and in keeping with the then-
existing procedure and Councilor Mercier’s motion, the Council at its next meeting on July 23 
appointed Corey Belanger to fill his seat. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015-35.  The Open Meeting Law requires 
that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed 
decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest.  
See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22. 
 
A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the meeting notice, 
although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best 
practice, table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant interest to the public 
so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future meeting.  See OML 2019-131; OML 
2018-119; OML 2013-87.  When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether 
it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2024-6; 
OML 2023-101; OML 2022-203.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See 
OML 2021-39; OML 2020-55; OML 2018-134.  Even where the chair considers that a topic is of 
interest to the public body and may be discussed at some time, it need not be included on the 
notice if the chair does not anticipate that it will be discussed at the meeting for which the notice 
is posted.  See OML 2024-180. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
As an initial matter, we address the suspension of the rules at the July 9 meeting.  A 
public body may not suspend the application of the Open Meeting Law to its proceedings.  Any 
suspension of the rules would concern rules particular to that body, and would not affect the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, to the extent that some councilors at the July 
9 meeting believed that suspension of the rules allowed for discussion of anticipated topics that 
were not listed on the notice, that belief was mistaken.  When the Council voted in favor of 
“suspending the rules,” it did not, and could not, suspend the application of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
Based upon our investigation, and as more thoroughly explained in OML 2024-197, we 
find that the Mayor, who is Chair of the Council, and/or agents to whom he delegated 
preparation of the meeting notice, reasonably anticipated that the Council would discuss the 
home rule petition and the vacancy of the District 3 seat at the Council’s July 9 meeting. The 
City Manager, who also played a direct role in creation of the notice of the July 9 meeting, was 
asked explicitly to include the home rule petition as a topic on the July 9 meeting and declined or 
failed to do so.  
 
In its response, the Council downplays the vote on Councilor Mercier’s July 9 motion, 
noting that the motion served only to assist the Council in making the appointment.  Pursuant to 
the statute governing the filling of vacancies, each councilor was free to advocate for whomever 
they wished to take Councilor Leahy’s seat.  We do not disagree that the July 9 vote simply 
provided nonbinding procedural guidance for the July 23 appointment.  However, it is not the 
vote on Councilor Mercier’s motion, but the extended deliberation surrounding it and the home 
rule petition, that warranted mention in the notice of the July 9 meeting.  The Council’s power to 
fill the seat to be vacated by member Leahy does not excuse it from compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law’s notice requirements.  The Council violated the Open Meeting Law on July 9 
when it deliberated about anticipated topics that were not included on the notice for that meeting. 
 
Although we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to post 
sufficiently specific notice for the July 9 meeting, we decline the complainant’s request to nullify 
the appointment of Corey Belanger to the District 3 Council seat.  The appointment was properly 
included in the notice of the July 23 meeting at which the Council voted to appoint Corey 
Belanger to fill the seat.4  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not govern the procedure by 
which a public body fills vacancies.   
 
Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  There is no information before us suggesting an intentional 
 
4 When a public body takes sufficient remedial action following a violation, we have declined to nullify the body’s 
vote.  See, e.g., OML 2024-111 (declining to nullify vote that occurred in improperly noticed executive session as 
public body revisited subject during properly posted open sessions, among other remedial action); 2018-49 
(declining to nullify vote that occurred in a properly posted open session following a prior discussion improperly 
held in executive session). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
violation.  To the contrary, members of the Council appeared to be acting on an earnest, albeit 
mistaken, understanding that the Open Meeting Law had been suspended to permit the 
discussion.  Moreover, we have not previously warned the Council about this specific 
requirement.  Therefore, we find that the violation was not intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its July 9 meeting. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lowell City Clerk (via email: mgeary@lowellma.gov) 
 Judith Durant (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
