===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 18, 2015 
OML 2015-121 
Clement Brown, Esq. 
Horvitz & Brilhante, LLP 
321 North Main Street 
P.O. Box 2568 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Brown: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated April 1, alleging that the 
Somerset Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 23, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated March 27.2 In his 
complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the notice for the Board's March 18 meeting lacked 
sufficient detail about the nature of an executive session topic discussed at that meeting. 
Additionally, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board improperly discussed a topic in executive 
session during the March 18 meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response to the 
complaint; and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice, open and executive session minutes, and a recording from the Board's 
March 18 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Somerset (the Town) acts as a municipal 
energy aggregator pursuant to G.L. c. 164, § 134. As of the date of this letter, the Town is 
participating in a Community Electricity Aggregation Project, sponsored by the Southeast 
Regional Planning & Economic Development District, in which a group of municipalities are 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
working together to purchase energy jointly. The Town, by vote at Town Meeting in 
December 2014, granted the Board the authority to participate in a contract, on behalf of the 
Town, to aggregate energy purchases with other municipalities. Accordingly, the Board hired 
an outside consultant. Good Energy, to assist the Board with developing and implementing an 
aggregation plan. 
The Board convened a meeting on March 18 to discuss several topics in executive 
session, including litigation and confidential information provided to the Town as a municipal 
aggregator. The meeting notice listed these two executive session topics, among others, 
below the heading "Executive Session.. .Pursuant to M.G.L. chapter 30A, section 21(g)" as 
follows: "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to litigation where an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the Town's litigating position: Potential Litigation" and "[t]o discuss 
confidential, competitively sensitive or other proprietary information provided in the course 
of activities as a municipal aggregator under section 134 of chapter 164 or in the course of 
activities conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant 
to section 136 of chapter 164[.]" 
During the meeting, the Board approved a motion by roll call to convene in executive 
session and stated the purposes, as described in the meeting notice. The Board discussed 
several topics in executive session, including the possibility of filing suit against a company. 
Town Counsel also provided an update on the status of his discussions with Good Energy. 
The Board was waiting for Town Counsel and Good Energy to submit documents for its 
approval, including a draft contract between the Town and the successful competitive 
supplier. These documents would be part of the Town's license application to the Department 
of Public Utilities. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Before entering into executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3). Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is a purpose permitting a 
public body, "[to] discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public 
body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body may 
use this purpose only to discuss litigation that is pending or clearly or imminently threatened. 
See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983). 
Another purpose for executive session permits a public body: 
2 
===PAGE 3===
To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information provided in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as 
an energy supplier under a license granted by the department of public utilities 
pursuant to section IF of chapter 164, in the course of activities conducted as a 
municipal aggregator under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of 
activities conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized 
pursuant to section 136 of said chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal 
aggregator or cooperative determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its 
ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling or distributing 
electric power and energy. 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(10) ("Purpose 10"). 
I. The Board's Purpose 3 Executive Session Topic Was Sufficiently Detailed in 
the Meeting Notice. 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attornev for N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening 
in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
publicly identify the specific litigation matter to be discussed during its March 18 executive 
session. A public body should include this detail in a notice unless doing so would 
compromise the purpose for confidentiality. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). Here, the Town 
was considering whether to file a lawsuit. At the time, the Board was involved in discussions 
with the party at issue and did not want to disrupt those discussions by revealing the 
possibility that it might file suit. Because we find that revealing such information would 
defeat the purpose for the executive session, the meeting notice did not need to identify the 
target of the potential suit. It was therefore sufficient to inform the public that potential 
litigation would be discussed and that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
Town's litigating position, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
II. The Board's Executive Session Discussion under Purpose 10 was Proper. 
The Town acts as a municipal energy aggregator pursuant to G.L. c. 164, § 134. By 
vote at Town Meeting the Board, as the elected representatives of the Town, has been granted 
the authority to develop the aggregation plan and to contract with a group of municipalities to 
purchase energy. G.L. c. 164, § 134. The Open Meeting Law specifically provides a 
mechanism for closed door discussions "in the course of activities conducted as a municipal 
aggregator under section 136 of said chapter 164... when such governmental body, municipal 
3 
===PAGE 4===
aggregator or cooperative determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to 
conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and 
energy." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(10). Here, the Board discussed certain terms of a draft contract 
with a proposed energy supplier; this contract would become part of its license application to 
the Department of Public Utilities. The discussions encompassed strategy concerning a future 
bid for an energy supplier that, if revealed publicly at the time, the Board asserts would have 
put the Board at a competitive disadvantage. After reviewing the Board's contention and the 
executive session minutes, we find that the discussion that occurred on March 18 was 
appropriate for executive session under Purpose 10. See OML 2015-51. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Somerset Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 