===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 13,2017 
OML 2017-39 
Michele Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law LLP 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Kyle Miltimore, dated December 7, 2016 alleging 
that the Southampton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board met in executive session to 
discuss Mr. Miltimore's reputation and character without providing him with notice and the 
opportunity to be present. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 1, 
2016, and the Board responded by letter dated November 21, 2016. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by taking a 
vote in executive session during its September 20, 2016 meeting that exceeded the Board's 
authority to act in executive session under the purpose it cited. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the complaint filed the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with 
our office. Additionally, we reviewed the open session minutes, and reviewed in camera the 
executive session minutes of the Board's August 25, 2015 and September 20, 2016 meetings. 
We spoke with Mr. Miltimore by telephone on December 7, 2016. Finally, we spoke with you 
by telephone on December 8, 2016 and received your email dated December 15, 2016 enclosing 
documents requested by our office.1 
We find the facts to be as follows. Mi-. Miltimore was an employee of the Town's Fire 
Department. On March 5, 2015, Mr. Miltimore filed a complaint against another Town 
employee. Around this time, Mr. Miltimore was placed on administrative leave by the Town's 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
fire chief. During the Board's meeting on August 25, 2015, the Board entered into executive 
session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss Mr. Miltimore's complaint against the Town 
employee. Because the executive session minutes have not yet been publicly released by the 
Board, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, during that executive session, 
the Board spoke with the employee who was the subject of the complaint following its 
investigation into the complaint's allegations. Mr. Miltimore was mentioned during the 
executive session, but in his role as a complainant, and not as the subject of discipline or action 
by the Board. 
The Board convened in executive session on September 20, 2016 with the announced 
purpose to discuss the "reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or discuss the discipline or dismissal or, or complaints 
or charges against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." During this 
executive session, the Board met with a Town employee regarding an incident involving that 
employee and Mr. Miltimore. The meeting was called to discuss a complaint against that 
employee, and not specifically to discuss Mr. Miltimore. From our review of the executive 
session minutes, that is indeed what occurred. However, the Board did take a vote that affected 
Mr. Miltimore's employment status, although the Board does not directly oversee employees of 
the fire department other than the fire chief. Following that meeting, the Town's fire chief 
submitted a personnel change form, which would effectively terminate Mr. Miltimore's 
employment. We understand from the Board's counsel that no action has been taken on that 
form, and thus Mr. Miltimore is still employed by the Town, though he remains on 
administrative leave. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member 
is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21 (a), (b). One executive 
session pmpose allows a public body to enter executive session "to discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). 
The individual to be discussed during such an executive session must be notified in writing by 
the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and has the right to be 
present during deliberations, to have counsel present, and to speak on his own behalf. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed Mr. Miltimore in executive session on 
August 25, 2015 and September 20, 2016 without giving him the opportunity to be present. The 
Board properly convened the two executive sessions under Purpose 1 to discuss an employee 
other than Mr. Miltimore. Mr. Miltimore, while not the subject of the discussion, was discussed 
as the complainant in both matters. We have previously concluded that where a public body 
discusses an individual who is incidental to a Purpose 1 executive session discussion and who is 
2 
===PAGE 3===
not the subject of the discussion, the public body is not required to provide that person with 
notice and the opportunity to participate in the executive session. See OML 2014-90; OML 
2013-52.2 Mr. Miltimore was incidental to the discussion about the Town employee who was 
the subject of the executive session discussions. However, during the Board's executive session 
on September 20, 2016, the Board took action that indirectly affected Mr. Miltimore's 
employment.3 While the Board does not directly supervise Mr. Miltimore, it did take action that 
apparently allowed his supervisor to proceed to terminate Mr. Miltimore's employment. By 
taking action that affected Mr. Miltimore, the Board exceeded its authority to act in that 
executive session. It should have taken action in open session, or convened a subsequent 
executive session under Purpose 1 while providing Mr. Miltimore notice and the opportunity to 
be present before taking its vote. 
Mr. Miltimore requests that our office order his reinstatement and provide him with an 
opportunity to review the executive session minutes from the two Board meetings. We decline 
to order Mr. Miltimore's reinstatement because the Board did not have authority to place Mr. 
Miltimore on leave to begin with, nor did it do so here. The action taken by the Board, while 
improper under the executive session purpose, was indirect. Mr. Miltimore's employment status 
remains under the control of the Town's fire department, not the Board. However, because the 
Board took action in executive session that affected or could affect Mr. Miltimore, we order the 
Board to allow Mr. Miltimore to review the minutes of the Board's September 20, 2016 
executive session only. These minutes are to remain confidential until the Board releases them 
publicly or are ordered by a court to be disclosed. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and order the 
Board to allow Mr. Miltimore to review the minutes of the Board's September 20, 2016 meeting. 
Those minutes will remain confidential until properly released by the Board. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/oDenmeeting. 
3 We understand that whether the Town has terminated Mr. Miltimore's employment may be matter of dispute. 
Regardless, by taking a vote in executive session, the Board members understood that they were taking action that 
could indirectly affect Mr. Miltimore's employment. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
cc: Southampton Board of Selectmen 
Kyle Miltimore 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 