===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 19, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 147 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
David Dufresne 
Chair, Warren Board of Selectmen 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Dufresne: 
This office received a complaint from Dario Nardi on April 15, 2021, alleging that the 
Warren Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 12, 2021, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 19, 2021.1 In his complaint, Mr. Nardi alleges that the Board 
failed to provide adequate alternative means of public access to a March 11 meeting and failed to 
admit Mr. Nardi into the March 11 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the meeting 
notice, meeting minutes and a video of the Board’s March 11 meeting. We emailed with Mr. 
Nardi in September 2021. Finally, we emailed with Mr. Dufresne on several occasions in 
October of 2021.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 8 at around 2:00 p.m., the Board posted notice for 
a meeting to take place at 6:00 p.m. on March 11. The notice included both a physical meeting 
location and remote access information for members of the public who wished to attend 
remotely, including a Zoom link, meeting ID number and passcode. On March 11 at 6:00 p.m., 
members of the Board met in-person in a conference room at the Shepherd Municipal Building. 
Members of the public could attend remotely through Zoom or in-person, where socially 
distanced seating was available in the conference room.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board used a free Zoom subscription to provide remote access for members of the 
public who preferred to access the meeting remotely, which included a time limit such that the 
Zoom meeting ended every 40 minutes and all members of the public had to be readmitted to the 
Zoom meeting by the host. Mr. Dufresne was in charge of the Zoom portion of the meeting from 
his laptop at the Board’s table. Every 40 minutes when the Zoom meeting ended, the in-person 
meeting was paused while Mr. Dufresne readmitted remote participants to the Zoom meeting. 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:46 p.m.  
DISCUSSION 
 Mr. Nardi alleges that the Board failed to provide adequate alternative means of public 
access to a March 11 meeting in accordance with Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020, Executive 
Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, because all Zoom participants 
were removed and readmitted to the meeting every 40 minutes. See OML 2020-156.3 Under the 
Open Meeting Law, meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an 
executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Under Governor Baker’s Executive 
Order, public bodies were permitted to meet entirely remotely, provided that the public body 
provided adequate, alternative means of public access to the deliberations of the public body.4 
“Adequate, alternative means” may include, without limitation, providing public access through 
telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology that 
enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real time. See OML 
2021-135. 
 Because the Board held its March 11 meeting in-person at a location that was physically 
open and accessible to the public, the Board was not required to provide a method of alternative 
remote access to the meeting. We therefore find no violation of the Open Meeting with respect to 
this allegation. We also note that the Board paused its in-person proceedings each time the Zoom 
meeting timed out, so that the Zoom participants did not miss any of the proceedings.  
 Mr. Nardi also asserts that he was not admitted to the Board’s meeting from the Zoom 
waiting room for at least fifteen minutes at the start of the March 11 meeting. Mr. Nardi provided 
a screenshot indicating that the Selectboard used a waiting room on at least one occasion. The 
Board asserts that Board Member Dufresne admitted all Zoom participants, including The Ware 
River News, Mr. Nardi, and other individuals, at both the start of the March 11 meeting and after 
each 40-minute interruption. Because the screenshot does not include a date or timestamp 
showing when Mr. Nardi was waiting to be admitted to the Zoom meeting, we are unable to 
resolve this factual dispute and therefore make no findings as to whether Mr. Nardi was 
individually excluded from joining the Board’s March 11 meeting.  
 However, we take this opportunity to remind that Board that if it uses a Zoom waiting 
room in order to manually admit members of the public to the meeting, it must ensure that 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 Governor Baker’s Executive Order expired on June 15, 2021, when the Governor terminated the COVID-19 
pandemic state of emergency. On June 16, 2021, Governor Baker signed into law An Act Extending Certain 
COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency. This Act includes an extension, until April 1, 2022, 
of the remote meeting provisions of Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020, Executive Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
attendees are promptly admitted to the meeting at the start of and throughout the duration of the 
meeting. See OML 2017-172; OML 2011-52 (a meeting in a locked building is sufficiently 
accessible where members of the public can access the building by notifying personnel or 
knocking on a window).  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Dario Nardi (via e-mail: ) 
 Warren Town Clerk Nancy Lowell (via e-mail: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
