===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 28, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 32 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bernard Pigeon 
Chair, Wareham Board of Sewer Commissioners 
SewerCommissioners@wareham.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Pigeon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Nora Bicki on October 9, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Wareham Board of Sewer Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was filed with the Board on or about September 6, and alleges 
that notices for Board meetings held on August 10
2 and 24 were insufficiently specific. The 
Board did not respond to the complaint.3   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including insufficiently specific topics on its meeting notices. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint and the request for further review. We also reviewed 
the notices and minutes for, and recordings of, the Board’s meetings held on August 10 and 24.4  
  
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Board held two meetings on August 10. The complaint alleges that the notice for each August 10 meeting was 
insufficient. 
3 We remind the Board of its obligation to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law including the 
requirement to review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. See  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
4 A video recording of the two August 10 meetings can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgiq5FWsZDA. A video recording of the August 24 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExfBBUvV0wU.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include the date, time, and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to 
create the notice, reasonably anticipates, 48 hours in advance of the meeting, will be discussed at 
the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152. The topics for 
discussion must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.  
 
A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic, nor anticipate on the 
not
ice the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-
132; OML 2019-134. However, notice topics must be described with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting so that the public can 
make an informed decision about whether to attend the meeting in order to observe an 
anticipated discussion. See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. When 
reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not 
review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review 
what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to 
make the public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
 After review of the notices and m
 inutes for, and recordings of, the August 10 and 24 
meetings we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by including insufficiently 
specific topics on its meeting notices. For example, on the notice for the Board’s first August 10 
meeting, the topic “47 Sandwich Road,” without any additional information, did not provide 
sufficient notice to the public that the Board would discuss whether to approve the conversion of 
a commercial building to a residential building. With respect to the Board’s second August 10 
meeting, the notice included the topics “work-shop business” and “tentative schedule of guests.” 
Under the latter topic was a list of individuals, including their respective positions, anticipated to 
present to the Board. The meeting was convened so that the Board could discuss and receive 
information related to the Town’s long-range plan and developments that might impact or be 
impacted by the Board’s work. Although it appears that the Board anticipated a wide-ranging 
discussion, there was a specific purpose for the workshop—to hear about and discuss 
developments in Town that would implicate the Board’s work. We find that the topic “work-
shop business” was insufficient to inform the public of the anticipated nature of the discussions. 
See OML 2022-174 (finding a violation where a committee insufficiently noticed a presentation 
it anticipated receiving on a particular topic).   
 
 Wi
th respect to the August 24 meeting, although the Board did not discuss every topic 
listed—for example, it did not hold a substantive discussion under the topic “Budget”—we find 
that the Board again included insufficiently specific topics on its meeting notice. For example, 
the notice included the topics “Town Meeting requests (Headworks & Clarifiers),” “Narrows 
Main, resubmit RFP,” “Bourne,” and “Borden & Remington Corp.” Under these notice topics 
the Board discussed and voted on 1) whether and how to move forward with a Town Meeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
warrant article proposing a $36 million project to update and repair the Town’s control facility 
cla
rifier and headworks; 2) the status of a request for proposal related to a project to line pipes 
connected to the Narrows Pump Station; 3) a letter the Chair sent to the Town of Bourne asking 
to discuss the above-mentioned warrant article; and 4) approving a contract for services with the 
Borden & Remington Corporation. Although these topics, as listed, may have been meaningful 
to Board members and regular Board meeting attendees, we find that they were insufficient to 
inform members of the public unfamiliar with the regular matters before the Board of the 
anticipated nature of the Board’s discussions. See OML 2020-164; OML 2013-55.  
 
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violations wer e intentional, as the 
Complainant urges. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Board against the violation found 
here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. 
Therefore, we decline to find that the violation was intentional. 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we take this opportunity to remind the 
Boar
d that the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. For substantial compliance, the minutes must contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140. Although 
a transcript is not required and minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, 
minutes must include more than a statement that a discussion was held about a specified topic; 
the minutes must actually summarize the discussion. See OML 2023-16; OML 2019-167; OML 
2018-8; OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; OML 2012-29.  
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including insufficiently specific topics on its meeting notices. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Nora Bicki (via email: ) 
Debra Gremo, Wareham Town Clerk (via email: clerk@wareham.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
