===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 26, 2015 
OML 2015-161 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Troy Wall Associates 
90 Route 6A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated July 30, alleging that the 
Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board unlawfully 
deliberated by email. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 2. The Board 
responded by letter dated July 27.2 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. On or 
about June 29, Mr. Beaty sent an email to the members of the Board with the subject: 
"NOTIFICATION: Important County Matter Requires Immediate Attention (Voidable ARC 
Conservation Restriction Purchase)." In response to the email, Board Chair Sheila Lyons replied 
to all recipients, explaining to Mr. Beaty a distinction between state agencies. No other Board 
member replied. In its response to the complaint, the Board writes that Chair Lyons intended her 
email to be a response to Mr. Beaty to provide him with information related to state agencies. 
The Open Meeting Law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law defines a 
"meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." Id. The law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, 
unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, the public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General and the complainant a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. Deliberation via email is prohibited by the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-84; 
OML 2011-35.3 
Although Chair Lyons' communication to Mr. Beaty reached a quorum of the Board 
members, her communication did not concern a matter within the Board's jurisdiction. She 
replied by explaining to Mr. Beaty a distinction between state agencies. Although the underlying 
topic may have been a matter of public business within the Board's jurisdiction, Chair Lyons' 
limited reply was not. While we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, we caution 
members of public bodies not to communicate with a quorum over email except for distributing 
meeting agendas, scheduling meetings, and distributing documents to be discussed at meetings. 
OML 2014-80. We encourage public body members not to reply-all when responding to 
constituent emails directed to a quorum of the public body. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 