===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 3, 2025 
 
       OML 2025-205 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Ivria Glass Fried, Esq. 
Harrington Heep 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
ifried@harringtonheep.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Fried: 
 
This office received a complaint from Russell Williston on August 17, 2025, alleging that 
the Lancaster Fire Chief Search Committee (“the Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee and the Lancaster 
Select Board (“the Board”) on July 16, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
August 4.
1  In his complaint, Mr. Williston alleges that the Committee was a public body that 
met from April 23 to July 7 without complying with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law.
2   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee was a public body and that it violated 
the Open Meeting Law by holding meetings without complying with the Law’s requirements.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed minutes of Board 
meetings held on April 23, May 19, June 2, June 16, July 7, and July 16.  Finally, we reviewed 
an employment agreement between the Town of Lancaster and John Belanger, dated August 15. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board met on April 23.  According to minutes of the 
Board’s April 23 meeting, then-Chair Stephen Kerrigan reviewed “why the Board’s 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Lancaster Select Board violated the Open Meeting Law, we find 
that it did not. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
recommendation is now to create the position of Fire Chief.”  Interim Town Administrator Jeff 
Nutting (“TA Nutting”) told the Board that, although the new position of Fire Chief must still be 
approved at the upcoming Town Meeting, he had already worked with Public Safety 
Commissioner Everett Moody to create a draft job description.  TA Nutting recommended 
formation of a staff-driven committee to review resumes and recommend two or three finalists to 
the Board.  At the conclusion of the discussion at the April 23 meeting, the Board voted to 
appoint Board Member Jason Allison3 “as liaison between the Select Board, the Town 
Administrator, and Public Safety to help develop the Fire Chief search committee.”  
 
During meetings that followed, the Board continued to receive updates and to discuss the 
hiring process.  At its May 19 meeting, Board Member Ralph Gifford stated that decisions would 
be made by the Committee, rather than by the Board, although it is unclear from the minutes 
what decisions Member Gifford was referring to.  According to minutes of that meeting, TA 
Nutting “noted that if this comes back to the Select Board, then it becomes a Public Body, and all 
meetings are open to the public. Then meetings need to be posted, Executive Sessions need to be 
scheduled, and the process becomes more complicated.”  At the Board’s June 2 meeting, Jason 
Allison, who had become Board Chair at the previous meeting, reported to the Board that the 
five-member Committee had been formed. 
 
The Board met on July 7.  Chair Allison reported to the full Board that final candidates 
had been selected and that, according to the minutes, “[t]he next step will be scheduling 
interviews for the finalists with the [Board].”  The Board interviewed two candidates for the 
position of Fire Chief at its next meeting, on July 16.  Following the interviews, the Board voted 
to authorize the Town Administrator and Town Counsel to enter into contract negotiations to 
appoint Jon Belanger as Lancaster Fire Chief.   
 
On August 15, Jon Ballenger executed an employment agreement with the Town of 
Lancaster “acting by and through its Select Board.”  Chair Allison executed the agreement on 
behalf of the Board.  According to the terms of that agreement, the Fire Chief reports to the 
Board or its designee.  The Board delegated “daily reporting authority to the Town 
Administrator.”  The agreement establishes procedures relative to the Board’s renewal or 
nonrenewal of the agreement.  The agreement provides terms under which the Board may 
terminate the Fire Chief for just cause or without cause and dictates that the Chief must provide 
the Board with notice if he chooses to resign. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As an initial matter, we find the complaint timely filed.  To be considered timely, an 
Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the alleged 
violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it 
occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  The complainant reasonably could have discovered that the 
Committee met without posting notice of meetings when it was announced at the July 7 Board 
meeting that the Committee had completed its selection of candidates for consideration by the 
Board.  As the complaint was filed on July 16, it was timely.   
 
3 Jason Allison became Chair pursuant to a vote of the Board at its meeting on May 19.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Having found the complaint timely, we now proceed to the merits of the complainant’s 
allegations.  The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant 
part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
4  
 
The Committee was created by TA Nutting, town staff and the Board.  Therefore, it is 
within government and satisfies the first factor.  See OML 2025-30.  The Committee also 
satisfies the second factor.  In analyzing whether a body is empowered to act collectively, we 
have looked to whether its purpose is to work collaboratively.  See OML 2025-30; OML 2021-
95; OML 2016-116.  That a body chooses to take votes or issue formal reports is not, in and of 
itself, determinative on the issue of whether it satisfies the second factor.  See OML 2024-86 
(finding that committee that was authorized to oversee audit, collectively provide input to 
auditor, and resolve issues that may arise during audit process is, based on totality of 
information, a public body); OML 2021-95 (finding that committee satisfied second factor where 
its purpose was to compile and analyze information and work collaboratively to provide 
recommendations to Town Manager and Selectboard).  We have found the second factor 
unsatisfied where a committee serves an administrative function by compiling data and providing 
information to the Town but has no quorum requirements, takes no votes, makes no formal 
recommendations to a public body and is not empowered with decision-making or policy-
advisory authority.  See OML 2013-56.  Here, the Committee was formed to review resumes and 
recommend to the Board two or three finalists for the position of Fire Chief.  In so doing, the 
Committee satisfied not only the second factor, but also the third factor, as playing a role in the 
selection of a Fire Chief served a public purpose.   
 
In its response to the complaint, the Board does not argue that the Committee fails to 
satisfy one of the above three factors.  Rather, it maintains that the Committee falls within a 
judicially created exception to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “public body,” established 
in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  Under the Connelly 
exception, where an individual public official, who themself is not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, creates a committee to advise them on a decision that they have the sole authority to make, 
that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 235.  See also, e.g., OML 2025-
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
86 (task force fit within Connelly exception where university chancellor had sole authority to 
recommend revisions to land use policy); OML 2019-71 (working group fit within Connelly 
exception where it only possessed authority to make recommendations to the Mayor).   
 
We find that the Connelly exception does not apply to the Committee.  The Committee 
was not created by TA Nutting to advise him on a decision that he had the sole authority to 
make.  First, the Board played a role in creation of the Committee.  See, e.g., OML 2025-151 
(finding Connelly exception inapplicable where City Manager did not create Bicycle Committee 
of his own volition but was directed to do so by City Council); OML 2025-30 (finding that, even 
though superintendent played role in creation of task force, Connelly exception did not apply 
where purpose of task force was to make recommendations to school committee, not to advise 
superintendent on decisions she had sole authority to make).  Second, it does not appear from the 
facts before us that TA Nutting had sole discretion to make a recommendation to the Board nor 
could TA Nutting have acted alone in the hiring of the Fire Chief.  See, e.g., OML 2025-164 
(finding body created to act in advisory capacity to Mayor and City Council was public body not 
subject to Connelly exception); OML 2016-33 (“Because the Work Group was not created solely 
by the Town Administrator and its charge was not something solely within the Town 
Administrator’s authority, the Connelly exception does not apply.”).5    
 
To the extent that the Board argues that TA Nutting had exclusive authority over the 
recommendation of finalists, if not the hiring itself, there is nothing within the record that clearly 
places the selection of finalists within the sole authority of the town administrator.  In both 
Connelly and OML 2025-86, cited by the Board, the individual official was given exclusive 
authority, either by statute or pre-existing policy, to make the recommendations at issue.  Here, 
there is no such statute or policy.  Indeed, according to the facts before us, TA Nutting did not 
make a recommendation to the Board; instead, Chair Allison periodically updated the Board on 
the Committee’s process and conveyed the Committee’s final recommendation to the Board 
directly.  As such, the Connelly exception is not applicable.     
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons explained above, we find that the Committee was a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law and that it violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to post notice of 
its meetings or to prepare minutes of its meetings.  We order the Committee, within 60 days of 
the date of this letter, to create minutes for its meetings in accordance with the guidance herein 
and that it certify to our office that it has done so.  We acknowledge the difficulty in creating past 
meeting minutes months after the meetings went forward.  Nevertheless, we order the Committee 
to create minutes for its past meetings to the best of its ability, through whatever means are 
available, including documents, and the memories and notes of the attendees.  See, e.g., OML 
2025-27 (ordering Monson American Rescue Plan Act Committee to create and approve minutes 
for meetings held over a period of approximately three years).  If the Committee has been 
disbanded, we order the Board to create minutes of the Committee’s meetings, as it appears that 
 
5 That the Board, not the Town Administrator, had the authority to hire and dismiss the Fire Chief pursuant to the 
latter’s employment contract further reflects the Board’s involvement.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
the Committee was a subcommittee of the Board6 and at least one member of the Board (Chair 
Allison) was involved with the Committee.  See OML 2020-19 (“When a subcommittee has been 
disbanded, the parent public body should approve the subcommittee’s meeting minutes.”); OML 
2017-34.  Finally, we order immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the 
Committee or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John R. Woodsmall III, Lancaster Town Administrator, (via email: 
jwoodsmall@lancasterma.gov) 
Amanda J. Cannon, Lancaster Town Clerk (via email: acannon@lancasterma.gov) 
 Russell Williston (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
6 The Open Meeting Law explains that “a subcommittee shall include any multiple- member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
