===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 31,2017 
OML 2017-89 
Patrick Reynolds, Chairman 
North Attleborough Board of Selectmen 
43 South Washington Street 
North Attleborough, MA 02760 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Reynolds: 
This office received a complaint from David Gould, dated May 4, alleging that the North 
Attleborough Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 19, and the Board 
responded by letter dated February 7. In his complaint, Mr. Gould alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic that had not been listed on a meeting 
notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We reviewed all documentation provided with 
this complaint, including a notice of a Board meeting held on January 5. We also reviewed a 
video recording of the January 5 meeting.3 Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone 
on May 19, and we spoke with Town Administrator Michael Gallagher by telephone on May 22. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complaint contains other allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board chair made untrue statements during 
the January 5 meeting, and that the Board discussed the complainant's character and reputation in open session. 
While the Division of Open Government encourages honesty and candor during all meetings, we do not review 
statements made by public body members to determine their veracity. See OML 2015-133. Further, while a public 
body has the option of convening in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) to discuss an individual's 
character and fitness, the body is not obligated to do so, and may discuss those issues in open session. See OML 
2014-123. Because these allegations do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review 
them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 Available at: https://northtvvideovault.viebit.com/player.php?hash=2EQlnl07gEiH. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. At all times relevant to this complaint, the complainant was 
employed by the Town of North Attleborough. In the months preceding the Board's January 5 
meeting, the Board had discussed scheduling a date for the complainant to appear before a 
hearing officer for a disciplinary matter. This hearing had been scheduled for January 6. The 
Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 5. The notice listed several anticipated 
discussion topics, but it did not mention the complainant. On January 4, the Board received a 
motion for a continuance from the complainant's legal counsel seeking to reschedule the January 
6 hearing. 
During the January 5 meeting, Board member John Rhyno raised the issue of the motion 
for a continuance. Board Chairman Patrick Reynolds stated that he anticipated bringing up the 
matter of the motion during the portion of the meeting devoted to new business.4 However, the 
Board proceeded with the discussion, and then voted 2-1 to deny the motion for a continuance. 
DISCUSSION 
Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body must post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a meeting 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting," 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.5 While public bodies may discuss a topic 
not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper 
notice can be given to the public. See OML 2013-87; OML 2013-13. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board should have listed the motion for a 
continuance on the January 5 meeting notice. In support of this allegation, the complaint states 
that it was generally expected that the complainant's legal counsel would file such a motion. 
The Board's response states that the chair did not anticipate discussing delaying the 
complainant's disciplinary hearing prior to the receipt of the motion on January 4. We credit this 
statement. See OML 2014-144. While it may be true that the possibility of the need for a 
continuance was generally known, the chair did not anticipate discussing a motion for a 
continuance at the January 5 meeting until the day prior. See OML 2017-1 (no violation where a 
chair did not anticipate discussing a topic at a particular meeting). Accordingly, we find no 
violation with respect to this allegation.6 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board owed the complainant individualized notice that the motion 
would be discussed, we note that only an executive session convened under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) requires 
individualized notice to the subject of a discussion. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Gould 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 