===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 8, 2022 
 
OML 2022 - 75 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Francesse Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
f  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
 
This determination addresses a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the Everett 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint is dated April 30, 2021, and alleges that the Committee’s discussion of a prior 
complaint, filed in February, during the Committee’s April 5 meeting failed to comply with the 
Open Meeting Law’s response procedures, and that the response to the February complaint was 
untimely.1 2   
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the 
request for further review filed with our office.  We also reviewed the notice for and a video of 
the Committee’s April 5 meeting.3  We find that the Committee did not timely respond to the 
February complaint but that its response procedures were otherwise appropriate. 
 
 
1 Because of the volume of complaints that Mr. Fitzgerald has filed with the Everett School Committee and other 
public bodies in Everett, many on the same date and/or raising similar allegations, we have numbered the complaints 
for tracking purposes. This determination addresses complaint 30. 
2 One member of the Committee is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office. The complaints contain no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office’s 
consideration of the complaints.  
3 The meeting video is available at 
https://www.everettpublicschools.org/apps/pages/index.jsp?uREC ID=1618426&type=d&pREC ID=2094409 .  The 
relevant portion begins at 1:44:47. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an extension has been granted by the 
Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a 
public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  940 
CMR 29.05(5).  The public body must also send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint 
and a description of any remedial action taken.  Id.  The public body may review a complaint 
during a meeting and refer the complaint to a designee to respond, or a designee may receive and 
draft a response to the complaint in advance of a meeting for the public body to approve during a 
meeting, but the public body may not remove itself entirely from the process.  See OML 2020-
164; OML 2017-197; OML 2017-148 (“That the Board may have chosen to refer the complaint 
rather than discuss its substance is the Board’s prerogative.”).4  The Open Meeting Law does not 
require a public body to engage in a substantive discussion of the merits of the complaint. See 
OML 2020-38; OML 2018-134. 
Here, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 5, which included 
the topic “To review the Open Meeting Law complaints as submitted by Mr Steven Fitzgerald on 
Feb. 21, 2021 and March 9, 2021.”  During the April 5 meeting, the Committee’s Chair 
confirmed that he had shared with the Committee two prior complaints as well as the proposed 
responses.  He stated that he had reviewed the complaints along with Human Resources Director 
Francesse Canty, who is an attorney, as well as the Superintendent, and that he believed one of 
the complaints lacked merit and the other raised valid concerns.  The Superintendent credited 
Mr. Fitzgerald with bringing forward the concerns in the second complaint and explained how 
those issues would be addressed moving forward.  The Committee then voted unanimously by 
roll call to approve the responses as drafted.  This procedure, where responses had been prepared 
in advance of the meeting for the Committee’s consideration and approval at the meeting, 
satisfied the Committee’s obligations under the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard.  However, we find, as the 
Committee acknowledges, that the Committee did not timely respond to the February complaint.  
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorne y General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
 Frank Parker, Chair, Everett School Committee (via e-mail:  
 Priya Tahiliani, Superintendent, Everett Public Schools (via e-mail: 
) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
