===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 21, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 73 
 
 
Dighton Rehoboth Regional District School Committee Budget Subcommittee 
 c/o Chair Aaron Morse 
2700 Regional Road 
North Dighton, MA 02764 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Morse: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Deignan on December 2, 2020, alleging 
that the Dighton Rehoboth Regional District School Committee Budget Subcommittee (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on October 7, and Thomas O’Connor responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Subcommittee, by letter dated October 19.2  The complaint alleges 
that the Subcommittee i) failed to provide real-time access to its October 6 meeting where the 
notice did not include sufficient information indicating the location of the meeting and ii) held an 
improper emergency meeting on October 6.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  We resolve this 
matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the 
original complaint, the Subcommittee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review, and the notice of the Subcommittee meeting held on October 6.  
In addition, we spoke with Mr. O’Connor by telephone on May 11, 2021.3  We find that the 
Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.     
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 At the time the complaint was filed, Mr. O’Connor was chair of the Dighton Rehoboth Regional District School 
Committee.  He is currently vice-chair of the Committee. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
2017-135; OML 2016-54.4 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Executive Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an 
executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the 
state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  Relevant here, the Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically 
accessible to the public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public 
access.  The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall 
mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.”  Executive Order at Section 1.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Subcommittee failed to provide real-time access to the 
meeting held on October 6 as the notice failed to include sufficient information regarding the 
location of the remote meeting.  Here, the notice for the Subcommittee’s October 6 meeting 
included the date and time of the meeting and then stated “Virtual Meetings Google Meets.”  The 
notice did not include any other information that would allow a member of the public to access 
the meeting, such as a link to the virtual meeting, nor did it include clear instructions for how to 
obtain such information.  We find that the Subcommittee failed to provide adequate alternative 
means of access to its October 6 meeting, and therefore, the meeting was not accessible to the 
public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2020-132; OML 2020-67. 
 
We next determine whether the Subcommittee faced a genuine emergency on October 6.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as 
reasonably possible prior to such meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  An “emergency” is defined as 
“a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate 
action.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies 
with the public body.  See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.   
 
On September 30, Business Administrator Paul Kitchen spoke with the Department of 
Elementary and Secondary Education (“DESE”) which requested a report on the school district’s 
budget by the end of October as DESE planned to take fiscal oversight of the school district on 
December 1.  Mr. Kitchen updated Chair O’Connor the next day and Chair O’Connor 
determined that the report needed to be reviewed first by the Subcommittee and then by the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
whole School Committee before the School Committee’s next meeting on October 13.  On 
October 2, Chair O’Connor reached out to Subcommittee members to identify a convenient date 
on which a quorum of members could convene prior to October 13 and determined that October 
6 was the only available date to schedule a meeting.  Because the town halls were closed on 
Friday, October 2, the Subcommittee posted notice on Monday, October 5 at 10:09 A.M for a 
meeting to be held on Tuesday, October 6 at 6:30 P.M.5  We find that these circumstances are 
insufficient to qualify as an “emergency” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  Where a 
public body has at least 48 hours’ notice of circumstances that are likely to require deliberation, 
it is not an emergency.  See OML 2011-45.  Here, the Chair was aware as early as October 1 of 
the need to discuss the budget report requested by DESE.  While the inability to convene a 
quorum of a body prior to a deadline may be unexpected, we have stated before that this is not “a 
sudden or generally unexpected occurrence” under the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2015-85; 
OML 2013-92.  The Subcommittee cannot rely on emergency meetings to address scheduling 
problems.  See OML 2013-92.  Because there was no valid emergency basis for this meeting, we 
find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-9; OML 2014-150. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, it is our understanding that the Subcommittee did 
not create minutes for the emergency meeting held on October 6.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  We order the Subcommittee, if it has not already done so, to create 
minutes of the meeting held on October 6 to the best of its ability, through whatever means are 
available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide adequate alternative means of access to its October 6 meeting and by 
holding an improper emergency meeting on October 6.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Subcommittee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 We note that a regional school district committee may, by majority vote, adopt the regional school district’s 
website as its official notice posting method.  See 940 CMR 29.03(4).  If the regional school district committee 
adopts its website as the official notice posting method, it does not also need to post notice with the municipal clerk 
of each town within the district. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Deignan – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
