===PAGE 1===
Public Body Checklist for  
Creating and Approving Meeting Minutes 
 
Issued by the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General’s Division of Open Government  
November 2024 
 
Accurate minutes must be created and maintained for all public body meetings, both 
open session and executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
□ Minutes must accurately set forth the date, time, and place of the meeting, and list the 
public body members present or absent.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
□ Minutes must include an accurate summary of the discussion of each subject, including 
unanticipated subjects.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The summary does not need to be a 
transcript but must provide enough detail so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and understand what occurred and how the 
public body arrived at its decisions.  In general, it is insufficient for meeting minutes to 
simply state that a discussion about a particular topic occurred; instead, the minutes 
must actually summarize the discussion.   
□ The minutes must include a record of all the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including a record of all votes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  If a vote is taken by 
roll call, the minutes must record the vote by roll call, even if the result was unanimous. 
□ The minutes must include a list of all of the documents and other exhibits used by the 
public body during the meeting.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Documents and exhibits used at 
the meeting are part of the official record of the session, but do not need to be attached 
to the minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(d), (e).  
□ If one or more public body members participates remotely in the meeting, the minutes 
must include the name(s) of the individual(s) participating remotely.  940 CMR 
29.10(7)(b). 
□ If one or more public body members participates remotely in the meeting, all votes 
must be taken by roll call and the minutes must record the votes by roll call, even if the 
results are unanimous.  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). 
□ Executive session minutes must include the same level of detail as is required for open 
session minutes.  
□ When meeting in executive session, all votes must be taken by roll call and the minutes 
must record the votes by roll call, even if the results are unanimous.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b). 
□ Open session minutes must be approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  A 
“timely manner” will generally be considered to be within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good 
cause for further delay.  940 CMR 29.11(2).  Executive session minutes must be 
“create[d] and maintain[ed]” and “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine 
whether continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (g)(1); OML 2024-
158; OML 2024-29. 
===PAGE 2===
Note that this checklist is intended as an educational guide, and does not constitute proof of 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  Checklists are updated periodically, so please 
confirm that you are using the most current version.  For questions, please contact the 
Attorney General’s Division of Open Government at 617-963-2540 or via email at 
openmeeting@mass.gov.  For more information on the Open Meeting Law, please visit 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 