===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 46 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michele Randazzo, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on November 12, 2021, alleging that 
the Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
October 15, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 12, pursuant to 
an extension of time granted by our office.1 In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that 1) the 
Board’s notice for an October 13 meeting described an executive session item with insufficient 
specificity, 2) the Chair did not make the required announcements before the Board entered 
executive session, 3) a Board member failed to state that no other person was present while 
participating remotely in the October 13 executive session, and 4) the Board failed to 
periodically review its outstanding executive session minutes for release to the public. 
Following our review, we find that the Board failed to periodically review its executive 
session minutes and one member failed to state that no other person was present when 
participating remotely in an October 13 executive session. We find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for 
further review. We also reviewed the meeting notice and a video recording of the Board’s 
October 13 meeting.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. The executive session item on the notice for the Board’s October 13 meeting was sufficiently 
specific.  
 Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive 
session is “Purpose 6,” which permits a public body “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease 
or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). Purpose 6 is intended to 
preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or 
leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the 
property. See District Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 
629, 631 (1985). When convening in executive session under Purpose 6, a public body must 
identify the property that is the subject of the discussion, in both the meeting notice and the 
announcement prior to entering executive session, unless such disclosure would compromise the 
public body’s negotiating position. See OML 2016-112; OML 2016-50.2 
 Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board’s notice for an October 13 meeting was insufficiently 
detailed because the notice did not sufficiently identify the property to be discussed or specify 
that the Board would convene the executive session under Purpose 6. The notice stated that the 
Board would enter executive session “to consider the purchase, exchange, taking, lease, or value 
of real property if such discussion may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of 
the governmental body: 100 Julius Kelley Road.” A public body is not required to provide the 
specific statutory citation to the executive session purpose on which it relies, provided that the 
public body provides a sufficient description of the executive session topic in order to ensure that 
the topic falls within one of the permissible executive session purposes. See OML 2021-184; 
OML 2016-95. We find that the Board’s notice for the October 13 executive session, in quoting 
the full text of Purpose 6, made clear which purpose the Board relied on to enter executive 
session. In addition, we find that identifying the address of the property to be discussed as “100 
Julius Kelley Road,” even without naming the town, was sufficient where there is only one Julius 
Kelley Road in the County of Barnstable. Therefore, we find that the Board described both the 
property to be discussed and the purpose for the executive session with sufficient specificity to 
meet the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
2. A member of the Board other than the Chair permissibly announced the purpose for the 
executive session.    
 Before entering executive session, the chair of a public body must announce in open 
session the purpose for entering executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). In addition, before entering executive session, the chair must announce 
whether the public body will reconvene in open session at the conclusion of the executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
 Mr. Beaty alleges that the Board failed to properly convene an executive session on 
October 13, because a Board member other than the chair made the executive session 
announcements. We have stated that the chair of a public body may delegate these 
responsibilities to another person. See OML 2016-108 (finding an implied delegation of 
authority when the Chair asked legal counsel whether there was a reason to enter executive 
session, and legal counsel then stated the purposes for the executive session). Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
3. A Board member failed to state that no other person was present while participating remotely 
in the October 13 executive session.  
 The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations state that a public body “member 
participating remotely may participate in an executive session, but shall state at the start of any 
such session that no other person is present and/or able to hear the discussion at the remote 
location.” 940 CMR 29.10(7)(d). This statement does not have to occur in open session, but may 
be made at the beginning of the executive session. Id. Finally, although neither the Open Meeting 
Law nor the Attorney General’s regulations expressly require that this declaration be 
documented in the minutes, we encourage public bodies to record such statement in the minutes 
since that is the only way for members of the public to know that the declaration was made. See 
OML 2020-59. 
 Mr. Beaty alleges that a Board member participating remotely in the Board’s October 13 
executive session did not announce at the start of the executive session that no other person was 
present or able to hear the executive session discussion. The Board concedes that the member 
who participated remotely during the October 13 executive session did not make this required 
announcement, either in open session prior to entering the executive session or at the beginning 
of the executive session. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when 
one member failed to make this disclosure, though we note that there is no suggestion that any 
unauthorized person was present for the executive session, and we find this violation was de 
minimis. 
4. The Board failed to periodically review its outstanding executive session minutes for release.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(1). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988). 
 A public body or its chair or designee must, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of 
executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found 
a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 
2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. At the meeting following each periodic review, the 
public body must announce which executive session minutes will be released and which will 
continue to be withheld at the next meeting following its review, and such announcement shall 
be included in the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2019-3; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-
56. A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for possible release is 
ongoing. If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines that the purpose for 
the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be withheld from the 
public, it must continue to review those same executive session minutes at reasonable intervals 
until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired. See OML 2019-133.  
 The Board acknowledges that it did not review its outstanding executive session minutes 
for potential release at reasonable intervals. We therefore find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law. In response to the complaint, the Board committed to reviewing all of its 
outstanding executive session meeting minutes.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board failed to periodically review its 
executive session minutes and one member failed to state that no other person was present when 
participating remotely in the October 13 executive session. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 In addition, we order the Board to complete its review of all outstanding executive 
session minutes in accordance with Section 4 of this determination within sixty (60) days of 
receipt of this letter.   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
cc: Ronald Beaty (via e-mail: ) 
 Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners c/o Chair Ronal Bergstrom  
 (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
