===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       May 30, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 68 
 
 
Eric Twarog 
Director, Department of Planning & Development 
14 Court Square 
Greenfield, MA 01301 
 
By email only: eric.twarog@greenfield-ma.gov  
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Twarog:  
 
 This office received a complaint from Stephanie Duclos on March 18, 2025, alleging that 
the Greenfield Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 18, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 11.  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to 
provide adequate alternative means of public access to its February 13 meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notices, minutes, and video recordings of the Board meetings held on 
February 13 and March 6.
2   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  Chapter 49 of the Greenfield City Code requires that certain 
public
 bodies, including the Board, conduct hybrid meetings, except when meeting in executive 
session.  See Greenfield City Code, § 49-6(a).  A hybrid meeting is defined as “a meeting 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025.  
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on February 13 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tg7bJ31HsLw; a video recording of the Board meeting held on March 6 is 
available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOaxdXj3s3E.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
conducted in a manner that enables members of the public and members of the public body to 
attend both in person and via remote access and participate in the meeting in a reasonably 
equivalent manner.”  Greenfield City Code, § 49-5(b).   
 
The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 13 at 6:00 P.M.  The 
notice listed the physical location of the meeting as the John Zon Community Center at 35 
Pleasant Street in Greenfield.  In addition, the notice stated that the meeting would be available 
as a “Zoom Hybrid Meeting” and included a link to the Zoom meeting, several telephone 
numbers the public could use to dial into the meeting, and the Webinar ID number and passcode 
required to log into the meeting.  The notice listed eight topics, which included discussions of 
amendments to the city’s zoning bylaws that related to accessory dwelling units and abutter 
notification for site plan approvals.   
 
The February 13 meeting was held as planned and three Board members were present at 
the John Zon Community Center, the physical meeting location, while one member participated 
remotely.
3  Approximately 20 minutes after the meeting started, a member of the public arrived 
at the physical meeting location and informed the Board that the Zoom link listed on the notice 
was incorrect and therefore the meeting was not accessible via Zoom.
4  Board member Victor 
Moschella, who was participating remotely, acknowledged that when he clicked on the Zoom 
link listed on the meeting notice, it took him to a January meeting but when he entered the 
Webinar ID number and passcode listed on the notice, he was able to access the current meeting.  
After a brief discussion, the Board decided to continue with the meeting.   
 
At the time the Board was advised of the incorrect Zoom link, it had approved one set of 
meeting minutes and was discussing proposed amendments to the zoning bylaws relating to 
accessory dwelling units.  The Board continued to discuss zoning bylaw amendments with 
respect to accessory dwelling units and then discussed bylaw amendments to site plan review and 
approval.  Ultimately, the Board unanimously voted to forward the proposed zoning amendments 
“to the City Council to initiate the zoning amendment process.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
 
3 We remind the Board that when a member participates remotely, at the start of that meeting, “the chair shall 
announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely” and such information must be recorded in 
the meeting minutes.  See 940 CMR 29.10(7)(b).  In addition, when Board members participate remotely, all votes 
taken during that meeting must be by roll call vote, even unanimous votes.  See  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); OML 2016-
132; OML 2015-145.  A roll call vote is “the act or an instance of calling off a list of names.”  Webster’s Third New 
International Dictionary of the English Language, 683 (unabridged ed. 1961). 
4 We understand that the complainant was ultimately able to access the meeting remotely. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.5 
 
Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to Extending Certain 
COVID19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, temporarily suspended the 
requirement under the Open Meeting Law that meetings be held at a physical location that is 
accessible to the public as long as a public body instead provides “adequate, alternative means” 
of access to meetings through technology that enables the public to clearly follow the 
proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.
6  Section 20 allows some or 
all members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely but does not require a public 
body to provide remote access to its meetings if those meetings are instead held in-person at a 
location that is open and physically accessible to the public.  See OML 2023-52; OML 2021-
147. 
 
The complaint alleges t
 hat the Board failed to provide adequate alternative means of 
public access to the meeting held on February 13 where members of the public could not access 
the meeting via the Zoom link listed on the notice.  When all public body members participate in 
a meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without providing the public physical 
access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide the public with adequate, 
alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the proceedings in real time.  See 
OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 20, § 20(b).  However, a public body may hold in-
person meetings, as long as access to the meeting includes the opportunity to be physically 
present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  
See OML 2021-148; OML 2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.   
 
We acknowledge that the notice here included two locations for the public to access the 
Board’s February 13 meeting – in person and via Zoom – and that the meeting notice included an 
incorrect Zoom link.
7  However, the Webinar ID number and passcode listed on the notice were 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
6 These provisions have been extended several times since their inception, most recently on March 28, 2025, when 
Governor Maura Healey signed into law a bill which further extended the expiration of the temporary provisions to 
June 30, 2027.  See Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2025. 
7 We note our concern with the Board’s explanation that a notice with the correct Zoom information was sent to the 
City Clerk’s office which is “the official ‘place of public notice.’”  For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with 
the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c).  Alternatively, a municipality may designate a 
website as its official notice posting location for all public bodies within the municipality.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
The official posting location for the City of Greenfield is the municipal website, http://www.greenfield -ma.gov/, 
which was adopted in 2013.  The municipal website includes a calendar where all notices are posted.  Moreover, the 
Board’s webpage on the municipal website specifically states: “Please check the calendar for scheduled meeting 
information, including agendas.”  Although public bodies are welcome to post notice of their mee tings in multiple 
locations if they choose, a local public body has one official notice posting location for purposes of complying with 
the Open Meeting Law.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c); OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.  We further note our 
concern with one Board member’s recollection of a response from an Assistant Attorney General during a webinar 
training offered by the Division of Open Government on February 26.   While the Division does offer an opportunity 
for questions and answers during webinar trainings, we do not give advisory opinions about whether particular 
circumstances violate the Open Meeting Law and only provide general information about the requirements of the 
Law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
correct and, if entered in Zoom, would bring individuals to the February 13 meeting.  In addition, 
the p
hysical meeting location at the John Zon Community Center was accessible to any 
individual who wished to attend the meeting and a quorum of members of the Board were 
present at this location.  We find here that the February 13 meeting was accessible where an 
individual could attend the meeting by means of the information posted on the notice, such as 
through the Webinar ID number and passcode, as the complainant was able to do, and follow the 
proceedings of the Board in real time.  See OML 2020-111.  Thus, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.  Because the meeting was accessible via both methods advertised 
on the meeting notice—in-person and remotely by Zoom—we need not address whether the 
Board would have violated the Open Meeting Law if it had proceeded with a meeting that was 
posted as a hybrid meeting but not accessible remotely at all.
8  In any event, we encourage public 
bodies to provide multiple means of access to their meetings when possible and remind public 
bodies to take care to ensure that meeting access information is listed correctly on the meeting 
notice.  
 
With respect to the concerns raised in the complaint that by not providing remote access 
the c
omplainant was unable to participate in the meeting, we do not find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation in its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f); see also OML 2021-27; OML 2020-161; OML 2017-189; OML 
2014-23; OML 2012-78.  We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public 
participation as time and circumstances permit.  See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 
2012-59.  
 
Alt
hough the Open Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be 
permitted to speak or otherwise actively participate during a meeting, numerous laws in the 
Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes certain action.
9  
The specific procedures for notice and conduct of the public hearing are governed by the law 
requiring the hearing and such law may require opportunity for public comment.  However, the 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting 
a public hearing.  Therefore, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions 
taken by the Board could be a violation of any public hearing law or regulation.  See OML 2014-
31; OML Declination 1-25-18 (Rowley Planning Board); OML Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook 
Planning Board).   
 
 
8 We understand that the Greenfield City Code requires the Board to provide remote access to meetings.  However, 
the Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on whether a failure 
to provide remote access would violate the city code or some other law or regulation outside the scope of the 
Division’s review.   
9 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of 
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or 
cemeter
y is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed 
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal, 
application or petition).   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Stephanie Duclos – By email only:   
Greenfield Planning Board c/o Director Eric Twarog – By email only: 
eric.twarog@greenfield-ma.gov   
Greenfield City Clerk – By email only: cityclerk@greenfield-ma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
