===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 11,2015 
OML 2015-33 
Wynona Lynch-McWhite, Chairperson 
Harvard Parks and Recreation Commission 
13 Ayer Road 
Harvard, MA 01451 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Lynch-Mc White: 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe, dated December 16, 
2014, alleging that the Harvard Parks and Recreation Commission (the "Commission") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Commission on October 6, 2014, and the Commission responded to the original complaint by 
letter dated November 17, 2014. In her complaint, Ms. Skauen-Hinchliffe alleges that the 
Commission (i) held a meeting without posting notice 48 hours in advance; (ii) failed to list an 
anticipated discussion item on a meeting agenda; and (iii) deliberated by e-mail outside of an 
open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that one e-mail sent by Commission member Joseph 
Schmidt violated the Open Meeting Law. However, we decline to review the other allegations 
contained in the complaint, as they are untimely. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint; the Commission's response; and the request for further review filed with our 
office. Additionally, we reviewed several e-mails sent by Commission members during the time 
period between May 2014 and July 2014. Finally, we reviewed minutes of a meeting of the 
Commission held on July 7, 2014, and draft minutes of a meeting of the Commission held on 
June 2, 2014. 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-member public body that meets 
at regular intervals to discuss and act on matters relevant to the administration and maintenance 
of parks with the Town of Harvard ("the Town"). Of significance, the Commission engaged in 
discussion concerning the Bare Hill Rowing Association ("the BHRA"), a private club that has 
an arrangement with the Town permitting its use of a beach and a pond located in the Town. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
On May 22, 2014, Commission member Joseph Schmidt sent an e-mail to the other 
members of the Commission. It reads, "Something to consider. The reason [BHRA] was given 
storage space at the Pond for the summer was to offer programs to Harvard residents on the pond 
why are allowing them space on the pond during our busy season, [sic] We could use the space 
for the over 40 requests for kayak[s] and canoes that we cannot honor. I do not consider a 
competitive rowing program for team members only an enhancement for Harvard residents. 
Remember we represent all Town residents." It does not appear that any Commission members 
responded to this e-mail. 
On June 1, 2014, Chair Lynch-McWhite sent an e-mail to the other Commission 
members and to the Town Clerk containing the agenda for a meeting to be held the following 
night, June 2, 2014. The Town Clerk responded by e-mail on June 2, 2014, stating that meetings 
must be posted 48 hours in advance, and that the Commission should reschedule the meeting for 
a date when more notice could be given. The members discussed rescheduling the meeting via 
email, but were unable to find a mutually agreeable time to meet. On the morning of June 2, 
2014, Chair Lynch-Mc White sent an e-mail to the other Commission members stating, in part, 
"Our meeting is posted as being tonight so let's plan on getting together- those that can make it." 
The Commission held an open session meeting on June 2, 2014. 
On July 7, 2014, the Commission held a meeting during which it discussed matters 
related to the BHRA. The agenda for the July 7, 2014 meeting did not list the BHRA as an 
anticipated topic of discussion. 
On July 20, 2014, a person associated with the BHRA sent an e-mail to Chair Lynch-
McWhite. This e-mail contained an attachment outlining proposed changes to the BHRA's 
contract with the Commission. Chair Lynch-Mc White forwarded the e-mail to the other 
members of the Commission, stating only, "Here is an electronic version of the proposed 
changes and the original message from [the sender]." It appears that no Commission members 
responded to this e-mail. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Complaint's Allegations Regarding the June 2, 2014 and July 7. 2014 
Meetings are Untimely. 
The Open Meeting Law states that all complaints must be filed within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been 
discovered at the time it occurred, the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 
days of when it reasonably could have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
The Commission's June 2, 2014 and July 7, 2014 meetings took place entirely in open 
session. To be timely, therefore, the complaint concerning the notice for these meetings should 
have been brought within 30 days of each meeting. Because the allegations at issue here were 
brought after that time, we decline to review them. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52. 
However, we take this opportunity to remind the Commission of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law. Notice of every meeting must be posted "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and every notice shall include "the date, time 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2011-34. 
II. A Member of the Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating 
via E-mail. Outside of an Open Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id However, deliberation does not include "the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is generally a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. Id. Expression of an opinion on matters within a 
body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15. 
Here, we find that the May 22, 2014 e-mail sent by Mr. Schmidt violated the Open 
Meeting Law. His e-mail specifically endorses a position on a matter within the Commission's 
jurisdiction — that is, whether to allow BHRA continued use of town resources. This discussion 
should have taken place during an open meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Because it 
does not appear that any member of the Commission responded to Mr. Schmidt's e-mail, we find 
that this was an individual violation, rather than a violation by the Commission as a whole. See 
OML 2014-148. We note that another recent determination by our office found that the 
Commission had deliberated by e-mail outside of an open meeting. See OML 2015-3. Because 
the violation at issue here took place prior to the receipt of that determination, we do not consider 
this violation to be intentional. 
We do not find that the Chair's July 20, 2014 e-mail violated the law. This email was 
intended solely to distribute a document to be discussed at a meeting, and the Chair did not 
express any opinions therein. We therefore find that this email fell within an exception to the 
definition of deliberation and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Commission member Joseph Schmidt 
individually violated the Open Meeting Law. We order immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the law. We also order that the Commission release to the public, within 30 
days following receipt of this letter, the May 22, 2014 e-mail from Commission member Joseph 
Schmidt. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 