===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 19, 2019
OML 2019-164
Patricia Correa
First Assistant Town Counsel
Town of Brookline Office of Town Counsel
333 Washington Street
Brookline, MA 02445
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Correa:
This office received a complaint from Brooks Ames on May 31, 2019, alleging that the 
Brookline Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 11, 2019, 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 22, 2019. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by denying Attorney 
Ames’ client, Gerald Alston, rights granted under executive session Purpose 1; namely, the right 
to be present at an executive session in which his reputation, character, and mental health were 
discussed. The complaint further alleges that the Committee did not have the necessary authority 
over the litigation discussed to justify meeting in executive session under Purpose 3, which 
allows public bodies to meet in executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3).
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this complaint. Following 
our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session without a proper purpose. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open 
Meeting Law complaint; the Committee’s response; the request for further review; the meeting 
minutes for the Committee’s March 7 open session; the meeting minutes for the Committee’s 
March 7 executive session, which we reviewed in camera; the Committee’s page on the Town of 
Brookline’s website; the Town of Brookline’s General By-laws; Massachusetts General Laws 
Chapter 39, Section 16 and Chapter 40, Section 6; the February 14, 2019, Civil Service
o
1

===PAGE 2===
Commission Decision; the December 1, 2015, federal complaint; the August 14, 2018, amended 
federal complaint; the August 7, 2017, Order on Report and Recommendation issued by the 
federal court; and the September 13, 2019, order by the federal court denying Attorney Ames’ 
motion for contempt as well as the Motion for Contempt and the Town’s Opposition. We also 
communicated by phone and email with the First Assistant Town Counsel.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee, which was established under Massachusetts 
General Laws Chapter 39, Section 16, consists of 20 to 30 registered voters of the Town of 
Brookline (the “Town”). The primary function of the Committee is to review and make non­
binding recommendations on all matters to be considered by Town Meeting. In addition to its 
role advising Town Meeting, the Committee has sole authority to approve transfers from the 
Reserve Fund, a fund established to address unforeseen or emergency expenditures. When asked 
to approve a transfer from the Reserve Fund for a litigation matter, the Committee is sometimes 
provided with information about the litigation matter requiring funds.
On October 5, 2016, the Brookline Select Board (the “Board”) voted to terminate Gerald 
Alston, Attorney Ames’ client, from his position as a Brookline firefighter. In response, Mr. 
Alston filed an appeal with the Civil Service Commission (the “Commission”) contesting his 
termination (the “Civil Service Appeal”). The Commission denied Mr. Alston’s appeal on April 
13, 2017. Mr. Alston appealed the denial to the Superior Court, which, on April 11, 2018, 
vacated the Commission’s decision and remanded Mr. Alston’s appeal for an evidentiary 
hearing. On February 14, 2019, after a ten-day hearing, the Commission voted to reverse the 
action of the Board and order that Mr. Alston be reinstated (the “Civil Service Decision”).
Prior to the Committee’s March 7 meeting, the Committee and one of its subcommittees 
each discussed the Civil Service Appeal and a related federal lawsuit filed by Attorney Ames on 
behalf of Mr. Alston in connection with approving transfers from the Reserve Fund to the Office 
of Town Counsel for litigation expenses. At the time of the Committee’s March 72 meeting, the 
Town was contemplating whether to appeal the Civil Service Decision. Before the Committee’s 
March 7 meeting, a Committee member submitted a proposed resolution urging the Board not to 
appeal the Civil Service Decision. The notice for the Committee’s March 7 meeting included 
several items related to this resolution, including item four, which was “Executive session for the 
purpose of discussing litigation strategy in the matter of Gerald Alston v. Town of Brookline, 
Civil Service Commission No. Dl-16-170.”
In addition to the Civil Service Appeal, as noted above, Mr. Alston also filed a federal 
lawsuit against the Town and others on December 1, 2015. The federal litigation is ongoing. In 
an amended complaint in the federal litigation, Attorney Ames, as Mr. Alston’s counsel, quoted a 
January 5, 2016, statement issued by the Town’s Diversity, Inclusion and Community Relations 
Commission (the “DICR Commission”) regarding institutional racism in the Town. On April 5, 
2016, the DICR Commission issued a follow-up statement clarifying that its earlier statement 
was not based on any investigation and did not constitute factual findings. In the most recent
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
2 All dates hereafter are in 2019 unless stated otherwise.
2

===PAGE 3===
amended complaint, dated August 14, 2018, Attorney Ames continues to quote the DICR 
Commission’s January 5, 2016, statement without noting the April 5, 2016, clarifying statement.
The original federal complaint named Stanley Spiegel, a now former member of the 
Committee, as an individual defendant. The complaint alleged that Mr. Spiegel distributed a 
letter attacking Mr. Alston to Town Meeting members, that Mr. Spiegel was improperly given 
information from Mr. Alston’s medical records, that Mr. Spiegel was improperly given access to 
Mr. Alston’s personnel file, and that Mr. Spiegel suggested to a member of the public that there 
was damaging information in Mr. Alston’s personnel file and that she would not support Mr. 
Alston if she learned that information. After being provided with guidance from the court and an 
opportunity to amend the complaint with regard to, among other things, the claims against Mr. 
Spiegel, Attorney Ames failed to cure the insufficiencies. Attorney Ames was ultimately 
sanctioned by the court under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11 for the continued inclusion of 
Mr. Spiegel as a defendant.
During the March 7 meeting, the Committee voted to enter executive session to discuss 
litigation strategy under Purpose 3 with regard to the Civil Service Appeal. The minutes of the 
executive session have not been released to the public and were reviewed in camera; therefore, 
we only summarize their content here. During the March 7 executive session, the Committee, 
with the First Assistant Town Counsel and outside counsel for the Town, discussed the Civil 
Service Appeal, the federal lawsuit, and procedural and factual history pertaining to these 
matters. The Committee also discussed the potential impact on the Town’s litigation should the 
Committee vote to issue a resolution regarding the appeal of the Civil Service Decision.
DISCUSSION
L The Committee Did Not Improperly Discuss Mr. Alston’s Reputation, Character, and
Mental Health in Executive Session.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (Purpose 1). G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(l). 
Under this purpose, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, including the right to 
individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or her behalf, to have 
counsel present, and to record the executive session.
The complaint alleges that the Committee met in executive session to discuss the 
reputation, character, and mental health of Mr. Alston and that the Committee failed to afford 
Mr. Alston his rights under Purpose 1. After review of the executive session minutes, we find 
that the executive session discussion concerned the Civil Service Appeal and federal lawsuit and 
was not focused on Mr. Alston’s reputation, character, and mental health. To the extent that Mr. 
Alston was discussed specifically, that discussion was incidental to the conversation concerning
3

===PAGE 4===
the two litigation matters. See OML 2017-39.3 Furthermore, when a discussion may be properly 
held under multiple executive session purposes, the public body may choose which executive 
session purposes to utilize. For example, where a discussion may properly be held under Purpose 
1 or Purpose 3, a public body may choose to hold its discussion under Purpose 3, in which case 
the public body is not required to afford the subject of the discussion the rights granted under 
Purpose 1. See OML 2012-53; OML 2014-134; OML 2015-64. Accordingly, we find no 
violation with respect to this allegation.
2. The Committee Improperly Met in Executive Session Under Purpose 3.
A public body may also enter executive session “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to . .. 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the ... litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares” (Purpose 3). G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3). A public body's 
discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive 
session purpose. See Plymouth Dist. Atty v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough. 395 Mass. 629 
(1985); OML 2012-55. Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect 
to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably 
likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. 
School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-5. To invoke Purpose 3, a public body 
must have a litigating position to protect. See OML 2012-55; OML 2011-47 (where Town 
Meeting passed an article specifically including the Finance Committee in aspects of the 
litigation strategy beyond its traditional budgetary oversight role, the Committee had a litigating 
position to protect.); OML 2018-110 (where the Subcommittee's role was to advise on issues 
relating to the school district agreement, and breach of that agreement was threatened, the 
Subcommittee had a litigating position to protect and properly met in executive session to 
discuss initiating litigation if the contract were breached.). The exceptions to the general rule that 
meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); OML 2014-42.
Under Purpose 3, a public body has a litigating position to protect if there is a pending 
litigation in which the public body has a litigating position, or if litigation is clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. We first consider whether the 
Committee had a litigating position to protect in either the Civil Service Appeal or the federal 
litigation.
Attorney Ames argues that the Committee “did not have any authority to make decisions 
about the underlying civil service matter at issue” and generally “has no authority to initiate 
litigation, defend litigation, or otherwise take positions in litigation.” Citing to the Town’s 
General By-Laws and Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 39, Section 16, the Committee 
responds that it has broad authority to “consider any and all municipal questions ... for the 
purpose of making reports and recommendations to the Town ...” (ellipses in original). The 
Committee also points to its authority under Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 40, Section 6, 
to approve transfers from the Town’s Reserve Fund and notes that it must sometimes approve
3 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4

===PAGE 5===
Reserve Fund transfers for litigation expenses.4 For purposes of our analysis under Purpose 3, it 
is unnecessary for us to determine the extent of the Committee’s authority with respect to 
litigation matters in general. Instead, we must determine whether the Committee had a litigating 
position to protect specifically with regard to the Civil Service Appeal and federal litigation. We 
find that the Committee did not.
From the facts provided it is clear that the Committee had no decision making authority 
with regard to the two litigation matters. The Committee was not a named party in the Civil 
Service Appeal or the federal litigation, nor had it participated in any decision making with 
regard to either matter other than performing the limited role of determining whether to approve 
Reserve Fund transfers. Indeed, during a February 28 meeting of the Committee in which the 
Civil Service Appeal was discussed in the context of a Reserve Fund transfer, the First Assistant 
Town Counsel stated that the Board—not the Committee—was ultimately responsible for 
deciding whether or not the Town would appeal the Civil Service Decision. The March 7 
discussion of the Civil Service Decision arose not because the Committee had decision making 
power or authority over the conduct of the litigation, but rather because an individual Committee 
member requested that the Committee vote on a non-binding resolution encouraging the Board 
not to appeal the Civil Service Decision. We find that the Committee’s decision to discuss the 
litigation of another public body is not sufficient to establish that the Committee had a litigating 
position to protect as required to enter executive session under Purpose 3.
Next, the Committee suggests that litigation was clearly and imminently threatened or 
demonstrably likely for two reasons: 1) Attorney Ames had quoted the DICR Commission’s 
January 5 public statement in the federal lawsuit and this led to document discovery and public 
records requests, and 2) Attorney Ames had, without sufficient basis to do so, included a former * 3
4 The Committee cites two cases in support of its contention that it properly met in executive session under Purpose
3 “to discuss with counsel... the litigation position impacts raised by the prospect of the Advisory Committee 
making such a statement....” The first case cited by the Committee is Doherty v. School Comm, of Boston. 386 
Mass. 643 (1982), in which the court stated that “in light of... pending litigation over the funding of the Boston 
public schools, [including litigation between the School Committee and the Boston Teachers Union,] the school 
committee could properly anticipate a challenge by the Boston Teachers Union to layoffs based on the limited funds 
available to the school committee. Thus, the school committee’s meeting falls within the exemption provided by 
[Purpose 3].” Doherty. 386 Mass. 643, 648 (internal citation omitted). The second case cited is Inception v. 
Commonwealth. 26 Mass. L. Rptr. 551 (Worcester Super. Ct. March 23,2010), in which the court held that “where 
the attorneys and representatives of state agency tenants met to discuss vacating the [leased] premises, the 
Commonwealth could anticipate legal action by Inception, and [executive session Purpose 3] applies.” Inception. 26 
Mass. L. Rptr. 551, at *3. Each of these cases is distinguishable from the matter before us because in each litigation 
against the public bodies themselves was demonstrably likely. In the instant case, the Committee’s discussion 
concerned the litigating position of a different public body.
The Committee also points to an order in the federal litigation denying Attorney Ames’ motion for contempt. 
Attorney Ames had filed a motion for contempt claiming that a protective order in the federal case had been violated 
when certain protected information was shared with the Committee during the March 7 executive session. The court 
denied Attorney Ames’ motion for contempt “substantially for the reasons stated in the defendant’s memorandum in 
opposition.” Electronic Order, Alston v. Town of Brookline, No. 15-13987-GAO (D. Mass. Sep. 13,2019), ECF 
No. 417. This order is not determinative of the present Open Meeting Law complaint, nor do we find it persuasive as 
the court was evaluating whether the protective order was violated, not whether the Committee had a litigating 
position to protect.
5

===PAGE 6===
member of the Committee as a defendant in the federal litigation. We find both arguments 
unavailing. First, the fact that a statement made by one public body might be quoted or even 
misquoted in a litigation matter in which another public body is a party is not sufficient evidence 
that litigation against the quoted public body is clearly and imminently threatened or 
demonstrably likely. Second, we find that the circumstances surrounding the inclusion of Mr. 
Spiegel in the federal lawsuit are different from those surrounding the Committee’s potential 
issuance of a non-binding resolution. As described in the federal complaint and the order for 
sanctions, Mr. Spiegel allegedly distributed to Town Meeting members a letter attacking Mr. 
Alston, was improperly given certain information from Mr. Alston’s medical records, was 
improperly given access to Mr. Alston’s personnel file, and suggested to a member of the public 
that there was damaging information in Mr. Alston’s personnel file and that she would not 
support Mr. Alston if she learned that information. By contrast, there has been no suggestion that 
in requesting that the Committee vote on a non-binding resolution, any member of the 
Committee acted in a way that might have subjected themselves or the Committee to the threat of 
litigation. Moreover, the claims against Mr. Siegel had already been dismissed prior to the March 
7 meeting. We therefore find that litigation was not clearly and imminently threatened or 
otherwise demonstrably likely.
Though not binding, we find the decision in Collins v. Wayland Bd. of Selectmen, 31 
Mass. L. Rptr. 189 (Mass. Super. June 3, 2013) persuasive. In Collins, the Wayland Board of 
Selectmen met in executive session thirteen times to discuss litigation brought against the 
Wayland Historic District Commission (“HDC”). In finding that eleven of the thirteen executive 
sessions were lawful and two were not, the court stated “the Board may lawfully discuss matters 
relating to a potential litigating position of the Board in a closed session even where the Board is 
not a party to a lawsuit. But the fact that some town entity or official is involved in litigation 
does not give the Board license to discuss matters not affecting the Board's own litigating 
positions out of public view.” Collins. 31 Mass. Rptr. 189 at * 1. The court concluded that the 
Board of Selectmen lawfully met in executive session when it discussed issues such as how the 
Town’s refusal to pay for legal representation of the HDC would impact the Board of 
Selectmen’s own litigating position, whether the Board of Selectmen should intervene in the 
HDC litigation, whether to join an amicus curiae brief, and whether to initiate its own lawsuit. 
However, “[ojnce the Board determined that it was not going to seek to press its own position in 
any lawsuit... the litigation exception no longer applied to any further Board discussions ....” 
Id. at *4.
In the present matter, the Committee had no litigating position of its own. It was not 
meeting, for example, to discuss whether to intervene in the lawsuit, whether to join an amicus 
curiae brief, or whether to initiate its own litigation. Instead, it was considering whether to 
publicly comment on the litigation of another public body. That the Committee’s contemplated 
action may have impacted the Board’s ongoing litigation matters did not create a litigating 
position for the Committee.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by improperly entering into executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation strategy when 
it had no litigating position to protect. We order the Committee to release to the public the March 
7 executive session minutes. The Committee may not redact or withhold the minutes in any way.
6

===PAGE 7===
See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in 
compliance with section 21.”); Dist. Attv. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting Law] as a statutory 
public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental bodies 
except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2017-23.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
improperly meeting in executive session under Purpose 3. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. We further order the 
Committee to release the minutes of its March 7, 2019, executive session in accordance with the 
above guidance.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brooks Ames
Brookline Advisory Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
7
