===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 179 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Stephen J. Durkin, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor, City of Quincy 
sdurkin@quincyma.gov 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Durkin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Danielle Kempe on March 30, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Quincy Commission on Disabilities (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on February 28, 
and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated March 15. The complaint 
includes eleven separate allegations, many of which we decline to formally review for the 
reasons explained below.
2    
 
Following our review, we find that Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to comply with the Open Meeting Law’s certification requirement. In reaching this 
determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission’s 
response, the request for further review, and additionally information provided by the 
Commission and the Complainant. Additionally, we communicated with counsel for the 
Commission
3 and with the Complainant.  
 
Allegations We Decline to Review 
 
Of the eleven allegations raised in the complaint, we must decline to review ten because 
they either would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law even if true or were not 
timely raised. 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates are in 2022. 
2 The request for further review raises additional allegations. We decline to review any allegations raised in the 
request for further review as they were not raised in the original complaint filed with the Commission . See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-76; OML 2012-92.  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Allegations outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law 
 
The complaint alleges that 1) the Commission held fewer meetings than it is legally 
requir
ed to hold in a year; 2) the Chair consulted with the City, not other members of the 
Commission, when deciding to cancel the Commission’s February meeting; 3) when discussing 
an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Commission, the Chair refused to explain what 
the complaint was about and instead made inappropriate comments about the individual who had 
asked about the complaint; 4) the Chair failed to include topics on a meeting notice that were 
requested by fellow Commission members; 5) the Chair consulted with the City, not other 
members of the Commission, when deciding to change the day of the Commission’s monthly 
meeting; 6) the Commission only held an election for one position; and 7) there is no contact 
information for the Commission on its website. The Division of Open Government’s statutory 
authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review 
allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2021-32; OML 2019-85; OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners).
4 The above matters, even if true, would not violate the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, and we therefore decline to review them. 
 
Although we decline to review these allegations, we note that a public body must meet to 
revie
w an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with it, but the public body is not required to 
discuss the complaint in any particular depth. See OML 2017-149 (“That the Board may have 
chosen to refer the complaint rather than discuss its substance is the Board’s prerogative.”). 
Additionally, although an allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility does not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, our office encourages civility during meetings of public 
bodies. Finally, the Open Meeting Law requires that the notice for every meeting include, among 
other things, “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The law does not require the chair to add topics to a notice that 
are requested by fellow members of the public body. 
 
Allega
tions that were not timely raised  
 
To be considered timely, an Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public 
body withi
n 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). If the 
alleged violation could not have been known at the time it occurred—for example, if the 
violation took place in executive session—then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the 
date on which the alleged violation should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
When reviewing the timeliness of a complaint we consider when the action that is alleged to 
have violated the Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable, not when an individual 
complainant became aware of the action or of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML Declination 2-8-22 (Milton Select Board); OML Declination 12-18-20 (Pembroke Board 
of Health); OML Declination 5-21-12 (Montague Board of Selectmen). Violations that take 
place during an open session can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur. See OML 
2012-52.  
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Chair did not allow an attendee to record the 
Commission’s January 11 meeting. The Commission’s January 11 meeting was conducted 
entirely in open session; therefore, any violation that occurred during the meeting was 
discoverable at the time it occurred. The complaint was not filed with the Commission until 
February 28, 48 days after the alleged violation. Therefore, we decline to review the allegation 
that a member of the public was not permitted to record the Commission’s January 11 meeting.  
 
Although we decline to review this allegation, we remind the Commission that members 
of the
 public have an absolute right to make an audio or video recording or transmission of any 
open session meeting after notifying the chair. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f); OML 2013-179; OML 
2022-25. 
 
The complaint additionally alleges that the Commission includes insufficiently specific 
topic
s on its meeting notices. The complaint does not identify any particular meeting notices that 
are alleged to be insufficient but does provide two examples of topics alleged to be insufficient: 
“conversations with board members” and “email etiquette.” First, we note that complainants 
must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of 
public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington 
Board of Assessors). Next, based on a review of Commission meeting notices posted online, the 
only meeting that was scheduled to take place in the 30 days before the complaint was filed was 
a February 9 meeting; however, this meeting was canceled. Therefore, there are no meeting 
notices for which a complaint about the specificity of the notice would be considered timely, and 
we therefore decline to review this allegation.  
 
Although we decline to review this allegation, we remind the Commission that meeting 
notic
e topics must be listed with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
specific matter to be discussed; in general, generic notice topics, such as “Conversations with 
Board Members,” are insufficient to comply with the Open Meeting Law when specific topics 
are anticipated by the chair. See OML 2021-121 (boilerplate “placeholder” notice topics 
insufficient to comply with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2020-34; OML 2019-92; OML 2016-
167. 
 
Fina
lly, the complaint alleges that Commission meeting minutes are inaccurate. Again, 
the complaint does not identify any specific meeting minutes that are inaccurate, stating only 
“[m]inutes are inaccurate - missing details of votes and topics discussed.” Based on a cursory 
review of the Commission’s meeting minutes posted online, we find no set of minutes for which 
the February 28 complaint would have been timely filed. The latest set of approved minutes—for 
a meeting held on December 14, 2021—was approved on January 11, and the minutes for the 
January 11 meeting had not yet been approved at the time the complaint was filed.
5 Because this 
allegation was not timely raised with respect to any set of meeting minutes, we decline to review 
this allegation as well. 
 
 
5 The minutes for the January 11 meeting were approved during the Commission’s March 8 meeting . We generally 
decline to review the sufficiency of draft meeting minutes as a public body may revise draft minutes at any point 
prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail. See OML 2014-62; OML 2019-11; OML 2022-133; 
OML Declination 12-18-2020 (Fall River Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Although we decline to review this allegation, we note that in our cursory review of the 
Commission’s meeting minutes, we found instances in which it appears a vote was taken but not 
sufficiently recorded in the minutes. For example, the January 11 meeting minutes state that “[a] 
motion was made and seconded by the Commission to approve the December minutes. Tara 
Lynne abstained on voting due to not reading the minutes.” The minutes do not, however, 
include the result of any vote on the motion. Likewise, we found instances in which meeting 
minutes simply state that a discussion was held, but do not summarize the discussion. For 
example, the January 11 meeting minuets state “Chair Jeanette discussed agenda items: Meeting 
format and etiquette,” but do not summarize the discussion.   
 
We remind the Commission of its obligation to “cr
 eate and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2013-64; OML 2017-104. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes need not 
include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the 
discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
 
Allegation We Review 
 
The complaint alleges that Commission members failed to comply with the certification 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of 
qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed 
by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated 
pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general 
explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 19 . . . . The certification 
shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of 
the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). The Open 
Meeting Law regulations further define the educational materials that must be provided, 
including a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to the public body within the 
last five years in which our office found a violation. 940 CMR 29.04(1). Finally, the regulations 
clarify that “[a]n individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each 
public body on which he or she serves[,]” and that public body members “must sign a new 
certification upon reelection or reappointment to the public body.” 940 CMR 29.04(4)&(5). 
 
The Commission does not dispute that its members failed to complete the required Open 
Meeting Law certification form, explaining that the members had been unaware that they each 
must complete the form. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when its members failed to complete the required certification form within two weeks of 
appointment to the Commission. In response to the complaint, six of the nine Commission 
members completed the certification form. As of the date of this letter, the Commission has not 
===PAGE 5===
provided our office with the Open Meeting Law certification forms for Commission members
John Mulligan, Judith Mallock, and James DeGraff. Therefore, we order Commission members
Mulligan, Mallock, and DeGratt to complete the Open Meeting Law certification form within 30
days of the date of this letter, if they have not yet done so.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting
Law by failing to comply with the Open Meeting Law's certification requirement. We order the
Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Jeanette Kutash, Chair, Quincy Commission on Disabilities
(via e-mail:
-
Danielle Kempe (via e-mail:
Tara Lynne Ethier-Southard (via e-mail:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6 Any members who no longer serve on the Commission need not complete the certification form but are reminded
that they must complete the form if they serve on a public body now or in the future.