===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 22, 2014 
OML 2014-105 
Barbara Fletcher, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
Wayland Public Schools 
P.O. Box 408 
Wayland. MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Fletcher: 
This office received two complaints from George Harris (the complainant), dated 
November 18, 2013 and January 21, 2014, alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the 
Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaints allege that 
the Committee failed to review and release non-exempt executive session minutes over a period 
of several years; that released minutes of executive sessions were not sufficiently specific; and 
that some amendments to the executive session minutes created in response to these complaints 
were still not a reasonable summary of the executive session. The complaints finally allege that 
the Committee failed to respond in a timely fashion to a request for minutes as required by the 
Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
periodically review and release its executive session minutes. We also find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the complainant's request for minutes in 
the manner prescribed by the Law. Finally, while we find that the minutes contained an 
insufficient summary of the deliberations that took place, the Committee took appropriate 
remedial action in response to the present complaints by amending the minutes to include further 
detail. 
1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about August 28, 2013 and October 29, 2013, 
respectively. The Committee responded to the complaints by letters dated September 18, 2013 and December 3, 
2013, respectively. The Committee requested, on November 19,2013, an extension of time to respond to the 
October 29 complaint. This office granted that request and ordered the Committee to respond by December 3, 2013. 
1 
O 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints filed with the 
Committee; the Committee's responses; as well as the requests for further review filed with our 
office.2 Additionally, we reviewed executive session minutes from 2008 to the date of the 
complainant's minutes request, which have been released by the Committee. We also reviewed 
August 2014 e-mail correspondence between the Committee and the complainant, regarding his 
requests for executive session minutes. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. On July 1, 2013, the complainant requested from the 
Committee all of its executive session minutes. Though he did not specify a date range, we 
understand this request to encompass minutes from 1995 to the present. The Committee 
responded on August 1, 2013 by releasing the minutes of eight executive sessions. 
On August 7, 2013, the complainant reiterated his request for all of the Committee's 
executive session minutes. The Committee did not release any minutes in response to this 
second request. 
On August 28, 2013, the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint alleging that 
the Committee's failure to release minutes was in violation of the Open Meeting Law. In its 
September 10, 2013 response to this complaint, the Committee released to the public "all 
minutes or portions of minutes and documents filed with minutes of executive session meetings 
of the School Committee" for meetings that occurred after July 1, 2010. The Committee 
explicitly withheld those "minutes or portions of minutes and attached documents which, if 
released, would defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; reveal attorney-client 
privileged communications; or result in the release to the public of documents which are exempt 
from disclosure under the Massachusetts Public Records Law." The Committee further 
acknowledged that the release and review of executive session minutes should have occurred 
with greater frequency. Finally, the Committee adopted a procedure to review and release 
executive session minutes and documents filed with the minutes going forward. 
On October 7, 2013, the Committee released minutes for some executive sessions that 
occurred after July 1, 2010. On October 29, 2013, following his review of the released executive 
session minutes, the complainant submitted another complaint to the Committee alleging that 
several of these sets of minutes were insufficiently detailed and that the Committee had failed to 
review and respond to his August 7, 2013 request for minutes according to the timeline specified 
2 The complainant requested further review of his October 29, 2013 complaint by letter dated November 18, 2013. 
While this was more than 90 days after the date of the alleged violations, in correspondence with the complainant, 
our office mistakenly indicated that the deadline for filing with us was November 28, 2013. The date of the alleged 
violation was August 17, 2013, ten days after the last request for minutes. This office will decline requests for 
further review filed more than 90 days after the date of the alleged violation unless good cause is shown. 
940 CMR 29.05(6). This office, in its correspondence with the complainant, indicated that the 90 day date was 
November 28, 2013. This office's error constitutes good cause and thus we will review the complaint. 
3 The current Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, took effect on July 1, 2010. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
by the Open Meeting Law.4 The Committee responded by letter dated December 3, 2013 and 
agreed, without acknowledging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, to amend the minutes 
identified in the complaint and release them subject to the aforementioned limitations. The 
amended minutes were included in the Committee's response. The complainant requested this 
office further review his allegations by letter dated January 16, stating that he did not believe the 
minutes at issue, even as amended, contained sufficient detail. 
DISCUSSION 
We address the specific allegations of the complainant in turn. 
1. The Committee failed to review the minutes of its executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine whether continued non-disclosure was 
warranted, and failed to include that determination in its minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body, its chair, or the chair's designee "at 
reasonable intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if the continued non­
disclosure is warranted. Such determination shall be announced at the body's next meeting and 
such announcement shall be included in the minutes of that meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
Prior to the complainant's August 7, 2013 request for executive session minutes, the Committee 
had not reviewed the minutes of its executive sessions held after July 1, 2010. Instead, the 
complainant's request prompted such a review. 
We find that the Committee's failure to periodically review its executive session minutes 
to determine whether their continued non-disclosure was warranted, and failure to then announce 
that determination during a meeting and note it in the minutes, violated the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). In response to the complaint, the Committee reviewed all of its post-
July 1, 2010 minutes, and adopted a prospective policy of reviewing its executive session 
minutes on a quarterly basis.5 We find that the Committee took appropriate remedial action in 
response to the complaint. 
2. The Committee failed to respond in a timely manner to a request for executive 
session minutes. 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c, 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has not yet reviewed the minutes to determine 
whether continued confidentiality is warranted, it must do so by its next meeting or within 30 
days, whichever is sooner. Id. Here, while it is not clear whether the Committee responded 
within 10 days to the complainant's request, it is clear that the Committee did not complete the 
4 The executive sessions for which the complainant alleged insufficient detail in the minutes took place on 
September 13, 2010; September 20, 2010; May 9, 2011 (two sessions); March 26, 2012; and May 21, 2012. 
5 We note that the Municipal Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, § 23B (repealed by St. 2009, c. 28), in force prior to 
July 1, 2010 contained no requirement that a public body periodically review executive session minutes to determine 
if continued non-disclosure was warranted. Accordingly, we commend the Committee's attempts to comply with 
this new requirement for minutes created prior to the current version of the Open Meeting Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
required review and did not release any of its post-July 1, 2010 minutes within 30 days of the 
July 1, 2013 request. While this violated the law, because the Committee did review the minutes 
and released them following its September 9, 2013 meeting, we order no further action. 
3. The Committee properly amended its executive session minutes to include more 
detail. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Our office will generally only review minutes for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2012-106; OML 2011-55. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106; OML 2011-55. 
The complainant alleges that the minutes of executive sessions held on September 13, 
2010; September 20, 2010; May 9, 2011; March 26, 2012; and May 21, 2012 fail to give the 
public a clear understanding of what occurred. In its response, the Committee agreed that the 
minutes at issue were an insufficient summary of the discussions and amended the minutes to 
include further detail. 
In his request for further review, the complainant alleges that these amendments still fail 
to provide the public with a clear understanding of what occurred. For example, the complainant 
requests additional clarification as to the identity of liasions with various Town committees. 
Counsel to the Committee, and the subjects of workplace grievances. We find that the amended 
minutes substantially comply with the requirement that minutes provide the public "with a clear 
understanding of what occurred." OML 2013-90. We therefore find that, while the minutes 
were insufficiently detailed when released, and therefore violated the Open Meeting Law, the 
Committee took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. We order no 
additional relief. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to review its executive session minutes at regular intervals to determine whether 
further non-disclosure was warranted; by failing to respond in a timely manner to the 
complainant's request for executive session minutes; and by failing to include sufficient detail in 
the summary of certain discussions that took place in executive session. In all cases, we find that 
the Committee took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any complaints 
that may be pending before this office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact this office at 
(617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General • 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris 
This determination was issued pursuant to G,L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 