===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 6, 2019 
OML 2019-145
Michael Goldsmith, Esq.
Reynolds, Rappaport, Kaplan & Hackney, LLC 
P.O.Box 2540 
Edgartown, MA 02539
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Goldsmith:
This office received four complaints from Patrick Kager and Catherine Clairmont1, 
alleging that the Edgartown Wastewater Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Kager’s first complaint was filed with the Commission 
on or about December 27, 2018. You responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated 
January 16, 2019, and the complaint was thereafter filed with our office on January 28, 2019.
Mr. Kager’s first complaint alleges that the minutes for the Commission’s November 29, 2018, 
meeting are inaccurate. Mr. Kager’s second complaint was filed with the Commission on or 
about December 31, 2018. You responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated January 
22, 2019 and the complaint was thereafter filed with our office on January 30, 2019. Mr. Kager’s 
second complaint alleges that the minutes for the Commission’s November 8 meeting are 
inaccurate.
Ms. Clairmont’s two complaints were filed with the Commission on or about December 
19, 2018. You responded to the first complaint2 on behalf of the Commission by letter dated 
January 9, 2019 and the complaints were thereafter filed with our office on January 22, 2019.
Ms. Clairmont’s first complaint alleges that (i) the notice for Commission’s November 8, 2018, 
meeting, was insufficient because it did not include a topic that was anticipated to be discussed; 
(ii) the Commission discussed an anticipated item not included on the notice; (iii) the 
Commission created an alternative notice that included the anticipated item; and (iv)
1 Catherine Clairmont and Patrick Kager have filed several related complaints against the Commission. These 
complaints are being addressed together where appropriate.
2 The Commission appears to have failed to respond to the second complaint. This failure is the subject of a separate 
Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Ms. Clairmont.

===PAGE 2===
Commission staff provided false information to the Complainants. Ms. Clairmont’s second 
complaint alleges that the Commission did not provide minutes in response to a request for 
minutes and, through its staff, made a misrepresentation about what was discussed at the 
November 8 meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to 
Ms. Clairmont’s November 123 request for meeting minutes within 10 days. We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission’s responses, the 
Complainants’ requests for further review, the final and draft notices for the November 8 
meeting, minutes and recordings of the November 8 and 29 meetings, minutes of the October 18 
meeting, and email exchanges between the Complainants and the Administrative Assistant for 
the Wastewater Department. We also communicated with counsel for the Commission4 and with 
Ms. Clairmont for further information and explanation.
FACTS
These complaints, and a series of other related complaints, stem from events related to 
the Complainants’ efforts to obtain a permit from the Commission to install a sewer line on 
Duarte Circle in Edgartown (the “Sewer Project”).
As to the specific complaints addressed in this determination, we find the facts as 
follows. On October 22, Ms. Clairmont emailed the Administrative Assistant for the Wastewater 
Department to confirm that the Sewer Project was scheduled to be discussed at the 
Commission’s November 29 meeting. The Administrative Assistant responded by email on 
October 24 confirming that the Sewer Project was scheduled to be discussed next at the 
November 29 meeting. On November 6, the Commission posted a notice for its November 8 
meeting which did not include the Sewer Project as a topic for discussion but did include the 
topic “Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the Regular Meeting of October 18, 2018 [Searle, Ellis, 
Murphy].”
At the November 8 meeting, the Commission took up the review and approval of minutes 
for its October 18 meeting. The October 18 meeting had included a discussion of the Sewer 
Project. The discussion regarding review of the October 18 minutes turned immediately to 
matters related to the Sewer Project, including the production of draft minutes for the October 18 
meeting to the Complainants, that the Sewer Project would next be brought up at the November 
29 meeting, the requirements the Complainants must meet for the Sewer Project, and the 
difficulties the Commission had had with the Complainants. This discussion lasted 
approximately 8 minutes and ended when the Administrative Assistant abruptly suggested that 
the meeting be adjourned and the Commission quickly voted to approve the October 18 meeting 
minutes.
On November 12, Ms. Clairmont emailed the Administrative Assistant asking, “[i]f our 
Duarte Circle project or related matters were discussed last Thursday (11/8/18), please provide
3 From here forward, all dates are in 2018 unless otherwise stated.
4 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
2

===PAGE 3===
the draft minutes of this within 10 days (per Chapter 30A, §22c of the open meeting laws per 
MGL Ch. 66 §6). We were told it was not going to be discussed, but just in case want to be 
aware of any developments or discussions.” On November 13, the Administrative Assistant 
replied by email stating “[t]he Duarte Circle project was not on the agenda and was not discussed 
in the meeting on November 8. The Commission is holding off until its meeting on November 29 
for further discussion.” At the time of Ms. Clairmont’s request, the minutes for the November 8 
meeting did not yet exist.
On November 28, the Complainants, in response to a public records request to the 
Wastewater Department, received a draft notice for the November 8 meeting that included the 
item “Brief Update: Duarte Circle Sewer Connection.” On December 3, Mr. Kager emailed the 
Administrative Assistant stating “[t]he attached agenda we received from Dave indicates that 
there was a ‘Brief Update: Duarte Circle Sewer Connection’ on the agenda for the 11/8/18 WWC 
meeting. Can you provide any minutes/notes and audio recording of that discussion?”
Draft minutes for the November 8 meeting were completed on or about December 11.
The Town Administrator produced the draft minutes to the Complainants on December 19 and 
the Commission approved the minutes on December 20.
On November 29, the Commission held a meeting at which the Sewer Project was 
discussed. The Commission approved the minutes for the November 29 meeting on December 
20.
DISCUSSION
L Ms. Clairmont’s Complaint Filed with the Commission on December 19. 2018. was
Timely Filed.
To be considered timely, a written complaint setting forth the circumstances which 
constitute the alleged violation must, among other things, be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). “[I]f the alleged violation .. . 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then [the complaint must be filed] 
within 30 days of the date [the violation] should reasonably have been discovered.” 940 CMR 
29.05(4).
The Commission argues that because the events complained of took place at the 
Commission’s November 8 meeting and the Complainant did not file her complaint until 
December 19, 2018, the complaint is untimely. We disagree. Normally, events that occur during 
an open session of a public body are deemed discoverable at the time they occur. See OML 
2012-52; OML 2014-85; OML Declination 4-30-13.5 In this case, however, the Complainant 
alleges that the draft notice is evidence that the Chair anticipated that the Sewer Project would be 
discussed at the November 8 meeting. The draft notice was supplied to the Complainant on 
November 28 in response to a public records request made to the Wastewater Department. The 
Complainant could not have discovered this evidence that allegedly shows the Chair had
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
anticipated the Sewer Project discussion until the draft notice was produced on November 28. 
Therefore, we find that the December 19 complaint was timely fded.
2. The Commission did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing the Sewer Project
at Its November 8 Meeting Even Though that Topic was not Included on the Notice.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the anticipated discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30 A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03 (l)(b); 
OML 2017-186; OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38.
On October 22, Ms. Clairmont emailed the Administrative Assistant to confirm that the 
Sewer Project was scheduled to be discussed at the Commission’s November 29 meeting. The 
Administrative Assistant responded by email on October 24 confirming that the Sewer Project 
was scheduled to be discussed next at the November 29 meeting. On November 6, the 
Commission posted a notice for its November 8 meeting which did not include the Sewer Project 
as a topic for discussion but did include the topic “Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the Regular 
Meeting of October 18, 2018 [Searle, Ellis, Murphy].” On November 28, the Complainants, in 
response to a public records request to the Wastewater Department, received a draft notice for 
the November 8 meeting that included the item “Brief Update: Duarte Circle Sewer Connection.”
The Complainants argue that the inclusion of the item “Brief Update: Duarte Circle 
Sewer Connection” on the draft notice for the November 8 meeting is evidence that the Chair 
had anticipated, 48 hours in advance, that the Sewer Project would be discussed at the November 
8 meeting. The Complainants further allege that the draft notice was not a draft at all but rather 
an alternative notice that was utilized but hidden from the public.
The Commission counters that the notice that included the item “Brief Update: Duarte 
Circle Sewer Connection” was indeed an earlier draft. The Commission explains that the 
Administrative Assistant drafted the notice and included the item “Brief Update: Duarte Circle 
Sewer Connection” because it had been an ongoing topic for the Commission. The Facilities 
Manager then removed the item from the final notice because the Commission had other 
business to address and had already committed to discussing the Sewer Project at its November 
29 meeting. Finally, the Commission states that the Chair did not anticipate that approval of the 
October 18 meeting minutes, which included a discussion of the Sewer Project, would lead to a 
substantive discussion about the Sewer Project.
In the absence of evidence showing that the Chair anticipated that a discussion of the 
Sewer Project would take place, we countenance the Commission’s account that the topic was 
not anticipated by the Chair. Furthermore, after review of the audio recording of the meeting, we
4

===PAGE 5===
\
find that the discussion of the Sewer Project arose when the Commission took up review of the 
October 18 meeting minutes, and a commissioner other than the Chair initiated the discussion. 
We find no evidence that the Chair anticipated discussing the Sewer Project at the November 8 
meeting, other than in the context of reviewing minutes of the October 18 meeting, which topic 
was properly included on the November 8 meeting notice. Where a public body's discussion 
naturally flows from its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to 
inform the public of the discussion that occurred. See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 
2014-38. Therefore, we find that the Commission did not violate the Law when a discussion of 
the Sewer Project arose out of a review of the October 18 meeting minutes. Although we do not 
find a violation of the Law, in the future, we strongly encourage the Commission to postpone 
discussion about topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to members of the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice.
3. The Commission Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Respond to the
November 12 Request for Meeting Minutes Within 10 Days.
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draff form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22 (c).
On November 12, Ms. Clairmont emailed the Administrative Assistant requesting “[i]f 
our Duarte Circle project or related matters were discussed last Thursday (11/8/18), please 
provide the draff minutes of this within 10 days (per Chapter 30a, §22c of the open meeting laws 
per MGL Ch. 66 §6).” The Administrative Assistant responded by email on November 13 stating 
that “[t]he Duarte Circle project was not on the agenda and was not discussed in the meeting on 
November 8.” The Commission has stated that, at the time of Ms. Clairmont’s request, the 
November 8 meeting minutes did not exist and that the draff minutes were completed on 
December 11. These draft minutes were then produced to Ms. Clairmont by the Town 
Administrator on December 19. The Commission further states that at the time the 
Administrative Assistant responded to Ms. Clairmont’s email, she had not yet begun to draff the 
minutes and that when she stated that the Sewer Project had not been discussed, she was relying 
on the meeting notice and did not recall the portion of the meeting where the Sewer Project was 
discussed.
We credit the Commission's account that minutes did not exist at the time it received Ms. 
Clairmont’s request. However, the Commission was still required to respond within 10 calendar 
days of the request with an explanation of whether the minutes did or did not exist in either 
approved or draff form. See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173. While we note the 
unusual nature of Ms. Clairmont’s request in that it was a qualified request that minutes only be 
produced if the Sewer Project was discussed at the meeting, the fact remains that the Sewer 
Project was discussed and Ms. Clairmont did request the November 8 meeting minutes. As such, 
the Commission should have responded to the request within 10 days with an explanation of 
whether the minutes did or did not exist. Accordingly, the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes. Because the meeting 
minutes have subsequently been provided to Ms. Clairmont, we order no further relief.
5

===PAGE 6===
4. The Minutes of the November 8 Meeting Were Accurate.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-5. When reviewing minutes 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2013- 64; OML 2017-104. By substantial compliance, we mean 
that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who 
did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106.
Mr. Kager alleges that “[t]he November 8th minutes do not accurately reflect what was 
discussed, voted and agreed for the following reasons. 1) Extensive omissions of important and 
substantive information 2) Discussion of future votes that were promised to be made at the next 
meeting (and were in fact made at the next meeting) 3) Did not reflect what was discussed in 
full: it was slanted to serve an agenda — not reflective [of] what was discussed in full scope.”
Mr. Kager gives three examples to support his allegation that the minutes of the 
November 8 meeting are inaccurate. First, he claims that the following two statements were 
omitted from the minutes: 1) the Facilities Manager stating: “As far as I’m concerned, they’ve 
complied with what we required them to do at this point to do their line [install the sewer main 
extension].” (explanatory note in original). 2) Commissioner Murphy stating: “What I want to 
discuss on the 29th is they can’t cherry pick which part of the approval... That’s what I’m talking 
about that they’re cherry picking. We can discuss on the 29th [November WWC meeting] but I’m 
not going to vote to allow one pump. I know it’s an engineering issue but if the deal was two 
functioning pumps then get two functioning pumps.” (explanatory note and ellipsis in original). 
Next, Mr. Kager alleges that the following quoted language does not accurately reflect what 
occurred: “Commissioner Murphy clarified with Mr. Thompson that when he had approved the 
Duarte Circle project, he had required that there be two pumps, referring to page 2-3 of the 
Minutes of October 18, 2018.” Mr. Kager states that “what Commissioner Murphy was referring 
to was his view regarding the intentions of the neighbors which had nothing to do with the two 
pump condition.”
We find that the Commission’s November 8 meeting minutes substantially comply with 
the requirement that they provide an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion 
at issue.6 We have consistently stated that a transcript is not required and that minutes need not
6 Though not raised in the complaint, based on our review of the recording of the November 8 meeting, we are 
concerned by the statement in the minutes “[tjhere being no other comments, Commissioner Murphy made a motion 
to approve the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of October 18, 2018 ....” The recording shows that an ongoing 
conversation was cut off when the Administrative Assistant abruptly requested that the meeting be adjourned. We 
caution the Commission that all deliberations must be conducted during a properly noticed meeting and must be 
accurately reflected in the meeting minutes. If additional discussions occurred after the meeting was adjourned, they 
should not have.
6

===PAGE 7===
include every remark or opinion. See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-121. While we appreciate that 
the Complainant feels the statements not included are important, we find that the specific 
statements the Complainant points to are not required in order to understand the discussion that 
occurred.
5. The Minutes for the November 29 Meeting are Insufficient with Regard to the Recording
of Commissioner Murphy’s Motion Only.
Mr. Kager alleges that the November 29 meeting minutes “do not accurately reflect what 
was discussed, voted and agreed for the following reasons ... 1) Inaccurate recording of 
important vote language that changes the meaning of the vote 2) Omissions of important 
substantive information and discussions 3) Lack of enough detail of critical information about 
decisions made, reasons for decisions made or promised to be made at future meetings 4) Did not 
reflect what was discussed in full: it was slanted to serve an agenda and did not reflect what was 
discussed in full scope 5) Inclusion of extraneous and defamatory language spoken by the 
Commissioners.”
Specifically, Mr. Kager states that the minutes inaccurately reflect a vote taken by the 
Commission where the minutes state “Commissioner Murphy made a motion that until there 
were two active, functioning pumps on the Kager-Clairmont line, the line could not be connected 
to the waste water system. Commissioner Ellis provided a second, and the motion carried 
unanimously by voice vote.” Mr. Kager argues that the minutes should reflect the vote as 
follows: “Until there are two active pumps active functioning pumps on that line or applications 
for two active functioning pumps that the line cannot be connected to the waste water system.” 
(emphasis in original).
We find the November 29 meeting minutes to generally be an accurate and detailed 
account of the discussion that took place. The meeting lasted approximately an hour and forty 
minutes and we find that the 11 pages of substantive minutes capture all topics discussed and 
reflect the various perspectives and points made by all who spoke at the meeting. As for Mr. 
Kager’s specific allegation that the language of a motion voted on during the meeting was not 
accurately reflected in the minutes, we agree that the minutes were not accurate in that regard. 
Specifically, the minutes do not include the statement in Commissioner Murphy’s motion “or 
applications for two active functioning pumps.” We find that the omission of this clause changes 
the meaning of the motion on its face. We do not, however, make any judgment as to how that 
language may or may not change the meaning of the motion as applied to the specific 
circumstances at issue between the Complainants and the Commission. Accordingly, we find that 
the Commission’s November 29 meeting minutes are insufficient as to the recording of 
Commissioner Murphy’s motion, and we order the Commission to amend its minutes to 
accurately reflect the language of Commissioner Murphy’s motion.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to respond to Ms. Clairmont’s November 12 request for meeting minutes within 10 days 
and by creating insufficient meeting minutes for it November 29 meeting. We find that the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. We order
7

===PAGE 8===
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar 
violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. 
In addition, we order the Commission to amend its November 29 minutes to accurately reflect 
the language of Commissioner Murphy’s motion and to certify to our office that it has done so 
within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick Kager
Catherine Clairmont
Edgartown Wastewater Commission
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
8
