===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
March 11, 2013 
OML 2013 — 27 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins alleging that the Swansea 
Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
In his first complaint, dated June 28, 2012, Mr. Higgins alleges that on June 23, 2012, the 
Board used Town Administrator James Kern "as a conduit to openly communicate, 
deliberate and makes (sic) decisions outside of an Open Meeting." 1  The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about June 25, 2012, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board to the original complaint by letter dated June 26, 2012. 
In his second complaint, dated July 23, 2012, Mr. Higgins alleges that based on a 
July 18, 2012 Facebook posting, the Board engaged in a deliberation outside of a properly 
posted meeting regarding its strategy for addressing the possibility that the Swansea 
Recreation Commission (the "Commission") might close its day camp. 2  The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on or about July 18, 2012 and you responded on behalf 
of the Board to the original complaint by letter dated July 19, 2012. 
We reviewed the June 25 and July 18, 2012 complaints; your June 26 and July 19, 
2012 responses to the complaints, on behalf of the Board; the June 28 and July 23, 2012 
In his June 28, 2012 letter, the complainant further alleges that the Board's notice for its June 26, 2012 
meeting failed to include sufficient detail about anticipated discussion topics. We decline to review the 
additional allegation because it is beyond the scope of the original complaint filed with the public body. 
Potential violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a public body should be alleged in a 
subsequent complaint filed with that body. This allows the public body an opportunity to investigate and 
take appropriate remedial action with regard to the additional allegations. 
2  In his July 23, 2012 letter, the complainant further alleges that Chairman Scott Ventura and Selectman 
Kenneth Furtado both visited the Recreation Commission's summer program Director, Katie Grillo, to 
discuss the Board's plan for any potential closing of the program. Again, we decline to review the additional 
allegation because it is beyond the scope of the original complaint filed with the public body. 
iJ 
===PAGE 2===
complaints filed with our office, requesting further review; two emails sent on June 23, 
2012; the Board's agenda for a June 26, 2012 meeting; and the text of Chairman Scott 
Ventura's Facebook posting. We also spoke by telephone with Chairman Ventura. 
Following our review, we find that Chairman Ventura individually violated the 
Open Meeting Law by sending an electronic communication discussing public business 
within the Board's jurisdiction to a quorum of the Board. We do not find that Mr. Ventura 
intentionally violated the law, however, but rather misunderstood the law in his attempt to 
accurately respond to Mr. Higgins' question. Additionally, we find that the Board did not 
deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Board has three members, thus two members constitute a quorum. On June 22, 2012, the 
Board posted notice for a June 26, 2012 meeting. Item 8 of the agenda listed "Recreation 
Commission Discussion" as an anticipated topic for discussion. 
June 23, 2012 Email 
On June 23, 2012, the complainant sent an email to the three members of the Board 
— Chairman Ventura, Robert Marquis and Kenneth Furtado — asking, "[w]hat is the 
`Recreation Commission discussion' on your agenda?" Later that day, Chairman Ventura 
responded by email to the complainant, Mr. Marquis and Mr. Furtado, with a courtesy 
copy to Mr. Kern. In Chairman Ventura's reply, he stated that earlier in the year, the 
Commission was "having some major issues" and the Board had discussed its options 
concerning the future of the Commission. Chairman Ventura then described and 
enumerated three options that were identified by the Board at that time. Chairman Ventura 
explained that the Board decided to take no action regarding the Commission "until recent 
votes regarding children with [a]utism being banned from the summer program, 
handpicked [j]unior [c]ounselors, minutes issues, poor decorum in the meetings and all the 
bad press...compelled [him] to re-open the discussion and revisit the Town's options." In 
closing, Chairman Ventura stated, "[t]hrough discussions with Jim Kern, it was relayed to 
me that my colleagues had similar concerns," therefore the Commission was placed on the 
Board's agenda as an item for discussion. 
July 18, 2012 Facebook Posting 
On July 18, 2012, Mr. Kern and Chairman Ventura discussed a contingency plan 
for the Commission if it closed its summer program. Following this conversation, 
Chairman Ventura posted a message to his personal Facebook page that was signed, 
"Scott." The message stated that the Board "continually stated that this was not about the 
summer program, that it was a program that was well run and that it would not be affected. 
I am only making one statement as this forum is not an appropriate one for me to be going 
back and forth on, yet an important tool because it reaches so many. This is a TOWN 
program run with TOWN money." Chairman Ventura further explained that the Board 
2 
===PAGE 3===
decided that if the Commission closed the summer program, the Town would re-open the 
program the following day. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v.  
School Committee of Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in 
relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among 
a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." Id. (emphasis added) 
In Chairman Ventura's June 23, 2012 email, the content of which we discuss 
below, he references a prior conversation he had with Mr. Kern, who shared with him the 
concerns of "[his] colleagues" regarding the Commission. During a telephone 
conversation with our office, Chairman Ventura was unable to recall whether Mr. Kern in 
fact relayed this message to him. While we credit Chairman Ventura's inability to 
recollect his conversation with Mr. Kern to the passage of time, a reference to his 
"colleagues" in this context strongly suggests that a quorum discussed the matter through 
Mr. Kern. In the absence of concrete evidence to the contrary, however, we are 
constrained to find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. Nevertheless, we 
remind the Board that a public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a 
particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty,  71 
Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications violate the spirit of 
the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the law). A public 
body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to communicate on matters that 
the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting. See District Attorney  
for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland,  451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) 
("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by 
conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the 
telephone, or in any other form.") Thus, Mr. Kern may solicit input from individual public 
body members regarding topics for upcoming meeting agendas, but may not facilitate 
serial communication between the Board's members. See OML 2012-105. 3  
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
With respect to the content of Chairman Ventura's email, which was sent to the 
entire Board,4  we find that he expressed policy positions and opinions on official matters 
that were under active consideration by the Board. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (excluding 
"scheduling" and "procedural" matters from the definition of "deliberation" provided that 
"no opinion of a member is expressed" (emphasis added)). Expression of an opinion on 
matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if 
no other public body member responds. See OML 2012-15; OML 2012-8; OML 2011-37. 
Certain discussions regarding procedural or administrative matters may relate to public 
business within a body's jurisdiction, such as where the discussion involves the 
organization and leadership of the public body, committee assignments, rules or bylaws for 
the body, and discussions of whether the body should consider or take action on specific 
topics at a future meeting. OML 2011-38; see also OML 2012-63 (finding that an email 
sent to a quorum of a Board relating to an individual Board member's authority to make 
decisions on behalf of the Board was public business within the Board's jurisdiction). 
Here, Chairman Ventura explained the various options that the Board previously discussed 
about how to handle the recent issues involving the Commission. Chairman Ventura then 
shared his opinion on the Commission's recent conduct, including "minutes issues, poor 
decorum in the meetings and all the bad press," which "compelled" him to re-open the 
Board's options at the June 26, 2012 meeting. While we acknowledge that Chairman 
Ventura likely intended to accurately respond to the question posed to the Board in the 
complainant's email, this was certainly a matter within the Board's jurisdiction and, 
because a quorum of the Board was copied, violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The July 28, 2012 posting to Chairman Ventura's individual Facebook page, 
however, did not constitute an improper deliberation under the Open Meeting Law because 
he did not communicate between or among a quorum of the Board.5  Furthermore, the 
content of the posting, in which Chairman Ventura defends the Board's prior action 
regarding the Commission during the Board's July 17, 2012 meeting, was not a 
communication on public business within the jurisdiction of the Board because it was a 
statement characterizing past acts for political purposes.6  See OML 2012-10. We caution 
Chairman Ventura and the Board, however, that social networking sites such as Facebook 
invite the temptation to deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Chairman Ventura individually violated 
the Open Meeting Law by sending an electronic communication discussing public business 
within the Board's jurisdiction to a quorum of the Board. Additionally, we find that the 
4  We acknowledge that by sending his email to the entire Board, the complainant invited Chairman Ventura 
to respond to all recipients of the email. 
5  We note that the communication was made to individuals following his personal Facebook page, which did 
not include the other Board two members. 6  We caution public body members to be conscious, when formulating such statements, of the need to limit 
discussion to the political statement and avoid discussing matters that are within the public body's 
jurisdiction. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Board did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting in violation of the Law. We 
order the Board to disclose the content of Chairman Ventura's June 23, 2012 email at a 
properly posted open meeting. Additionally, we order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any 
facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 