===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       April 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2021 – 169; OML 2024 –  64 
 
 
Mallory Aronstein 
Town Administrator  
Swansea Town Hall 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
 
By email only: MAronstein@swanseama.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Aronstein: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 10, 2021, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 25, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 10.  The complaint 
alleges that several topics listed on the notice for the Board meeting held on August 24 were 
insufficiently specific and that the Board failed to timely approve executive session minutes of a 
meeting held on May 25.   
 
Following our initial investigation of the complaint, our office issued a determination on 
November 29, that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient 
specificity with respect to one open session topic and by failing to approve the executive session 
minutes of the May 25 meeting in a timely manner.  We found the Board’s failure to timely 
approve the executive session minutes to be an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
The Board appealed the decision that it failed to timely approve executive session minutes to 
Superior Court, in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, 23(d).  Following its review of the matter, the 
Superior Court held that the portion of the Open Meeting Law regulation requiring timely 
approval of executive session meeting minutes was invalid, vacated that portion of the 
determination which found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
approve executive session minutes and remanded the complaint to our office with instructions to 
iss
ue a new determination.  Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 
2173CV00906 (Bristol Superior Court).   
 
In r
eaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, 
we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board meeting held on August 10, the notice and open 
and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on August 24, as well as a video 
recording of that meeting.
2  Finally, we communicated with the complainant on October 29, and 
with you on November 5. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On August 20, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on August 24.  The notice listed 12 topics, including a Discussion/Update from the 
Highway Department, Special Town Meeting – Review Proposed Warrant Articles, and an 
executive session to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property under 
Purpose 6, as well as to review and approve the executive session minutes of the Board’s May 25 
meeting.
3  Specifically, the executive session topics were listed as follows: “M.G.L.c30A, 
§21(6): to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares 
that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiation position of the public 
body: Map 60, Lot 77, South Street” and “M.G.L.c30a, §22(f): For the purpose of Review and 
Approval of Executive Session Minutes: May 26, 2021.”  In addition, the topic heading for the 
Discussion/Update from the Highway Department listed four subheadings that further advised 
the public of the topics to be discussed, which included Private Ways, High Hill Subdivision/ 
Nike Site Road, Access to Waterways, and Cummings Road.   
 
The August 24 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Board recognized 
two Boy Scouts for their work at the Swansea Animal Shelter, accepted the retirement of a 
Police Officer and approved the promotion of another Police Officer, and agreed to apply for 
state reimbursement for street paving.  The Board then received updates from the Highway 
Director who discussed private ways that are being maintained by the Town, the baseball field at 
the old Nike Site Facility and the unsafe condition of a building on that site, access to waterways, 
and repairs to Cummings Road.  The Board then reviewed the proposed warrant for the Special 
Town Meeting in November and briefly discussed certain of the articles, including those for 
police body cameras, Marijuana overlay, and the Town Hall project.  The majority of the 
discussion focused on the warrant article relating to the expansion of the Library and the Board 
heard from the Library Director and the Chair of the Library Building Committee, who were 
present at the meeting. 
 
 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on August 24 is available at: 
https://vimeo.com/channels/1046679/page:2. 
3 The notice indicates that the Board would review the executive session minutes of a meeting held on May 26.  In 
fact, the Board did not meet on May 26; rather, it held a meeting on May 25 in which it convened in executive 
session.  We caution the Board to review the notice before posting to ensure that the listed topics accurately reflect 
the anticipated discussions. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Finally, after discussing the remaining open session topics, the Chair announced that the 
Board would convene in executive session and read the two topics as they were listed on the 
notice.  The Board unanimously voted by roll call to enter into executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 6 and to approve one set of executive session meeting minutes.  During the executive 
session, the Board discussed purchasing a particular piece of property and approved but did not 
release the executive session minutes of the meeting held on May 25.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, and 
include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics 
shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
4 
 
I. The August 24 Meeting Notice Did Not Lack Sufficient Specificity w ith 
Respect to the Executive Session Topics but Did Lack Sufficient 
Specificity with Respect to One Open Session Topic.  
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enume
rated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members have voted by roll call to go into executive session, and the chair has 
publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a 
[public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the 
reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the August 24 meeting was insufficiently specific 
wit
h respect to the anticipated executive session topics because the notice failed to accurately 
identify the two specific executive session purposes that the Board would be convening under.  
We agree that the Board incorrectly referenced the Open Meeting Law statute both on the notice 
and in the verbal statement prior to entering executive session under Purpose 6 by referring to the 
relevant section as G.L. c. 30A, §21(6), instead of G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(6).  However, we find that 
the additional detail included on the notice accurately identified the executive session purpose 
where it precisely tracked the language of Purpose 6, which was to consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property, and the Board’s discussions related to the purchase of a 
particular piece of property.  A public body need not specifically identify the statutory purpose 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
for the executive session, as long as the topic makes clear which of the ten executive session 
purposes the public body is invoking.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2017-7. 
 
With respect to the Board’s review of one set of executive session minutes during the 
August
 24 meeting, we find that this topic was sufficiently specific.  Although the notice did not 
identify a specific executive session purpose, the notice listed the topic with sufficient 
information to advise the public of the discussions to occur, which was the review and approval 
of the executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on May 25.  We have stated that 
public bodies may enter into executive session under Purpose 7 to review executive session 
minutes and that the governing law for that purpose is the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2019-
81; OML 2013-199.  Although the Board did not specifically identify Purpose 7 as the specific 
executive session purpose that it would convene under, it did identify the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §22(f), as the statute that allowed it to review such minutes.
5  We recommend that 
the Board utilize Purpose 7 in the future if it plans to review and approve executive session 
meeting minutes in executive session. 
 
We next consider whether two open session topics were, as the complaint alleges, 
insu
fficiently specific.  First, the complaint alleges that the topic listed as “High Hill 
Subdivision/Nike Site Road” was insufficient because the Board did not discuss the High Hill 
Subdivision.  The Board admits that the notice “features an error” with respect to this topic and 
the topic should have been listed as “Nike Site Road Building.”  We agree and find that this open 
session topic was insufficient as it failed to provide the public with a sufficient understanding of 
the anticipated discussion.  See OML 2018-60.   
 
Second, the complaint alleges that the topic listed as “Special Town Meeting – Review 
Propos
ed Warrant Articles” did not include the specific proposed articles that the Board planned 
to discuss.  The Board states that it planned to continue its discussion of all proposed warrant 
articles that it initially discussed during its August 10 meeting.  Where a public body anticipates 
discussing specific budget items or Town Meeting warrant articles, it must specifically list them 
in its meeting notice.  See OML 2011-7.  However, where a public body is reviewing all articles 
for a Town Meeting warrant, it is not required to identify all warrant articles on its meeting 
notice.  See OML 2012-83.  Although the Board spent a majority of time discussing the article 
related to the Library, we find that this discussion was in fact one of several warrant articles that 
the Board discussed during the August 24 meeting and that the totality of the discussions during 
the meeting focused on the town warrant as a whole.  As such, we find that the notice for this 
meeting was sufficiently specific because it informed the public that the Board would be 
generally reviewing the special town meeting warrant and reflected the actual discussions held 
during the meeting.  See OML 2021-154; OML 2013-8.   
 
 
 
5 G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) states, in relevant part, that the minutes of any executive session, the notes, recordings or other 
materials used in the preparation of such minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety as 
long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.  When the purpose for 
which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents of the 
session shall be disclosed. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
II. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely 
Approve the Executive Session Minutes of its May 25 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law further states that “[m]inutes 
of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” while requiring that 
minutes of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).   
 
Since 2017, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations have provided that 
minut
es of “all open and executive sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” 
and that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 
29.11(2).  We have previously advised public bodies that they must create and approve both 
open and executive session minutes in a timely manner and that approval of executive session 
minutes is a separate and unrelated obligation from the requirement that executive session 
minutes be periodically reviewed to determine whether the minutes should be released to the 
public.  See, e.g., OML 2021-169; OML 2019-115.  However, the Bristol Superior Court 
recently explained that the Open Meeting Law does not require executive session minutes to be 
approved in a timely manner and that the Open Meeting Law regulation requiring approval of 
executive session meeting minutes “imposes additional requirements on the maintenance of 
executive session minutes that cannot be read in harmony with the statute and thus is invalid.”  
See Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol 
Superior Court).   
 
Public bodies still have an obligation to create and maintain minutes of executive 
ses
sions, and to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if 
continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted and announce that determination at the next 
meeting following its review.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.  
Although “reasonable intervals” is not defined by the law, our office has consistently found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2022-233; OML 
2019-45; OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180.  Here, the Committee reviewed and 
approved the minutes of the May 25 meeting during a meeting held on August 24 and 
determined that such minutes would continue to be withheld.  Where the Committee reviewed 
the May 25 executive session minutes three months later at a meeting held on August 24, we find 
that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We remind the Committee that after 
reviewing the executive session minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is 
warranted, the Committee must announce at its next open session meeting that determination and 
include such announcement in the minutes of that meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with a sufficient understanding of the Nike Site Road Building open 
session topic.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways 
alleged.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.   
 
We now cons
ider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Swansea Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Christopher Carreiro – By email only: 
ccarreiro@town.swansea.ma.us   
Anthony Savastano, Esq. – By email only: anthony@savastanolawfirm.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
