===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ ago 
Mr. Joshua R. Coleman, Esq. 
Collins, Loughran & Peloquin, P.C. 
320 Norwood Park South 
Norwood. MA 02062 
December 19, 2014 
OML 2014-147 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coleman: 
This office received two related complaints from Ms. Lisa Cappello and Ms. Desiree 
Aselbekian. Both complaints allege that the Southborough Board of Selectmen (the "Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by deliberating outside of an open 
meeting.1 Ms. Cappello's complaint was dated July 21, and Ms. Aselbekian's complaint was 
dated July 23. The complaints were originally fded with the Board on May 23 and June 5, 
respectively. After this office granted an extension, the Board responded to both complaints in a 
letter dated July 2. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered these complaints. Following 
our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Board's response; and the requests for 
further review filed with our office. We also interviewed Ms. Aselbekian by telephone on 
December 5. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body which meets at 
regular intervals to discuss the governance of the Town of Southborough (the "Town").2 On 
April 16, Southborough held its annual Town Meeting to approve the Town Warrant. As part of 
the proposed town budget, there was an item concerning the privatization of the town cemetery. 
The Warrant states, in pertinent part, as follows: "Another initiative is to keep the DPW at a 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 Ms. Aselbekian represented to our office that the Board consisted of three members at the time of the May 13, 
2014 meeting. Prior to 2013, the Board consisted of three members. The 2013 Town Warrant contained a provision 
which reads, in part, that "[t]here shall be a Board of Selectmen consisting of five (5) members." At the time of the 
May 13, 2014 meeting, all five members had been installed. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
virtual level budget for FY 15 by privatizing the Cemetery maintenance. Cemetery 
administrative operations, records retention, burials and grounds maintenance planning will still 
be the responsibility of DPW, however most grounds maintenance would be contracted out under 
this plan. Current staff retirements allow an opportunity to pursue this with the possibility of no 
layoffs." (emphasis added) 
During the April 16 Town Meeting, the Town Warrant was approved in its entirety. 
Approximately one week later, Bridget Gilleney-DeCenzo, a 25-year employee of the town, was 
terminated from her position as Cemetery Supervisor. In response to this termination, Ms. 
Aselbekian circulated three related petitions in town with the aim of restoring Ms. Gilleney-
DeCenzo to her position. 
On May 13, a Board meeting took place during which the topic of Ms. Gilleney-
DeCenzo's termination was discussed. The minutes reflect that Selectman Bill Boland stated 
that it was his understanding that the termination of the Cemetery Supervisor position stemmed 
from a discussion that had taken place the previous October. He stated that the budget was 
predicated on an employee's retirement, which ultimately did not take place. Because that 
employee did not retire when expected, "the lay-off became real." Selectman John Rooney 
stated that, "he was unaware that there was going to be a layoff as a result of the privatization of 
the cemetery." Selectman Daniel Kolenda stated that he wanted to understand the chronology of 
what happened. Finally, Ms. Aselbekian submitted a letter to the Board informing it of the three 
petitions in town. Ultimately, Ms. Gilleney-DeCenzo was reinstated to her position as Cemetery 
Supervisor around July 1. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Taw was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To this end, the law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.T. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.T. c. 
3OA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "any oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. Finally, a "quorum" is defined as a simple 
majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided. Id. 
Here, the complaints allege that two members of the Board conspired with the DPW 
Superintendent and the Town Administrator to eliminate the Cemetery Supervisor position. The 
complaints allege that, because the DPW Superintendent has the right to hire and fire employees 
only with the consent of the Board of Selectmen,3 some deliberation must have taken place 
whereby the Selectmen gave their consent to the termination. As evidence of this, the 
complaints state that Selectmen Boland and Kolenda made comments during the May 13 
meeting which allegedly demonstrate that the Selectmen had knowledge of the proposed lay-off 
prior to Town Meeting. 
3 See Act of Dec. 29, 1991, ch, 477, Mass. Acts of 1991. 
===PAGE 3===
The complainants have not identified any specific instances of deliberation outside of an 
open meeting. The Board has denied that any such deliberation took place. As an initial matter, 
even if two selectmen did discuss the issue prior to Town Meeting, as alleged, this would not 
constitute a violation of the law if it occurred after the Board became a five member body. Since 
a quorum of the body is three members, discussions between fewer than three members are not 
considered deliberation. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, we do not find sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that such a discussion occurred, either before or after the constitution of the body 
changed. Absent evidence to support the complainants' allegations, we credit the Board's 
account of the facts and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-122; OML 
2013-133. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin 
W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ms. Lisa Cappello 
Ms. Desiree Aselbekian 
Southborough Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 