===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 113 
 
 
Adam D. Lamontagne 
Templeton Town Administrator 
160 Patriots Road 
East Templeton, MA 01438 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Lamontagne: 
This office received a complaint from Robert May on January 3, 2021, alleging that the 
Templeton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 4, 2020, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 14, 2020.1 In his complaint, Mr. 
May alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated via email outside of a properly posted 
meeting and that two members of the Board privately deliberated prior to the Board meeting held 
on November 23. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review. Additionally, we reviewed the November 19 and 
November 20 email exchanges between Mr. May and Board Chair Michael Currie, as well as the 
minutes and video recording of the Board meeting held on November 23.2  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s November 23 meeting is available on YouTube, at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q7nQEJbo1U8. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On November 18, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 23 at 
6:30 P.M. The notice included thirteen topics, one of which read “Veterans Parking Spot 
Designation (M.Currie).”   
On November 19, Mr. May emailed four of the five Board members regarding the 
Veterans Parking topic that was listed on the notice. Specifically, he questioned Board Chair 
Michael Currie’s intention to create a parking space for Veterans when he believed the Town 
was not even providing the required number of Handicapped parking spaces. Chair Currie 
replied approximately twenty minutes later but only replied via email to Mr. May. Mr. May, in 
turn, responded to Chair Currie and added three other Board members to his email 
correspondence, causing a quorum to now see Chair Currie’s initial response to Mr. May. 
Concerned about violating the Open Meeting Law, Chair Currie questioned Mr. May’s decision 
to include the other Board members in the email correspondence. On November 20, Mr. May 
rejected Chair Currie’s concerns and again emailed four Board members. Chair Currie did not 
respond to Mr. May’s November 20 email. No other Board member responded to the emails.  
The November 23 meeting was held as planned. During the meeting, the Board discussed 
the history of the Veterans Parking designation in Town, the possibility of expanding the 
designation of Purple Heart parking spots to all veterans, and the email exchange between Mr. 
May and Chair Currie. Chair Currie mentioned that he spoke with Board Member Theresa 
Griffis the day before about the nature and tone of Mr. May’s emails.  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined in part as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail between or a among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its  jurisdiction...” Id. (emphasis added). For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated via email. On November 19 
and November 20, Mr. May sent an email to four Board members, a quorum, to express 
frustration about the Board’s upcoming discussion of a parking spot for Veterans, a topic that 
was listed on the notice for the Board’s November 23 meeting. Chair Currie responded to the 
two emails, but he only responded to Mr. May and did not include any other Board member in 
his responses. Because the communications were between only one Commission member and a 
member of the public, who is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, such communications did 
not constitute deliberation. See OML 2020-71. As such, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, because Mr. May is not a member of the Board, his own 
emails to a quorum of the Board do not constitute deliberation by the Board. See OML 2015-77. 
Further, although a public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, 
to facilitate communication on matters that the Board would otherwise be required to save for 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discussion at an open meeting, we find no indication that occurred here. See OML 2016-172; see 
also Dist. Atty for the Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 
(2009). Any emails sent to a quorum of the Board by Mr. May that included Chair Currie’s 
opinions about the Veterans Parking spot are not considered deliberation because such 
communications were initiated by a non-member and not the Board. Cf. OML 2012-84.   
 
The complaint further alleges that two members, Chair Currie and Ms. Griffis, privately 
discussed the emails from Mr. May outside of an open meeting. Because that communication 
was between two members of the Board, which is not a quorum, it did not constitute deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2018-132; 
OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  
 
CONCLUSION  
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Kerry Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
  
Assisted by Nicholas Papazyan, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Robert May – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
