===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 219 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Ryan Clemens, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
ryan@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Clemens: 
 
This determination addresses four complaints that Susan Delmolino filed alleging that the 
Hadley Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The 
complaints addressed herein are dated May 2, 2023, May 4, 2023, May 10, 2023, and June 15, 
2023.
1  The allegation(s) of each complaint are described and addressed below. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Complaint dated May 2, 2023 
 
The May 2 complaint alleges that during the Board’s meeting held on April 5, the Board 
engaged in discussion of matters that were not listed on the meeting notice.  Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that a resident brought up a concern during the meeting’s public comment 
period, which the Board then proceeded to discuss.  The complaint further alleges that a 
suggestion was made to place discussion on the Open Meeting Law on a future meeting agenda, 
and that the Board proceeded to discuss that topic during the April 5 meeting. 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023, except where indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2015-35.2   
 
A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 
2013-87.  Although a public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the 
notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, we encourage 
public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice until the 
topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by 
the public body.  See OML 2011-23; OML 2013-197.   
 
The Board asserts that the matter raised by a member of the public during the public 
comment portion of the meeting – that an individual who is not a resident of Hadley serves on a 
town committee – and the Board’s explanation in response, were unanticipated.  After reviewing 
a video recording of the Board’s April 5 meeting, it is clear the matter was unanticipated, and it 
was permissible for the Board to briefly address the concern raised.  In addition, near the end of 
the meeting, a Board member – not the Chair – requested that a discussion on the Open Meeting 
Law be placed on the agenda for a future meeting to discuss procedures for ensuring that the 
town’s many volunteer boards and committees are sufficiently informed to comply with their 
obligations.   The Board briefly discussed the benefits of and preferred timing for such a 
discussion.  We find that this discussion, which pertained to setting an agenda for a future 
meeting and furthermore was not a topic reasonably anticipated by the Chair, was permissible.  
Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the May 2 complaint. 
 
Complaint dated May 4, 2023 
 
The May 4 complaint alleges that the Board negotiated the Town Administrator’s 
contract in executive session on a prior date, and then on April 12 voted to approve the contract 
as part of a consent agenda.  The complaint does not identify how these actions allegedly 
violated the Open Meeting Law, but where the complaint lists an alleged violation date of April 
12, we focus on the April 12 meeting during which the Board voted to approve the contract and 
not the prior meeting during which the Board negotiated the contract. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).   
 
One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”).  The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel in executive session, but does not authorize a public body to approve a 
contract in executive session.  See OML 2021-187; OML 2013-91; OML 2011-56; OML 2011-
44.  Therefore, although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in 
executive session, it must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open 
session.  See OML 2011- 28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
voting to approve superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).   
 
We find that the Board appropriately approved the Town Administrator’s contract in 
open session rather than doing so in executive session.  However, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its April 12 meeting.  The notice for 
the Board’s April 12 meeting, which was posted approximately 48 hours in advance on April 10, 
included the topic heading “Consent Agenda.”  The notice that was posted on April 10 did not 
include any additional detail below the heading “Consent Agenda,” such as the specific matters 
to be approved as part of the consent agenda.  During the Board’s April 12 meeting the Board 
approved the consent agenda, which included six separate matters: six warrants, three sets of 
meeting minutes, a block party and no parking sign request, fire department permit fees, the 
contract for Town Administrator Carolyn Brennan, and the parks and recreation director.   
 
The list of topics on a meeting notice must include sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We have 
previously stated that consent agenda topics, which do not require the public body’s discussion, 
but instead are listed as perfunctory administrative tasks, do not need to include details such as 
the specific bills included as part of a warrant to be approved, or the names of specific donors 
whose donations will be accepted, as long as there is description of the nature of the matters 
included as part of the consent agenda.  See OML 2023-17; OML 2019-161; OML 2018-22.  
However, contrary to the Board’s assertion, the topic heading “Consent Agenda,” without more, 
is insufficient, as it does not provide any notice to the public of the nature of matters to be 
approved as part of the consent agenda.  Although it is the Board’s prerogative whether to 
discuss a matter in detail or to vote to approve the matter without first engaging in public 
discussion, see OML 2023-37, the matter nonetheless must be included on the meeting notice 
with sufficient specificity.  We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
approved the Town Administrator’s contract during its April 12 meeting, without including that 
topic on the meeting notice.
3 
 
3 We note that additional detail about the matters included in the consent agenda, including the complete contract, 
were posted online at the time of the meeting.   
===PAGE 4===
 
Complaint dated May 10, 2023 
 
The May 10 complaint alleges that during the Board’s May 3 meeting, the Town 
Administrator referenced documents that were not posted online along with the meeting notice, 
and that the Town Administrator reported on matters that were not specifically listed on the 
meeting notice. 
 
Regarding the documents, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
attach supporting documents to a meeting notice nor that it publicly post a “meeting packet” that 
contains such documents, even if the documents or packet are provided to members of the public 
body.  See OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181.  As for the Town Administrator’s report, after 
reviewing a video of the May 3 meeting, we find that the Town Administrator merely provided 
brief updates on several items, none of which generated discussion by the Board.  We have 
previously explained that when an administrator merely provides updates or information on a 
matter, and the public body does not engage in deliberation, the public body cannot violate the 
Open Meeting Law with regard to the specificity of the meeting notice.  See OML 2019-94; 
OML 2016-76.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the May 10 complaint. 
 
Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged, we 
address the Board’s assertion that the Board’s Chair generally cannot anticipate the nature of the 
Town Administrator’s reports.  We take this opportunity to remind the Board if the chair 
delegates the task of preparing meeting notices to another individual, such as a town 
administrator, the meeting notice must include all topics that the chair as well as all topics that 
the person tasked with creating the meeting notice reasonably anticipate for discussion.  See 
OML 2023-148; OML 2020-152; OML 2015-190.  
 
Complaint dated June 15, 2023 
 
Finally, the June 15 complaint alleges that during the Board’s May 17 meeting, the Board 
discussed two topics that were not included on the posted meeting notice: Route 9 paving 
concerns and MassDOT signage.   
 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the Board did not respond to the June 15 complaint 
as required by the Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, 
a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations: take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the 
Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public body may delegate authority to respond to a 
complaint to an individual such as a town administrator, but the public body must first meet to 
review the complaint.  See OML 2020-164.  Here, we understand the Town Administrator 
responded directly to the complainant with an explanation as to why the actions complained of 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law; however, the Board did not review the complaint during a 
===PAGE 5===
meeting before the Town Administrator responded and the Board did not send a copy of the 
complaint and response to the Attorney General Office.  We remind the Board of its obligations. 
 
The Board, through the Town Administrator, explained that the two topics at issue in the 
complaint—“Town Road’s paving, Route 9 paving and related traffic concerns” and “MassDOT 
signage for safe passage of bicyclists”—were not included on the notice for the Board’s May 17 
meeting, which was posted approximately 48 hours in advance of the meeting on May 15, 
because they were not reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  The Town Administrator explained 
that the Town had recently received resident complaints about the road construction and paving 
concerns in recent days that the Board needed to be informed of, and that the Town had just 
learned of a MassDOT grant opportunity with an imminent application deadline that required 
Board discussion before applying.  After reviewing a video recording of the May 17 meeting, 
and absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s account of events and 
find that these two topics were not reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting.  See OML 2013-174; OML 2011-44.  A public body may discuss a topic not listed 
on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance 
of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing these two topics during its May 17 meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving the Town Administrator’s contract during its April 12 meeting as part of a consent 
agenda, where the topic was not included on the notice for the April 12 meeting.  We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Law, and caution that a finding of similar 
violations in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Susan Delmolino (via email: )  
Carolyn Brennan, Town Administrator (via email: brennanc@hadleyma.gov) 
Hadley Select Board, c/o Jennifer Sanders James (via email: info@hadleyma.org) 
Hadley Town Clerk (via email: clerk@hadleyma.org) 
 
  

===PAGE 6===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 