===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 14, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 55 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alicia A. McNeil, Esq.  
City Solicitor 
Prasanna Rajasekaran, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Malden Legal Department 
 
amcneil@cityofmalden.org 
prajasekaran@cityofmalden.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys McNeil and Rajasekaran: 
 
This office received five complaints (collectively, the “Complaints”) from Bruce 
Friedman, alleging that the Malden City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Complaints were filed as follows: 
 
 Complaint filed  
with the Council: 
Response filed  
by the Council: 
Review requested: 
“January 20 complaint” January 20, 2026 February 18, 2026 February 18, 2026 
“February 5 complaint” February 5, 2026 February 24, 2026 March 24, 2026 
“February 19 complaint” February 19, 2026 March 10, 2026 March 10, 2026 
“March 4 complaint” March 4, 2026 March 24, 2026 March 24, 2026 
“March 12 complaint” March 12, 2026 April 1, 2026 April 1, 2026 
 
The January 20 Complaint alleges that the Council (1) held a non-emergent meeting that 
day without posting 48 hours’ notice; and (2) met in executive session without a proper purpose.  
The February 5, February 19, March 4 and March 12 Complaints allege that the Council 
improperly withheld or redacted minutes of executive sessions in response to requests sent by the 
complainant.  Additionally, the March 12 Complaint alleges that the Council did not review 
executive session minutes for release as required by the Open Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
met on January 20 without posting notice 48 hours in advance of the meeting and when it failed 
to review executive session minutes at reasonable intervals. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Complaints, the Council’s responses, and the requests for further review.  We also 
reviewed the docket and filings in the matter of Peter Tufts, et al. v. City of Malden, et al., 
Middlesex Superior Court, C.A. no. 2181CV01248 (the “Tufts Construction Litigation”).  We 
reviewed the notice and redacted executive session minutes of a meeting the Council held on 
January 20, 2026.  Finally, we communicated with you via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Complaints arise out of requests for minutes of 
executive sessions which were convened to discuss the Tufts Construction Litigation.
1  The Tufts 
Construction Litigation was initiated in Middlesex Superior Court on June 4, 2021.  Trial was 
scheduled to commence on Tuesday, January 20, 2026.2  On the first day of trial, the parties 
appeared in court and reported the case settled.  At 7:00 p.m. that evening, the Council met in 
executive session to discuss the Tufts Construction Litigation.   
 
Notice of the January 20 meeting was posted on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Monday, 
January 19.  The only topic of substance on the notice was a vote “whether to go into Executive 
Session with legal counsel for the City regarding the matter of Tufts Construction, Inc. v. The 
City of Malden, Middlesex Superior Court Docket #2181CV01248, for the purpose of 
Exemption Three Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 30A Section 21(a)(3) for an update on 
recent developments regarding a tentative resolution to the civil action, where such discussion in 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigation position of the City, if so declared 
by the chair.”   
 
During the January 20 executive session, counsel for the City provided a history of 
settlement discussions in the Tufts Construction Litigation, including an unsuccessful mediation 
on October 14, 2025.
3  Counsel also explained that the parties appeared in court on Friday, 
January 16, for a hearing on pretrial motions, after which the plaintiffs reduced their demand.  
Although the court did not rule on the motions from the bench on January 16, counsel for the 
City opined that comments made by the presiding judge during arguments likely prompted the 
plaintiffs to reconsider their settlement position, resulting in the reduced demand.  Settlement 
negotiations continued through the long weekend of January 17-19, leading to the agreement that 
was presented to the court on the first day of trial.  Counsel outlined for the Council the terms of 
the tentative settlement agreement.  The Council discussed the strengths and weaknesses of the 
case and advisability of the settlement.  When asked what was being requested of the Council 
that night, counsel responded that the purpose of the meeting was (in the words of the minutes) 
“to notify the Council of the current status and make them aware they will be asked to authorize 
 
1 The Council also discussed another case during one of the executive sessions, Benevolent Botanicals & 926 
Eastern Avenue v. City of Malden, Massachusetts Land Court, C.A. no. 22 MISC 000076.  However, the Complaints 
focus on the Tufts Construction Litigation. 
2 Hereinafter, all dates refer to 2026 unless stated otherwise. 
3 The summary is drawn from the redacted minutes of the executive session, which have been released to the public.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the appropriations for the settlement payouts.”4  It was the Mayor, as the Chief Executive 
Officer, who had the authority to approve the settlement terms.  The Council adjourned the 
meeting at 8:00 p.m.   
 
Thirty minutes later, at 8:30 p.m. on January 20, the complainant sent the following 
request by email to Malden City Clerk Carol Ann Desiderio and Ward 3 City Councillor and 
Council President Amanda Linehan: 
 
Under the Massachusetts Open Meeting Law (M.G.L. c. 30A, § 22), and under the 
Massachusetts Public Records Law (M.G.L. c. 66 §§ 10 -10A) OpenCommonwealth.org 
is hereby formally requesting ANY teams/zoom or other audio and visual recordings of 
the meeting(s) and the draft and final minutes of the meeting(s), any notes, recordings 
or other materials used in the preparation of such minutes and all documents and 
exhibits used at the sessions, for the following meetings and dates: 
 
Date     Public Body/Meeting    Meeting Minutes 
Requested 
 
January 20, 2026         City of Malden City Council Meeting      Regular and Executive 
Sessions 
 
For committee and executive sessions; All meeting notices, video of, transcripts from, 
and meeting minutes from the meetings themselves and all documents and other exhibits, 
photographs, recordings or maps, and votes taken by and/or used by the body any other 
part of the official record of the session(s). For any redactions, please cite the specific 
ongoing reason for continued redactions. For unsigned minutes, please state the reason 
for the minutes being unsigned and unattested to. 
 
On January 27, Clerk Desiderio responded to the request for minutes of January 20.  She 
provided a link to the video recording of the open session and attached a draft of the open session 
minutes.  She expected that the open session minutes would be approved at that night’s meeting 
and would thereafter be posted on the website.  She acknowledged that the Council discussed the 
Tufts Construction Litigation during the January 20 executive session and that the parties had 
reached a tentative settlement but explained that “this case has not yet been completely resolved 
and closed with the court, therefore the [executive session] minutes have not been released for 
public review.”    
 
The Council held a duly noticed meeting on January 27.  In open session, the Council 
discussed a proposed order to appropriate $300,000 from a water and sewer account to help fund 
the settlement of the Tufts Construction Litigation.  Following discussion, including an 
explanation by legal counsel about the terms of the settlement and the risk of delay, the Council 
voted 8-2 in favor of adopting the order.  The Council next met on February 3.  In executive 
session, the Council voted to “approve and release the January 20, 2026 minutes as redacted, due 
to the determination that unredacted minutes would defeat the lawful purpose of M.G.L. c. 30A, 
 
4 As explained below, the Council discussed and voted to appropriate settlement  funds at its January 27 open 
session. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
s. 22(f), upon the court’s acceptance of the settlement agreement between Tufts Construction and 
City of Malden.”  Two days later, on February 5, Clerk Desiderio advised the complainant of the 
Council’s February 3 vote to release the redacted minutes upon the court’s acceptance of the 
settlement.  She anticipated that the court would accept the settlement agreement on or about 
February 19, at which time the minutes would be available on the City’s website. 
 
On February 9, the complainant sent a request to Clerk Desiderio and Councillor Linehan 
pursuant to the Open Meeting Law and the Public Records Law, seeking records of the February 
3 meeting.  The categories of documents and wording of the request were identical to the request 
he sent on January 20.  Clerk Desiderio responded to the February 9 request on February 11, 
explaining that the Council would review the executive session minutes on February 17, in 
response to the request.  Clerk Desiderio also stated that draft minutes from the regular council 
session of February 3 were not yet complete and that they would be posted for council review on 
February 24, “after which time, they will be posted on www.cityofmalden.org/agendacenter.”   
 
On the morning of February 19, Clerk Desiderio sent a second email in response to the 
February 9 request.  She stated that the Council voted in executive session on February 17 to 
release the minutes of the February 3 executive session “whole and unredacted upon the court’s 
acceptance of the proposed settlement agreement between Tufts Construction and the City of 
Malden.”  Clerk Desiderio provided the link to the municipal website where the released minutes 
would be available upon court approval of the agreement.  That evening, the complainant sent 
yet another request to Clerk Desiderio and Councillor Linehan pursuant to the Open Meeting 
Law and the Public Records Law, this time seeking records relative to meetings of February 10 
and February 17.  Again, the categories of documents and wording of the request were identical 
to the requests sent on January 20 and February 9. 
 
On February 28, Clerk Desiderio acknowledged receipt of the February 19 request.  She 
stated that “regular session” minutes were available on the City’s website.  She stated that 
minutes of the executive sessions held on February 10 and 17 would be “released in accordance 
with the completion of post-judgment actions on each of the respective court cases which were 
discussed during these sessions.”  She provided the link on the City’s website where the minutes 
would be available “[o]nce the post-judgement actions are completed.”  On March 3, the 
complainant responded to Clerk Desiderio, complaining that the minutes were not provided or 
released and that the link did not function.  Clerk Desiderio disputed that the link was not 
functioning properly but “attached PDFs of the regular session minutes to save you the trouble of 
retrieving them yourself.” 
 
Around the time of the exchanges between the complainant and Clerk Desiderio, the 
parties to the Tufts Construction Litigation worked to finalize the settlement that had been 
reported to the court on the first day of trial.  We briefly summarize the procedural history of the 
Tufts Construction Litigation, as it relates to the settlement, to the extent that it is relevant to the 
allegations of the Complaints.  On January 21, the day after the parties reported the case settled, 
the court entered a nisi order, whereby the parties were to file an agreement for judgment or a 
stipulation of dismissal no later than February 19.  On February 19, upon joint motion of the 
parties, the nisi period was extended to March 2.  In support of the joint motion, the parties stated 
that they “require[d] additional time to determine whether a motion may be required to address 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
matters relative to the resolution of this action.”  When the parties failed to file an agreement for 
judgment or a stipulation of dismissal by the nisi date as extended, the Court dismissed the 
complaint without prejudice on March 10.
5  On March 12, the Council released the minutes of 
executive sessions in which the Tufts Construction Litigation was discussed, including but not 
limited to the minutes of September 20, 2025, January 20, February 3, February 10, and February 
17.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Council violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice less than 48 hours 
prior to the January 20 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
“In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to the 
meeting.”  Id.  The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected 
occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 
29.02.  The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body.  See 
OML 2025-201; OML 2020-123.6   
 
The settlement reached over the weekend prior to the January 20 meeting was a sudden 
unexpected occurrence.  On Friday, January 16, the plaintiffs drastically dropped their demand, 
likely as a result of the court proceedings that day, thereby reviving negotiations that had stalled 
and eventually leading to a settlement agreement over the weekend. 
 
  On Saturday, January 17, the City Clerk was told of the pending settlement discussions.  
Notice was posted on Monday, January 19, for a meeting to be held the next day.  While the 
settlement may have been unexpected, there was no need for immediate action by the Council.  
Indeed, when asked what was required of the Council on the evening of January 20, counsel 
advised that the meeting was a status update and that at some point in the future, the Council 
would be asked to appropriate funds to fund the settlement.  Because the circumstances did not 
require immediate action by the Council, there existed no emergency.  Therefore, the Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it met less than 48 hours after posting notice.  Cf. OML 
2020-47 (specifics of settlement offer were unanticipated and response was required in 
anticipation of hearing scheduled for the next day).   
 
In finding a violation, we do not discount counsel’s obligation to keep a client apprised of 
late breaking settlement negotiations.  However, where no action was required of the Council, 
the Council was not relieved of its obligation under the Open Meeting Law to post notice of its 
 
5 The parties submitted a stipulation of dismissal with prejudice on March 16 but it was not accepted for filing due to 
the failure to comply with the nisi order.  The parties were told that the dismissal without prejudice must be vacated 
before they could file a stipulation of dismissal with prejudice.  The Court docket does not reflect any filings since 
March 16. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
meeting 48 hours in advance; a non-emergency meeting could have been scheduled for the 
earliest possible date.  In the meantime, non-members with knowledge of the settlement terms, 
e.g., counsel or the Mayor, could have disseminated to members of the Council as much 
information about the settlement as they felt appropriate. 
 
II. The Council met in executive session under a proper purpose on January 20. 
 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for one or more of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One permissible purpose for 
convening in executive session is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  
 
The complainant alleges that the Council improperly relied on Purpose 3 to enter 
executive session.  The complainant appears to argue that the Council could not rely on Purpose 
3 on January 20 because the parties to the Tufts Construction Litigation had already reached a 
settlement over the prior weekend; therefore, there was no longer a litigation position to protect.  
The settlement was known to the Council and was a matter of public record, having been 
announced earlier in the day in open court. 
 
We find that the Council had grounds to enter executive session under Purpose 3.  
Although the parties had reached agreement on the material terms of the settlement, the 
settlement still needed to be finalized.  Indeed, the transcript of the proceedings in court on 
January 20 reflect hesitancy to declare the matter settled.  When the Court asked whether the 
settlement resolves all claims, counsel for the plaintiffs initially responded, “That’s the intent.”  
See OML 2019-16 (“Due to the provisional nature of the settlement agreement, we agree that the 
Board still had a litigating position to protect . . .”).  Thirty days later, when the parties sought an 
extension of the nisi order, they advised that they might need the Court to resolve outstanding 
issues surrounding the settlement.  During all times relevant to the Complaints, the litigation 
could have been restored to the docket as the case was not dismissed with prejudice.  When the 
Council met in executive session on January 20, it could rely on Purpose 3 to discuss the Tufts 
Construction Litigation.   
 
III. The Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it withheld executive 
session minutes requested by the complainant. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Executive session 
minutes “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety under subclause (a) of 
[the Public Records Law], as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Specifically, with respect to executive sessions 
held under Purpose 3, “the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits used at 
the session may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and until such 
time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining position is no longer jeopardized by such 
disclosure.”  Id.  Once a litigating, negotiating, or bargaining position would no longer be 
jeopardized by disclosure, the minutes and materials of the executive session “shall be disclosed 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under [the Public Records 
Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion thereof, from disclosure.”  Id.  The burden 
of justifying continued nondisclosure lies with the public body.  See Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional Sch. Comm., 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
 
The complainant alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by withholding 
minutes of the executive sessions held on January 20, February 3, February 10 and February 17 
after the Tufts Construction Litigation settled.  The complainant notes that the Council discussed 
the settlement in open session on January 27. 
 
As an initial matter, we note that the brief discussion of the settlement during an open 
meeting held on January 27 does not necessitate a finding that the release of executive session 
minutes would not jeopardize the Council’s litigation position, as the executive session minutes 
included information that was not revealed during the January 27 open session.  Additionally, as 
noted in Section II above, the parties reported the matter settled on January 20 but details of the 
settlement were resolved over the course of the weeks that followed.  On March 10, the case was 
dismissed without prejudice.  On March 12, the Council released the minutes of executive 
sessions in which the Tufts Construction Litigation was discussed.  We accept the Council’s 
explanation that release of the subject Purpose 3 executive session minutes prior to dismissal of 
the Tufts Construction Litigation would have jeopardized the City of Malden’s litigation 
position.  The Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it withheld the executive 
session minutes until dismissal of the Tufts Construction Litigation.
7 
 
IV. The Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to review executive 
session minutes at reasonable intervals. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body or its chair or designee, at reasonable 
intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of 
those minutes is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although “reasonable interval” is not 
defined by the Law, our office has found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be 
appropriate.  See OML 2025-206; OML 2020-101; OML 2017-104.   
 
The March 12 Complaint alleges that the Council did not review at regular intervals 
minutes of the executive sessions that were convened to discuss the Tufts Construction Litigation 
and another pending lawsuit, Benevolent Botanicals & 926 Eastern Avenue v. City of Malden, 
Massachusetts Land Court, C.A. no. 22 MISC 000076.  The minutes of some of these executive 
 
7 Not all the executive session minutes referenced in the Complaints were available on the Council’s website.  To 
the extent that the complainant alleges that the Council improperly redacted minutes under attorney- client privilege, 
we decline to review that allegation.  Once an executive session purpose has been served, a public body may 
continue to withhold the minutes, or any portion thereof, under the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the 
exemptions to the Public Records Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  However, the Open Meeting Law does not authorize 
the Attorney General to determine whether the Council’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege is justified.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e); OML 2020-157; OML 2016-129; OML 2013-7. Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim 
that minutes are exempt from disclosure pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’ s Records 
Division.  See, e.g., OML 2016-57; OML 2020-157. 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
sessions were not reviewed for a year or more.  In failing to review those minutes at reasonable 
intervals, the Council violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The Council maintains that because the minutes of a Purpose 3 executive session may be 
withheld from disclosure until such time as the public body’s litigating position is no longer 
jeopardized by such disclosure, and because it “knew it could not disclose minutes from the 
Benevolent and Tufts cases so long as litigation was ongoing, any review of these minutes before 
the end of litigation would have been purely formalistic and unnecessary.”  The minutes 
referenced in the March 12 Complaint date back to October, 2022.  Even if members of the 
Council could remember that they discussed pending litigation on a specific date over three years 
earlier, the Council was still required to complete the required review.  In failing to do so, the 
Council violated the Open Meeting Law.
8 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it met on January 20 less than 48 hours after posting notice, and when it failed to review 
executive session minutes at reasonable intervals.  We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law.  940 CMR 29.02. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Bruce Friedman (via email: ) 
 
8 The process need not consume any more time than necessary if upon a quick review, the Council is reminded that 
the minutes concern pending litigation.  The Open Meeting Law does not even require that a public body review 
executive session minutes for release in a noticed meeting.  See OML 2023-242.  Moreover, a public body may 
designate a non-member to review the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  See also OML 2020-81 (city solicitor and 
city clerk designated to review executive session minutes); OML 2013-99 (chair of Zoning Board of Appeals 
reviewed minutes).  The Council is reminded that the outcome of that review must be “announced at the body's next 
meeting and such announcement shall be included in the minutes of that meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  
 

===PAGE 9===
9 
 
 Malden City Council (via email: citycouncil@cityofmalden.org) 
Carol Ann Desiderio, City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org) 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 