===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 192 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Naomi R. Stonberg, Esq. 
Brody Hardoon Perkins & Kesten, LLP  
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Stonberg: 
 
This office received a complaint from David Murray, filed on behalf of the Masconomet 
Teachers Association (the “Association”), on August 24, 2021,1 alleging that the Masconomet 
Regional District School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about July 8, and 
you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 19. The complaint alleges that 
several members of the Association were denied access to the Committee’s June 9 meeting 
which was held remotely via Zoom.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We do not find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and a spreadsheet showing a list of 
attendees of the June 9 meeting. Additionally, we communicated with Counsel for the 
Committee2 and with the Complainant via email.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 However, at 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the time of the June 9 meeting Governor Baker’s March 12 executive order temporarily 
suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law was in effect. See Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive 
Order”). The Executive Order allowed public bodies to provide public access to their meetings 
via adequate, alternative means, such as via Zoom, rather than physical in-person access, 
provided that the alternative means allowed the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body in real time. See Executive Order at ¶ 1; see also Attorney General’s Updated 
Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID19 State of Emergency.4 In order for a 
meeting to be truly open to the public the meeting venue, whether a physical location or a remote 
method of access, must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 
2021-76; OML 2018-51; OML 2017-172; OML 2014-118.  
 
The complaint alleges that during the Committee’s June 9 meeting “[s]everal 
Masconomet Teacher Association members were locked out of the meeting. The meeting was 
conducted through a Zoom platform and the members were denied access to the meeting.” In 
response to the complaint, the Masconomet Regional School District’s Information Technology 
Department investigated whether anyone had been denied access to the June 9 meeting. In its 
response, the Committee explains that 151 individuals were able to join the June 9 meeting via 
Zoom. The Committee explains that some individuals logged into the meeting for approximately 
one minute but were able to log in again for longer periods of time. The Committee also explains 
that they had the capacity to have up to 300 attendees at the June 9 meeting and that they did not 
reach this limit. Finally, the Committee explains that the Information Technology Department 
could not find any evidence that any individual requested to join the June 9 meeting via Zoom 
and was denied access. 
 
Included with the request for further review was a screenshot showing a screen which 
included the following language: 
 
Leave Meeting  
This meeting has been locked by the host  
OK 
 
The screenshot provided does not include any information that would allow our office to confirm 
the meeting to which it pertains. Furthermore, the time identified in the screenshot is 8:25, 
though there is no indication of a.m. or p.m. We also note that 8:25 p.m. on June 9 is around the 
time the Committee entered executive session, at which time it would be permissible to close the 
meeting to the public. 
 
On October 29 our office contacted the Complainant requesting further information 
regarding who, or how many individuals, were unable to access the June 9 meeting and the 
circumstances surrounding their inability to access the meeting. The Complainant responded 
with a partial list of individuals who allege they were denied access to the meeting, but no 
additional information regarding the circumstances surrounding their inability to access the 
 
4 The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, 
updated June 16, 2020, is available here: https://www mass.gov/service-details/updated-guidance-on-
holdingmeetings-during-the-covid-19-state-of-emergency. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting. On November 12 our office contacted the Complainant again requesting further 
information regarding the circumstances surrounding the alleged denial of access to the 
Committee’s June 9 meeting. To date, we have not received a response to this request. We find 
insufficient evidence to conclude that any individual was denied access to the Committee’s June 
9 open session meeting while the meeting was ongoing and we therefore do not find a violation 
of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by denying the public access to its June 9 meeting. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the 
Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Zillie Theodorou Bhuju, Chair of the Masconomet Regional District School Committee 
(via e-mail:  
David Murray (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
