===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
August 29, 2018 
OML 2018-124 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated June 22, alleging that the 
Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 1, and the Board responded by 
letter dated May 24. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board posted an 
insufficiently detailed meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Board meeting held on May 1. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on 
July 18.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 1. 
The notice listed, among other topics, the following items: 
Public Hearins—Off Premise Beer & Wine License Transfer 
G.A.R. Swansea Liquors, d/b/a Big "D's" Vintage Barn— 580 G.A.R. Hwy— 
Transferred from Nhan Van Le to Truong Duong 
One Day Liquor License Request—May 24, 2018 
YMCA—271 Sharps Lot Road—Michael Mahoney 
2nd Annual Wine Tasting Fundraiser 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 For the sake of clarity, wc refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Discussion About Seasonal Alcohol License 
Stoney Creek Farm—Erin Babbit 
Acknowledge Receipt of and Forward to Planning Board 
Seeking Zoning Change, Citizen Petition from Mr. William Chadwick, Mammoth Rock 
Farm LLC—Marijuana Grow Facility 
Special Town Meeting Articles 
Review 
Approve 
Town Administrator's Report 
The notice did not list which town meeting articles the Board would discuss, and the 
notice did not list what the town administrator's report would contain. The Board held the May 
1 meeting as scheduled. During the discussion of the liquor license transfer, the Board voted to 
authorize the transfer of management and to approve a stock transfer. During the time set aside 
for discussion of town meeting articles, the Board chair asked for an update from the town 
administrator, who said that he had none. During the time set aside for the town administrator's 
report, the town administrator reported on the activities of various town departments. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to 
list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.3 
The complaint alleges that the meeting notice at issue was insufficiently detailed. With 
respect to the licensing issues, the complaint contends that the meeting notice was insufficiently 
detailed insofar as: (i) the description of the liquor license transfer did not also indicate that the 
Board would vote on transfers of ownership and stock, (ii) the description of the one-day license 
did not specify whether it was for full liquor or beer and wine, and (iii) the description of the 
seasonal alcohol license also lacked sufficient specificity.4 We disagree. Generally, a meeting 
notice must include a description of each license to be discussed. See OML 2016-90. The notice 
here lists the matters to be discussed, and it provides additional identifying information about 
each sufficient to allow a member of the public to determine what topics the Board would be 
discussing. In the case of the liquor license transfer, the Board's votes on transfers of ownership 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www. mass, go v/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The complaint makes reference to "Item 4," which would be the zoning change. However, based on the content of 
the complaint, the Board believed the allegation to refer to the third item on the agenda, the seasonal alcohol license. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and stock were necessary components of the transfer of the liquor license, and we conclude that 
the Board did not need to list out each constituent motion necessary for the license transfer. 
The complaint also contends that the Board should have listed specific anticipated topics 
under the sections designated for the town meeting articles review and town administrator's 
report. The Board's legal counsel stated to our office that the Board chair did not anticipate 
specific topics during these portions of the meeting. Rather, it was the Board's practice to hear 
from the town administrator during that time, but the town administrator did not typically inform 
the chair in advance of what topics would be raised. We credit this description of the Board's 
typical practice. See OML 2017-60 (absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a 
public body's version of the facts). There may be circumstances where a chair is required to 
investigate anticipated topics so that more robust detail may be included on the meeting notice. 
See, e.g. OML 2017-148 (notice should include the name of license applicants). However, the 
present situation is not such a circumstance. We therefore conclude that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2013-25 (meeting notice 
sufficiently detailed where the chair did not anticipate items that arose during the meeting). 
However, we note that the best practice is for a chair to inquire, from public body members or 
anyone expected to speak during a meeting, about specific topics to be discussed so that they 
may be listed on the meeting notice. This allows the body to fully inform the public of the 
discussions that will take place during the meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 