===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 10, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 79 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mina S. Makarious, Esq.  
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
mmakarious@andersonkreiger.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Makarious: 
 
This office received two complaints on September 6, 2022,
1 from Attorney David Click 
on behalf of his client Grafton & Upton Railroad Company (the “Complainant”) alleging that the 
Hopedale Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 
The first complaint was filed with the Board on June 21, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated July 14. The second complaint was filed with the Board on July 6, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 28. We understand the complaints to 
allege that the Board 1) posted insufficiently specific notices for its May 23 and June 21 
meetings; and 2) improperly met in executive session on June 21.
3  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed these matters. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting insufficiently specific 
notices for its meetings held on May 23 and June 21. We find that the Board did not otherwise 
violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaints were originally filed with the Board by Attorney Donald Keavany, Jr.  
3 We decline to review allegations related to whether the Board properly voted to invite Anderson & Kreiger LLP  to 
speak with the Board, whether the Board voted to retain Anderson & Kreiger LLP, or whether Anderson & Kreiger 
LLP sent a letter to the Board suggesting the firm had been retained. The Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 25. Where these allegations, even if true, 
would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 7-23-18 
(Norwell Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners); 
OML Declination 5-21-12 (Hampden-Wilbraham Regional School Committee).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Law complaints; the Board’s responses; the requests for further review; notices for the Board’s 
May 23 and June 21 meetings, video recordings of the Board’s open session meetings held on 
May 23 and June 21, and executive session minutes for the Board’s June 21 meeting.4 
 
These complaints relate to a dispute between the Town, a group of residents, and the 
Complainant over property located at 364 West Street in Hopedale. There is a lengthy legal 
history regarding this dispute with lawsuits having been filed in Superior Court, the Land Court, 
and United States District Court, as well as a petition to the Surface Transportation Board.5  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On May 16 the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on May 23. Relevant here, the notice included the following topics: “Update re: GU RR 
Request for Support of IRAP Grant” and “Update re: 364 West Street.”  
 
During the May 23 meeting, when the Board reached the notice topic “Update re: GU RR 
Request for Support of IRAP Grant,” the Chair, Glenda Hazard, began by noting that the purpose 
for the discussion was to update a new Board member, Bernard Stock, regarding a letter the 
Board had previously voted to sign expressing its support of the Complainant’s Industrial Rail 
Access Program (“IRAP”) grant application and to discuss the status of that letter. The 
discussion lasted for approximately an hour and ten minutes and covered topics ranging from 
past dealings with the Complainant, questions the Chair had about the grant application, 
concerns Member Stock had about the Board’s earlier vote to support the grant application, 
litigation matters, and the property at 364 West Street. The discussion included Board members 
and members of the public, including Michael Milanoski—one of the trustees of the property at 
364 West Street and the President of the Complainant—who spoke at length. After the lengthy 
and sometimes contentious discussion, Member Stock moved that the Board communicate to the 
Massachusetts Department of Transportation that the Board no longer supported the 
Complainant’s IRAP grant application. Chair Hazard seconded the motion. Member Brian Keyes 
stated that the prior Board voted to support the IRAP grant application, that the letter had already 
been sent, and that he saw no reason to object to the application now. Ultimately, Member 
Stock’s motion passed two to one.  
 
Next, Member Stock stated that he wanted to discuss a court decision issued on May 5 
which related to an earlier settlement agreement between the Town and the Complainant. 
Member Stock moved to seek separate counsel to advise the Board about the settlement 
agreement and prior litigation, and to direct the Board as to how to move forward. Member Stock 
suggested the law firm Anderson & Kreiger. After some discussion, the Board voted 
unanimously to invite Anderson & Kreiger to talk to the Board about the settlement agreement 
and potential next steps. 
 
 
4 A video recording of the Board’s May 23 meeting may be found at 
https://townhallstreams.com/stream.php?location_id=56&id=45588. A video recording of the Board’s June 21 
meeting may be found at https://townhallstreams.com/stream.php?location_id=56&id=46169.    
5 For further background see Reilly v. Hopedale, Mass. App. Ct., No. 22-P-314, slip op. (Mar. 7, 2023). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
On June 16 the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 21. The notice 
included the following executive session topics: 
 
Motion: To move into Executive Session, pursuant to M.G.L. c.30A, § 21(a) for 
purpose # (3) (To discuss strategy with respect to litigation that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the litigation position of the public body if the 
chair so declares and purpose #(6) (To consider the acquisition of real property if 
the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body); Roll Call Vote. Purpose: Litigation 
strategy re: Town v. Jon Delli Priscoli, Trustee of the One Hundred Forty Realty 
Trust, et als, and other related matters. Attorneys Mina Makarious and David 
Mackey present. 
 
The notice for the June 21 meeting also included one substantive open session topic—“Call for 
Special Town Meeting and Sign Warrant.” 
 
The Board met on June 21. During the announcement before entering executive session, 
Chair Hazard announced that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 3 “to 
discuss strategy with respect to the Delli Priscoli litigation and other related litigation in the 
Superior Court, Land Court, Appeals Court, and in front of the DPU. . . .” Chair Hazard also 
stated that the Board would convene in executive session under Purpose 6 to “consider the 
acquisition of real property, namely at 364 West Street. . . .” Thereafter the Board held a brief 
discussion regarding the fact that the motion to enter executive session differed from the 
language included on the notice. The Board discussed that the decision to change the motion was 
made in consultation with Town Counsel and was intended to address concerns raised about the 
meeting notice and cure any problems therewith.  
  
The executive session minutes have not yet been released to the public; therefore, we 
only summarize their content here. During the June 21 meeting, the Board discussed with 
counsel strategy with respect to ongoing litigation matters, taking property at 364 West Street by 
eminent domain, and strategy with respect to potential litigation related to such taking.   
 
After adjourning the executive session, the Board reconvened in open session. Chair 
Hazard explained that the Board had discussed in executive session the possibility of calling a 
Special Town Meeting to address one article regarding whether the Town would authorize an 
eminent domain taking of 130 acres on West Street. Member Stock moved to open a warrant for 
July 11 at 7:00 p.m. with the warrant consisting of one article “specific to the eminent domain 
proceeding with the Grafton and Upton Railroad,” and that the Board close the warrant. Member 
Keyes seconded. After some discussion, the Board voted unanimously in support of the motion.  
 
On July 11 a Special Town Meeting was held to consider a single warrant article that 
would authorize the Board “to acquire, by purchase, eminent domain, or otherwise, certain 
property, containing up to 130.18 acres, more or less, located at 364 West Street . . . .” The 
warrant article passed. 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and, unless lawfully convened in executive session, open to members 
of the public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a closed, executive 
session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
One such purpose is to “discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public 
body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). Purpose 3 offers the 
narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not 
sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 
(1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 
2012-5. Another purpose is “[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property 
if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating 
position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  
 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of topics that the chair 
rea
sonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notice topics must be listed with 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 
940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. Our office discourages the use of abbreviations 
or acronyms that are not widely understood by members of the public. See OML 2016-5 (finding 
that “PILOT” is not a widely understood acronym); cf. OML 2015-172 (concluding that “FAA” 
is a widely understood acronym). When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is 
clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. Rather, we 
review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently 
detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2014-155; OML 2021-116; 
OML 2022-125. 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announce
ment during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the 
only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”); OML 
2020-146. When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the litigation matter that will be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful 
purpose for secrecy. See OML 2019-163. Likewise, when convening in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 6, a public body must identify the property that will be discussed, if doing so 
will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. Id. 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
I. We Fin d that the May 23 Meeting Notice Was Insufficiently Specific.  
 
The Complainant alleges that the notice topics “Update re: GU RR Request for Support 
of 
IRAP Grant” and “Update re: 364 West Street” were insufficiently specific. We agree, in 
general. We find that the use of the acronyms “GU RR” and “IRAP” rendered the topic “Update 
re: GU RR Request for Support of IRAP Grant” insufficient to inform members of the public 
unfamiliar with this matter of the anticipated nature of the discussion. However, we find that the 
topic was otherwise sufficiently descriptive of the anticipated topic, which was further discussion 
by the Board regarding its prior action taken on the Complainant’s request that the Board issue a 
letter in support of the Complainant’s Industrial Rail Access Program grant application. Next, we 
find the topic “Update re: 364 West Street” insufficient where it did not include any information 
whatsoever regarding the nature of the discussion to be held about the listed property. Although 
we acknowledge that the Board had discussed related matters at several prior meetings and these 
two topics may have been meaningful to the Board and members of the public who regularly 
follow the Board’s business, they were insufficient to inform members of the public not already 
familiar with these matters of the nature of the anticipated discussions. See OML 2022-4; OML 
2020-132; OML 2020-164; OML 2013-55. Finally, we note that the Complainant was clearly 
aware that the Board would discuss the Complainant’s property and the Board’s support of the 
Complainant’s IRAP grant application, as evidenced by the attendance of the Complainant’s 
president at the May 23 meeting, and further that the Complainant surely understood the 
meaning of the acronyms “GU RR” and “IRAP.”  
 
II. We Fin
 d that the June 21 Executive Session Was Held for a Proper Purpose.  
 
The Complainant alleges t hat the Board improperly met in executive session where the 
Town had already entered into a stipulation to dismiss the litigation matter listed on the notice 
and therefore, the Complainant asserts, no longer had a litigating position. The Complainant 
further alleges that the executive session was improper with respect to discussions under Purpose 
6 because “there is no negotiating involved in an eminent domain taking.” Based on our in 
camera review of the Board’s executive session minutes, and notwithstanding the stipulation of 
dismissal, we find that the entire discussion in executive session on June 21 related to litigation 
strategy with respect to both pending litigation and potential litigation that was demonstrably 
likely. Therefore, we find that the Board properly met in executive session on June 21. 
Additionally, we are not persuaded by the Complainant’s blanket assertion that discussions of 
eminent domain are not appropriate for executive session under Purpose 6. See OML 2020-157; 
OML 2018-7. However, because we find that the June 21 discussions related to litigation 
strategy, we need not reach this issue.  
 
III. We Fin
 d that the Notice for the June 21 Meeting Was Sufficiently Specific with 
Respect to the Executive Session Topic and Insufficiently Specific with Respect to 
the Open Session Topic.  
 
The Complainant alleges that the notice for the Board’s June 21 meeting was insufficient 
where it did not identify the property or litigation matter to be discussed in executive session and 
did not provide any detail regarding the Special Town Meeting warrant.   
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
As explained above, when convening in executive session, a public body must describe 
the purpose for the executive session in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for the executive session. In general, this means that public bodies must identify the 
litigation matters to be discussed under Purpose 3 and the property to be discussed under Purpose 
6, unless doing so would compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. While we generally defer 
to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the 
purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for that claim if challenged. 
 
The June 21 notice identified the litigation matter to be discussed in executive session as 
“Town v. Jon Delli Priscoli, Trustee of the One Hundred Forty Realty Trust, et als.” During the 
June 21 executive session, the Board briefly discussed other closely-related litigation matters. 
Generally, a public body should identify all litigation matters to be discussed in executive 
session; however, where the litigation matters discussed on June 21 were closely related to each 
other, we find the topic was sufficient as posted.  
 
We now turn to the Purpose 6 executive session notice topic and the open session notice 
topic
. Because the Board identified the property to be discussed in executive session in its 
announcement prior to convening in executive session, it should have also identified the property 
on the meeting notice and should have included additional detail about the warrant article to be 
discussed in open session. However, in this instance because the Board’s entire executive session 
discussion properly fell under Purpose 3 such that the Board could have included the Purpose 3 
notice topic alone, and because the Purpose 3 notice topic was sufficient, we find no violation 
with respect to notice of the Board’s June 21 executive session. See OML 2020-76 (“When a 
discussion may properly be held under multiple executive session purposes, the public body may 
choose which executive session purpose(s) to cite.”). We do, however, find a violation with 
respect to the open session topic where it did not include any detail regarding the warrant article 
to be discussed.   
 
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the Complainant urges, 
inte
ntional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Board against the violation found here, nor 
do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we 
decline to find that the violation was intentional.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficiently specific notices for its meetings held on May 23 and June 21. We find that 
the Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Because the Complainant understood that its 
property and the Board’s support of its IRAP grant application would be discussed during the 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
May 23 meeting, and because, on July 11, Special Town Meeting voted in favor of the warrant 
discussed during the June 21 meeting, we do not order additional remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Glenda Hazard, Chair, Hopedale Select Board (via email: ghazard@hopedale-ma.gov) 
Brian W. Riley, Esq., KP Law (via email: briley@k-plaw.com) 
David S. Mackey, Esq., Anderson & Kreiger LLP (via email: 
dmackey@AndersonKreiger.com) 
Grafton & Upton Railroad Company c/o David Click, Esq. (via email: 
 
Hopedale Town Clerk (via email: lpedroli@hopedale-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
