===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 14, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 125 
 
 
Richard Massina, Esq. 
Clifford & Kenny, LLP 
31 Schoosett Street, Suite 405 
Pembroke, MA 02359 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Massina, 
 
 This office received a complaint from Holly McNamara on July 21, 2021, alleging that 
the Somerset Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 3 and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 24.  The complaint alleges that the Board improperly 
voted not to renew the Police Chief’s contract during an executive session meeting held on April 
22.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting 
held on April 22, as well as a video recording of the open session portion of the April 22 
meeting.2  Finally, we spoke with you via telephone on August 11. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
April 22 at 5:15 P.M.  The notice listed 12 topics, including an executive session to approve the 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s open session meeting held on April 22 is available here: 
http://www.somersetaccesstv.org/satv/?page_id=531.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on April 14 and to “conduct contract 
negotiations with non-union personnel – Police Chief.”  
 
The April 22 meeting was held as planned and Board members participated remotely.  
The Board convened in open session at 5:15 P.M. and Chair Lorne Lawless asked for a roll call 
of the members who were participating remotely.  The two members present, Allen Smith and 
Chair Lawless, each stated their name and announced that they were participating remotely.  
Chair Lawless then announced that the Board would enter executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a).  The Board unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive session and 
announced that it would reconvene in open session following the conclusion of the executive 
session.   
 
During the executive session, the Board approved executive session minutes from a 
meeting held on April 14.  The Board then discussed whether to renew the contract of the Police 
Chief  with members indicating their inclination not to renew the contract.  The Town 
Administrator, who was present for the executive session, reviewed the terms of the contract 
with the Board and the requirements for providing notice to the Police Chief should a contract 
not be renewed.  The Town Administrator then indicated that he would reach out to Town Labor 
Counsel who would draft a notice to the Police Chief.   
 
 At the conclusion of the executive session, the Board reconvened in open session and 
discussed the open session topics, which included vacancies on the Board and Middle School 
Building Committee, scheduling a special town election, the timeline for opening Town Offices 
and a return to in-person meetings, a code of conduct for the Board, the purchase of noise meters, 
and several Town Meeting warrant articles.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.3   
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. 
Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on 
matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was 
called). 
 
During the April 22 meeting, the Board convened in executive session and discussed 
whether to renew the Police Chief’s contract.  Although not raised in the complaint, we note our 
concern that prior to convening in executive session on April 22, the chair failed to announce the 
specific purpose for the executive session, i.e., that it would be discussing strategy in preparation 
for contract negotiations with the Police Chief pursuant to Purpose 2.  Rather, the chair only 
announced that the Board would convene in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. 
Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).  We remind the Board of 
its obligations under the law. 
 
We find that the Board’s discussion of the Police Chief’s contract fit within the 
parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as the discussions focused on whether it should 
renew the contract of the Police Chief.  See OML 2013-47; OML 2011-44.  However, the 
complaint specifically alleges that the Board improperly took a vote in executive session to not 
renew the Police Chief’s contract.  The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct 
contract negotiations with nonunion personnel in executive session, but does not authorize a 
public body to approve a contract in executive session.  See OML 2013-91; OML 2011-56; OML 
2011-44.  Therefore, although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract 
in executive session, it must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open 
session.  See OML 2011-28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
voting to approve superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).  Here, the Board did 
not approve any terms of a contract because there were no terms to approve since the Police 
Chief’s contract was expiring, nor did the Board approve any specific severance terms.  We find 
that the Board did not take a vote in executive session regarding whether to renew the Police 
Chief’s contract; rather, the Board agreed to let the Police Chief’s contract expire based on the 
previously negotiated terms.  See OML 2021-5; OML 2018-146; compare OML 2012-10 (Board 
improperly executed contract addendum offering severance payment upon completion of Town 
Manager’s contract in executive session).  Because the Board did not ratify or execute a contract, 
we conclude that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during the April 22 executive 
session.4      
 
4 In her request for further review, the complainant suggests that the Board failed to disclose in a subsequent 
meeting that the Police Chief’s contract was not renewed.  The Open Meeting Law imposes no obligation on public 
bodies to place items on a meeting agenda, unless a chair anticipates discussing a particular topic.  See OML 2016-
68.  In fact, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic.  See OML 2015-73; OML 
2014-98; OML 2013-64; OML 2012-23.  Rather, the law requires that a meeting notice list all topics the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Thus, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by deciding not to 
further discuss the Police Chief’s contract in a subsequent open meeting.  Whether the Board is required to vote on 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Holly McNamara – By email only:  
Somerset Board of Selectmen c/o Town Administrator Richard Brown – By email only: 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
the renewal or non-renewal of a contract, per the town charter or bylaws, is outside the scope of the Open Meeting 
Law.     
