===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY TEL: (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
June 18,2015 
OML 2015-82 
Bonnie Conner, Chair 
Hinsdale Select Board 
39 South Street 
Hinsdale, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Conner: 
This office received a complaint from Angela Stetson, dated April 13,1 alleging that 
the Hinsdale Select Board (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 18, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, to the complaint by letter dated February 26.2 In her 
complaint, Ms. Stetson alleges that the Board's January 28 meeting minutes are inaccurate. 
Specifically, she claims that the minutes incorrectly summarize the steps taken by the Board 
in considering a particular motion. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response to the 
complaint; and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the recordings, notices, and minutes from the Board's January 28 and February 12 
meetings. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 28, the Board held a meeting, in part, to 
authorize legal counsel to represent the Board at a hearing concerning an earlier Open 
Meeting Law decision. Chair Conner started the discussion by reading the topic as it was 
described on the notice, "Approval to have legal counsel represent The Select Board in Open 
Meeting Law hearing" and then she stated, "I would make a motion" before she was 
interrupted and a discussion between the Board and members of the public ensued. Following 
this discussion, the motion was seconded and approved. The minutes state that the Board 
approved a motion to "have legal representation at [a] hearing" on an Open Meeting Law 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
matter, but do not state that the motion was seconded, a fact that was inadvertently omitted 
from the minutes. 
In an email to the Board on January 30, the complainant expressed her concern about 
the validity of the Board's January 28 vote. To assuage any such concern. Chair Conner 
placed the topic on the notice for the Board's February 11 meeting so that the Board could 
vote again to authorize counsel. During the February 11 meeting, the Board approved a 
motion, after being seconded, to "re-approve sending Town Counsel to represent the Select 
Board in the Open Meeting Law hearing." Chair Conner explained that the Board held this 
re-vote because, "some felt the previous vote was not done correct[ly] (sic)." Earlier in the 
meeting, the Board approved its January 28 minutes without making any revisions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
"create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions 
on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made 
and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). 
While the minutes must include a summary of the discussions on each subject, a transcript is 
not required. OML 2015-55; OML 2012-29. Minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy, however, so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read 
the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. Id 
The complainant alleges that the minutes are inaccurate because they state that a 
motion was made to approve legal counsel when it was not, in fact, made during the January 
28 meeting. Additionally, she alleges that the minutes fail to note that this motion was 
seconded. We find that the January 28 minutes are sufficiently accurate, despite the omission 
due to a typographical error of the fact that the motion was seconded. The entire discussion 
surrounding the motion demonstrates that the Board clearly intended to approve a request for 
legal counsel at an Open Meeting Law hearing. Furthermore, while it is a best practice for 
public bodies to note in their minutes that motions were made and seconded prior to a vote, 
listing these procedural steps is not a requirement of the Open Meeting Law. The Law 
requires merely a summary of the discussions on each subject and a record of all votes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 22(a). Here, the minutes accurately summarize the discussion on this topic and 
record the outcome of the vote that was taken. Because the minutes meet the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law, we find no violation. See OML 2014-138. We recommend that the 
Board correct the typographical error in its minutes, however. 
3 We do not make any finding about the validity of the vote as it is not governed by the Open Meeting Law and 
therefore outside the scope of our review. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely 
ianne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Angela Stetson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 