===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 2, 2019 
OML 2019-94
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Luff:
This office received a complaint from Corey Spaulding on April 18 alleging that the 
Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 19, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by e-mail dated March 26. In her complaint, Ms. Spaulding 
alleges that the notice for the Committee’s February 25 meeting was insufficiently detailed, as 
the topic “Discussion of Legal Settlements” under “SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT” did not 
identify the specific legal matters to be discussed.2
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee’s February 25 meeting, as well 
as a video recording of the February 25 meeting.3
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019, unless otherwise indicated.
2 To the extent the complaint also alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to place on 
the agenda a topic that Ms. Spaulding had previously requested - specifically, the Spaulding family’s “safety 
concerns of a disabled child” and “a discussion about why my child was targeted” - we find that the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law contains no requirement that a public body add topics to 
its meeting agenda if requested by members of the public. OML 2013-40. The agenda for a meeting is entirely 
within the discretion of the chair and the public body. Id. Although we encourage public bodies to be responsive to 
issues raised by members of the public, the Open Meeting Law does not require that they address such topics in a 
meeting. Id.
3 The video of the meeting is available at https://www.natickpegasus.org/education-channel.html

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On February 20, the Committee posted notice for a meeting 
to be held on February 25. Among several open session topics, the notice included the following 
topics:
PUBLIC SPEAK
Public Speak is scheduled for a period of fifteen minutes. Each speaker will be 
permitted a maximum of three minutes during which time they can speak about 
topics within the scope of responsibility of the School Committee. All remarks 
will be addressed through the School Committee Chair.
SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
5. Discussion of Legal Settlements
The February 25 meeting was held as noticed. During the Public Speak portion of the 
meeting, Ms. Spaulding spoke and requested to be put on the agenda to discuss her concerns 
regarding bullying and the safety of her child. She also reiterated allegations of embezzlement 
and asked the Board to respond to those allegations, and concluded by requesting evidence from 
a prior lawsuit regarding a residency dispute involving her child. The Board did not discuss the 
issues Ms. Spaulding addressed during Public Speak.
Next, during the Superintendent’s Report, Superintendent AnnaNolin presented an 
overview of several different legal settlements. The first legal matter that the Superintendent 
addressed involved an employment matter. She also identified the total cost of special education 
litigation for the current year. The remaining matters pertained to various lawsuits brought by 
the Spaulding family. The minutes of the Committee’s February 25 meeting provide a detailed 
recap of the Superintendent’s report. For purposes of this determination, we note that, generally, 
the Superintendent reported that since 2014, the Spaulding family has brought 11 legal actions 
against the Natick Public Schools, as well as a Board of Special Education Appeals appeal and a 
claim with the Office of Civil Rights, all of which were decided in favor of the Natick Public 
Schools. The Superintendent reported the total amount that the Natick Public Schools has spent 
on legal fees in the referenced actions. The Superintendent also reported that in one additional 
matter, the Natick Public Schools reached a settlement and made a payment to the plaintiffs’ 
attorneys, as well as paying its own attorneys. The Superintendent reported that she was 
providing the summary of the legal matters and the expenses incurred in response to Ms. 
Spaulding’s prior requests, and also for the sake of transparency to the Town of Natick. On this 
agenda topic, the Superintendent spoke uninterrupted for approximately eight minutes. After the 
Superintendent concluded her report, the Committee Chair asked whether any member of the 
Committee had any questions; there were none. The Committee then moved on to the next topic.
2

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35; OML 
2012-71; OML 2011-44.4
The complaint alleges that the meeting notice for the Board’s February 25 meeting, 
which included the topic “Discussion of Legal Settlements” under “Superintendent’s Report” but 
did not identify any particular legal matters, was insufficiently detailed. The complaint alleges 
that “all but the public were aware the Spaulding Family was to be discussed,” but also alleges 
that when Ms. Spaulding arrived at the meeting and asked Committee member Donna McKenzie 
and Recording Secretary Rose McDermott what the Legal Settlements agenda item referred to, 
“neither were aware.”
Deliberation is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction...” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. At the February 25 meeting, Superintendent Nolin, 
who is not a member of the Committee, provided a verbal report to the Committee regarding 
several legal matters, including the legal costs associated with the various matters. Most of the 
legal matters on which Superintendent Nolin reported involved the Spaulding family. The 
Committee, however, did not discuss any particular legal matters nor legal matters generally; did 
not discuss Superintendent Nolin’s report; and did not otherwise respond to the matters raised in 
Superintendent Nolin’s report. We therefore find that where the Board did not have any 
discussion regarding legal settlements, whether involving the Spaulding family or otherwise, the 
Board did not engage in deliberation on this topic. We have previously stated that “where a 
public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate 
the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice.” OML 2016-76; 
see also OML 2018-22; OML 2017-11; OML 2015-37. Therefore, we find that the Committee 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
We note that, in the past, when a meeting notice has included as a topic a report or 
presentation by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as “Superintendent’s 
Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we have declined to 
find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the public body chair did 
not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations to be had. Nonetheless, we have 
encouraged public body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the speaker and include.on the 
meeting notice more detail regarding the precise matters to be discussed. See OML 2018-33 
(finding no violation where the public body engaged in deliberation regarding a matter that arose 
during the town administrator’s report to the Board, listed on the notice merely as “Report from
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
Departments,” but encouraging the chair to solicit a more detailed set of topics in the future); 
OML 2012-19 (“best practice dictates that the Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain what 
the Superintendent plans to discuss and include all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the 
meeting notice”). On the other hand, if a public body chair actually knows in advance the 
specific nature of the topics to be discussed, that information must be included on the meeting 
notice. In this case, we need not decide whether the Committee Chair knew which specific legal 
matters the Superintendent planned to address at the February 25 meeting, because the 
Committee did not engage in deliberation on the topic and therefore could not have violated the 
Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice in any event.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Corey Spaulding
Natick School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
