===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 16, 2014 
OML 2014-68 
Lauren Galvin, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
200 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received complaints from Joaquin Soares, dated April 7, 2014, and 
Patricia MacNeil, dated May 5, 2014, alleging that the Stoughton School Committee (the 
"Committee") and its Community Relations Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Both complaints allege that the 
Subcommittee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting to review the resumes of 
applicants for the position of Community Relations Specialist. Ms. MacNeil's complaint 
was initially filed with the Committee on or about February 22, 2014, and Mr. Scares' 
complaint was filed with the Committee on or about February 25, 2014. The 
Committee's counsel responded on its behalf to both complaints by letter dated March 
26,2014.' 
Following our review, we find that neither the Committee nor the Subcommittee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
February 22, 2013 and February 25, 2014 complaints filed with the Committee; the 
Committee's March 26, 2014 response; and the April 7, 2013 and May 5, 2014 
complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, minutes and a 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in third person. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
2 video recording of the Committee's January 28, 2014 meeting. Finally, we spoke with 
counsel for the Committee and Subcommittee by telephone on May 7, 2014. 
FACTS 
The School Committee is a five-member public body. On October 17, 2013, the 
Stoughton Public Schools advertised that it was seeking to hire a Community Relations 
Specialist. On October 24, 2013, two Committee members, Deborah Sovinee and Dr. 
Carol Brown, attended a training on communications sponsored by the Massachusetts 
Association of School Committees. On November 26, 2013, the Committee created the 
Community Relations Subcommittee and appointed Ms. Sovinee and Dr. Brown as its 
members. 
On or about January 3, 2014, the Superintendent of Schools' assistant sent Ms. 
Sovinee and Dr. Brown the resumes of candidates for the Community Relations 
Specialist position. Ms. Sovinee then called Dr. Brown to schedule a meeting of the 
Subcommittee to review the resumes. They could not find a mutually agreeable date 
prior to the Superintendent's candidate interviews. As a result, the Subcommittee 
members reviewed the resumes individually and never met or discussed the resumes with 
each other. 
Ms. Sovinee participated in the Superintendent's candidate interviews on January 
9, 2014 and January 10, 2014. No other Committee or Subcommittee members 
participated. On January 15, 2014, the Superintendent hired one of the three candidates 
under consideration. 
On January 28, 2014, the Committee held a noticed meeting, during which it met 
with the recently hired Community Relations Specialist. During the meeting. School 
Committee member Dr. Erdem Ural asked if the Subcommittee had met. Dr. Brown 
replied that it had met when she and Ms. Sovinee attended the training session. 
Committee Chair Joyce Flusseini clarified that the Subcommittee had not met, but rather 
its two members had reviewed the resumes individually. Dr. Ural again asked if the 
Subcommittee had met. Dr. Brown again replied that they did meet, when she and Ms. 
Sovinee attended the training session. Dr. Ural then asked when the Subcommittee 
members had discussed the resumes. Ms. Sovinee replied that she didn't know, but it had 
been weeks ago. Dr. Ural then stated that he believed the Subcommittee violated the 
Open Meeting Faw. Superintendent Marguerite Rizzi then stated that the Subcommittee 
could meet with members of the staff without violating the Open Meeting Faw. Ms. 
Sovinee further explained that only she and the Superintendent had interviewed the 
candidates. 
2 Available at www.stoughtontv.com/piiblic-gov-schedule. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted 
in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). "Meeting" is 
defined, in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A '"meeting" does not include "attendance by a 
quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a conference or 
training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do not 
deliberate." IcL "Deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall 
not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of 
other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. A 
"quorum" is "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise 
provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." IcL 
The complaints allege that the Subcommittee, consisting of Ms. Sovinee and Dr. 
Brown, communicated outside of a noticed meeting to discuss the candidates for the 
Community Relations Specialist position. It appears that confusion during the 
Committee's January 28, 2014 meeting contributed to the filing of this complaint. 
During that meeting. Dr. Ural asked if the Subcommittee had met. Dr. Brown replied 
that they had, however it is clear that she was referencing the members' attendance at an 
October 24, 2013 communications training session. Ms. Sovinee and Dr. Brown attended 
this event before the Subcommittee was created, thus there was no need for them to post 
notice of a Subcommittee meeting on that date. Additionally, because less than a quorum 
of the full Committee attended the training event, there also was no need to post notice of 
a meeting of the Committee. Finally, we note that a "meeting" does not include 
"attendance by a quorum of a public body at a.. .conference or training program .. .so 
long as the members do not deliberate," thus even if a quorum of either body had 
attended the event, their attendance likely would have been exempt from the law's 
requirements. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Further, although Ms. Sovinee's response to Dr. Ural's question suggested the 
Subcommittee discussed the resumes, it does not appear that there was any substantive 
discussion between its members. On or about January 3, 2014, the Superintendent of 
Schools' assistant sent Ms. Sovinee and Dr. Brown the resumes of candidates for the 
Community Relations Specialist position. Ms. Sovinee and Dr. Brown spoke outside of a 
meeting only to attempt to schedule a Subcommittee meeting. There was no substantive 
discussion of the candidates' resumes during their telephone call. The definition of 
deliberation specifically excludes discussion of "scheduling information," thus this call 
did not constitute deliberation. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Additionally, we find that the 
Subcommittee never met and Ms. Sovinee and Dr. Brown did not otherwise discuss the 
resumes with each other. Although Ms. Sovinee participated in the candidate interviews 
with the Superintendent, this also did not constitute deliberation because no other 
3 
===PAGE 4===
members of the Subcommittee or the Committee were involved. Accordingly, we find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the neither the Committee nor the 
Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. If 
you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact our office at 
(617)963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stoughton School Committee 
Joaquin Soares 
Patricia MacNeil 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 