===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH  OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY  GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS  02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
April 16, 2013 
OML 2013 — 46 
David T. Gay 
Gay & Gay, P.C. 
73 Washington Street 
P.O. Box 988 
Taunton, MA 02780 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gay: 
This office received a complaint from Karen O'Connor, dated January 3, 2012, alleging 
that the Dighton Police Station Building Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that 1) the Committee 
posted a meeting notice with the wrong meeting date; 2) the Committee's notices for two 
meetings lacked sufficient specificity because of the use of abbreviations; and 3) the 
Committee's meeting notices lacked sufficient specificity because the topics listed were too 
vague to provide the public with an understanding of the topic that would be discussed at the 
meetings. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about December 1, 
2011, and the Committee responded to that complaint by letter dated December 15, 2011. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee's notice for its November 17, 2011 meeting did not meet the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law because it did not list topics with sufficient specificity. 
However, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by posting a notice 
with an attached agenda that listed the incorrect date. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the December 1, 2011 complaint; the Committee's December 15, 2011 response; and 
the January 3, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the meeting notice, 
agenda, and minutes for the November 17, 2011 and November 30, 2011 meetings. 
FACTS  
The Committee posted notice on November 15, 2011 at 3:39 PM for a meeting to be held 
on November 17, 2011 at 6:00 PM. Attached to the notice was the agenda for the November 17, 
2011 meeting. The meeting date on the agenda was incorrectly listed as December 17, 2011. 
===PAGE 2===
Under "New Business," the agenda listed the topic "RFP for professional services. Review 
qualifications review criteria." 
On November 17, 2011 the Committee convened its meeting at 6:00 PM. The minutes 
reflect that during the meeting, the Committee presented a list of prospective consultants that it 
planned to send a request for proposal. The Committee also outlined the review process upon 
receipt of proposals from the various firms. The Committee described how the review process 
would work and explained the qualifying criteria. No members of the public attended the 
meeting. The meeting adjourned at 7:35 PM. 
The Committee posted a notice on November 28, 2011 for its meeting on November 30, 
2011. The notice for the Committee's meeting contained the topic "review RFP submittals, 
make recommendation to the BOS." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any 
notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Furthermore, "[n]otice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. Any topic discussed at a meeting, which was 
reasonably anticipated by the chair of the public body more than 48 hours before the meeting, 
must be listed in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
Here, the Committee posted notice for its November 17, 2011 meeting 48 hours in 
advance, and included the correct date, time, and place in the meeting notice. However, the 
notice did not include the list of topics that the Committee planned to discuss. Those topics were 
listed in an attached agenda that incorrectly stated the meeting date as December 17, 2011. 
Although this was confusing to anyone viewing the two documents together, we have no reason 
to believe the date inconsistency was anything more than a clerical error. Because the correct 
date and time were included in the actual meeting notice, we do not find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. However, we encourage the Committee to be more attentive to preventing errors 
that may cause confusion as to meetings dates. 
Additionally, we note that the agenda for the November 17, 2011 meeting included only a 
broadly stated topic indicating that the Committee would send a request for proposals for 
"professional services." The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting notices list those topics 
anticipated by the chair with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting.' 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A topic listed as "professional services" is 
1  See also the section of the Attorney General's website that includes Frequently Asked Questions pertaining to the 
Open Meeting Law, www.mass.gov.ago/openmeeting:  
Q: How specific must the listing of topics be in the meeting notice? 
A: The listing of topics must contain enough specificity to give the public an understanding of each topic that will be 
discussed. It is not sufficient to list broad topic categories, such as "Old Business." For example, when the Chair of a 
Board of Selectmen reasonably anticipates a discussion about on-going traffic improvement projects in town at the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
not sufficiently specific. See id. It appears that the Committee's practice was to post a notice 
listing the date, time and location of a meeting, then attach an agenda containing the list of topics 
for discussion when they were determined. While this practice is permissible, the attached 
agenda must satisfy the same requirements for specificity of discussion topics as the notice. 
Therefore, to the extent that the Committee was aware which specific professional services it 
would consider during the meeting, it should have taken the additional step of listing in the 
agenda attached to the notice the nature of those professional services. See OML 2011-11. 2  
Finally, the complainant alleges that the Committee's meeting notice and attached agenda 
lacked sufficient specificity because the Committee used the abbreviation "RFP" rather than 
stating "Request for Proposal" in both its November 17, 2011 and November 30, 2011 meeting 
notices. The complaint alleges that the abbreviation is "too vague" and that "people may not 
know the meanings of the letters in the abbreviations." Although these are standard 
abbreviations used commonly in the municipal government vernacular, the Committee agreed in 
its December 15, 2011 response that it will "attempt to refrain from using these abbreviations in 
future postings." We encourage public bodies to avoid using abbreviations or acronyms in 
meeting notices, however we do not believe that the use of "RFP" constituted a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. 
We acknowledge and commend the actions that the Committee has taken in response to 
this complaint, including its commitment to 1) ensure that there are no discrepancies between its 
meeting notices and the materials attached to meeting notices including its written agendas; 2) 
attempt to refrain from using abbreviations that are not part of ordinary plain English vernacular; 
and 3) refrain from using generic terms on its posted agendas as necessary to avoid vagueness 
regarding the subject matter being referenced. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee's notice for its November 17, 2011 meeting did not meet the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law because it did not list topics with sufficient specificity. 
However, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by posting a notice 
with an attached agenda that listed the incorrect date. We order the Committee's immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please 
feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter to be 
inaccurate. 
next Board meeting, it would be appropriate for the Chair to list that topic in the notice as: "Discussion of Traffic 
Improvement Projects at the intersection of Main and Pleasant Streets; and at the intersection of Elm and Oak 
Streets." In some instances, there may be overlap in the posting requirements of the Open Meeting Law and other 
statutes. In most cases, the information required by the controlling statute will satisfy the Open Meeting Law 
meeting notice requirements, however for specific questions please contact the Division of Open Government. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarisc 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Dighton Police Station Building Committee 
Karen O'Connor 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 