===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 17, 2016 
OML 2016-141 
Kenneth Easier, Chair 
Monterey Select Board 
435 Main Road, P.O. Box 308 
Monterey, MA 01245 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Easier: 
This office received a complaint from Rudolph Gero, dated August 19, alleging that the 
Monterey Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 25, and the Board responded by letter 
dated August 29. In his complaint, Mr. Gero alleges that the Board discussed a topic during a 
meeting that had not been listed on the meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of the Board's June 
27 meeting, as well as the minutes of this same meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. At issue is a Board meeting held on June 27. The notice of 
this meeting listed several anticipated topics but made no mention of the complainant, who at the 
time was employed with the Monterey Police Department. At the beginning of the meeting, a 
citizen was recognized by the Board to speak. This citizen gave the Board a written statement 
describing an incident that had occurred on May 31. This incident involved the complainant. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also states that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the past, citing a date in 2014 as an 
example. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days 
of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). We therefore find that this allegation is untimely and we decline to 
review it. We also note that the Division of Open Government does not perform broad audits of public bodies. See 
OML 2013-180, 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Board then discussed the matter briefly. On July 5, the Board voted not to reappoint the 
complainant to his position. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47. While public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting 
notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we 
encourage postponement of discussion of such items until proper notice can be given to the 
public. See OML 2013-87: OML 2013-13.3 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board should not have accepted and discussed the 
written statement at issue during the June 27 meeting, as the issue was not listed on the meeting 
notice.4 A public body may discuss an unnoticed topic that arises for the first time during a 
meeting, provided that the chair did not reasonably anticipate such topic at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. See OML 2016-115. The Board's response states that it had no prior 
knowledge that the individual at issue would attend the meeting and ask to be recognized. The 
complainant has provided no evidence to rebut this assertion, and we credit the Board in this 
regard. See OML 2014-144 (absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version 
of events). Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to this allegation.5 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board failed to respond to the 
complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of time has been 
requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney 
General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). 
Here, the complaint was filed with the Board on July 25, and the Board did not respond until 
August 29. We remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting, 
4 The complaint alleges that the written statement given to the Board during the June 27 meeting contained 
inaccurate statements about the complainant. Even if this allegation is true, it would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-23. 
5 To the extent that the complaint asserts that the complainant should have been given individualized notice before 
being discussed during the meeting, we note that a public body is not required to provide individualized notice 
before discussing an individual in open session. See OML 2013-24. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Rudolph Gero 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 