===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 25, 2012 
OML 2012 - 62 
John Davis, Esq. 
Pierce, Davis & Perritano, LLP 
90 Canal Street 
Boston, MA 02114 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Barnstable Town Council 
Dear Attorney Davis: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Janet Joakim, dated 
September 6, 2011, alleging that the Barnstable Town Council (the "Council") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint states that on June 2, 2011, the Council 
considered several Open Meeting Law complaints, but was unable to proceed when five 
councilors left the meeting in order to defeat the quorum necessary for the Council to proceed 
with the meeting. The complaint specifically alleges that Council members had been holding 
discussions outside of the meeting and acted "with numbers needed to control votes, thus 
preventing citizens from giving a voice to important issues and excluding other elected 
representatives." The complaint additionally alleges that, prior to the Council's June 29, 2011 
meeting, one Council member spoke with six other Council members in an effort to secure a vote 
to remove the Town Manager. The complaint was filed with the Council on July 1, 2011. The 
Council responded to the complaint in a letter dated August 15, 2011. 
We find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination we reviewed the July 1, 2011 complaint; the Council's August 15, 2011 response; 
the September 6, 2011 complaint; and the minutes of the Council's August 4, 2011 meeting. 
Additionally, we reviewed portions of the Barnstable Town Charter and a newspaper article from 
the Barnstable Patriot that was provided by the complainant. Council tugged toward rupture, 
Edward F. MarOney, BARNSTABLE PATRIOT, March 18, 2011. Finally, between February and 
April 2012, we interviewed by telephone current and former Council members Ann Canedy, 
President Frederick Chirigotis, James Crocker, Debra Dagwan, Henry Farnham, Janet Joakim, 
Gregory Milne, James Munafo, and John Norman. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Barnstable Town Council is a thirteen-member public body. A quorum of the body, 
for purposes of convening a meeting, is defined as half of the body plus two, or nine councilors. 
Barnstable Town Charter, Section 2-6(b). Certain appropriation votes require approval by a 
simple majority of the full Council (seven votes), while other motions may be adopted by a 
majority of the councilors present (as few as five votes). The complainant, who is a councilor, 
has expressed frustration because, under this framework, a minority of the Council may 
communicate outside of a meeting to agree to defeat a measure by preventing the Council from 
reaching the quorum necessary to conduct a vote. For example, because nine councilors must be 
present to conduct a meeting, five of the thirteen councilors could agree to defeat a measure by 
exiting the room, leaving only eight members remaining, which is insufficient to continue the 
meeting and take action. 
With this background, the complainant alleges that former Councilor James Crocker "told 
the manager he had secured 6 votes to remove him and on 3/10/2011, Mr. Crocker spoke with a 
7th councilor, Richard Barry, seeking his commitment to join the other 6 councilors to achieve a 
majority vote regarding the manager." The Council's August 15, 2011 letter to our office 
reflects that the Council members were unable to reach consensus in responding to the 
allegations in the complaint. After speaking with nine Council members, however, it does not 
appear that Mr. Crocker spoke with six or more Council members outside of a meeting regarding 
the Town Manager's employment. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that the "all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public," subject to limited exceptions for executive sessions. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20, 21. "Meeting" is defmed in the Open Meeting Law as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. at § 18. In turn, 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A quorum is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, 
unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing 
provision." Id. 
The complainant argues that when fewer than a majority of the Council members 
communicate in an effort to prevent the Council from reaching a quorum necessary to conduct a 
meeting, that such activity violates the spirit of the Open Meeting Law. The complainant states 
that such "behavior erodes the public trust and creates suspicion in the minds of those we are 
elected to serve." While the complainant may be correct that such activity creates suspicion in 
the minds of the public and reduces transparency hi government, it does not violate the Open 
Meeting Law, because a quorum of the Council is not engaging in a deliberation as defmed by 
G.L. c. 30A, §18. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Crocker claims that, contrary to the complainant's allegation, he did not 
communicate with a quorum of the Council outside of a meeting to urge them to support 
removing the Town Manager. After speaking with nine Council members, we credit Mr. 
Crocker's assertion. While Mr. Crocker may have told the Town Manager that he had the votes 
to remove him, it appears that he based this statement on his overall experience with the Council 
members, and not on specific conversations with six or more members. Therefore, we do not 
find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This determination does not resolve any other complaints 
against public bodies in Barnstable that may be pending with our office. Please contact me if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Janet Joakim 
James Crocker 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
Because we find that Mr. Crocker did not contact even seven members of the Council regarding Mr. Klimm's 
employment, we need not decide whether quorum for the purpose of a Council deliberation is seven or nine 
members. 
3 