===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 15, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 58 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
William Meeker 
Chair, Conservation Commission 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
concomm@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Meeker:  
 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Kelleher on February 5, 2025, alleging 
that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
January 6, 2025, and the Commission responded via email on January 23, 2025.  The complaint 
alleges that minutes of the Commission’s meeting of October 23, 2024, were insufficiently 
detailed and failed to list documents used during the meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed minutes and listened to portions of an audio recording of the subject meeting.1   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Commission held a meeting on October 23, 2024 
(“the October 23 Meeting”).
2  During the last 15 minutes of the October 23 Meeting, the 
Commission reviewed five Open Meeting Law complaints which the complainant previously had 
 
1 We accessed the recording at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3SjkZpJGn8&list=PLEZBtq345cqyR6pvEV2mlk -Ln8PwsCwiK&index=4. 
2 The October 23 Meeting also is the subject of a determination we issued on January 31, 2025.  See OML 2025-11.  
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
filed with the Commission.  Chair William Meeker3 noted that one of the complaints had been 
withdrawn by the complainant.  He then read aloud draft responses to each of the remaining 
complaints.  Other members, especially Vice Chair Sarah Campbell, also commented on the 
complaints.  Toward the end of the Commission’s discussion of the Open Meeting Law 
complaints, Chair Meeker noted that Vice Chair Campbell’s comments reflected her own 
opinion, and that, although they will be taken into consideration, they will not be incorporated 
into the responses to the Open Meeting Law complaints.  Vice Chair Campbell agreed.  Shortly 
thereafter, the Commission voted to “let Mr. Meeker handle the responses to the Attorney 
General.”  Minutes of the October 23 Meeting, which the Commission accepted at its December 
18 meeting, do not summarize Chair Meeker’s draft responses to the complaints.  The minutes 
do, however, include a summary of Vice Chair Campbell’s comments.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Minutes of the October 23 meeting were not sufficiently detailed. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail 
and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2025-13; OML 2023-35; 
OML 2021-140.4 
 
During the October 23 Meeting, Chair Meeker read to the Commission his draft 
re
sponses to several Open Meeting Law complaints.  However, the minutes do not summarize 
these proposed responses.  Rather, the minutes simply note that “Mr. Meeker read the responses 
he had written into the record.”  Because the minutes do not include a summary of Chair 
Meeker’s proposed responses, which were read aloud during the meeting, they do not adequately 
summarize the discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaints, and as such are insufficiently 
detailed.  We find, therefore, that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by approving 
insufficient minutes of the October 23 Meeting.  We also take this opportunity to correct the 
Commission’s misunderstanding that a document read during a meeting need not be summarized 
in the minutes if it is available as a public record.  A document’s status as a public record does 
not eliminate the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that minutes contain a summary of the 
discussions on each subject.  See OML 2024-50 (minutes which simply noted that statement was 
read but contained no summary of same were insufficiently detailed); OML 2016-158 (same); 
OML 2016-35 (minutes which noted that complainant “read a prepared statement” and attached 
statement to minutes were insufficiently detailed). 
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes were insufficiently detailed in other aspects, as 
well.
  We disagree.  The summary of Vice Chair Campbell’s comments was adequate, as it 
included her remarks as to each of the proposed responses on which she spoke.  Moreover, the 
minutes are sufficiently detailed notwithstanding omission of Mr. Meeker’s comment that Vice 
Chair Campbell’s opinion will be “taken into consideration.”  Although minutes must include a 
summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2019-81; OML 
2011-55.   
 
II. The Commission violated the Open Meeting Law when it included an incomplete 
list of documents used at the meeting.  
 
As noted above, minutes must include “a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting,” among other information.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Open Meeting Law does not 
define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that 
where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the 
members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2025-6; OML 2017-43; OML 2014-12.  Where Chair Meeker 
identified his draft responses, read them and then opened them up for discussion by the 
Commission, the responses were “used” at the meeting.  By failing to include them within the list 
of documents in the minutes, the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law.5    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission viola ted the Open Meeting 
Law by approving minutes which were insufficiently detailed, and which failed to include a 
complete list of documents used during the October 23 Meeting.  We order the Commission, 
within 60 days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of the October 23 Meeting to 
include a list of all documents used at the meeting and a sufficiently detailed summary of all 
discussions held, in conformance with this letter.  As required by 940 CMR 29.07(4), the 
Commission must certify in writing to our office that it has complied with the order to amend its 
meeting minutes.  We also order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
 
  
 
5 The Commission did not concede a violation on this point, but “acknowledged that it would be appropriate ” to 
include the responses on the list of documents used during the meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookfield Town Clerk ( via email: mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
 
 
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
