===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 6, 2017 
OML 2017-55 
Michael Sacco, Esq. 
PO Box 479 
Southampton, MA 01073 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Sacco: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on February 21, alleging that 
the Fall River Retirement Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 8, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 15. In his complaint, 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board's response to his request for executive session minutes 
failed to adhere to the timeline required for reviewing executive session minutes following 
a request.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the complainant's January 26 request for executive session 
minutes and the Board's February 2 response to the request. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 26, the complainant submitted a request 
to the Board by email to schedule a time to review "the executive session minutes of all 
public bodies of your municipality, whether draft, hand written or typed, and whether 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins also states that the Board members filed their Open Meeting Law compliance 
certificates required by G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h) with the City Clerk "after being coached" by our office in 
resolution of another complaint filed with the Board, OML 2017-22. Because this issue was resolved in the 
previous determination, we decline to review it here. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
accepted, approved or not for the calendar year 2016." On February 2, the Board's 
Records Access Officer sent a letter by email to the complainant, stating that his request is 
denied. The letter then outlined the Board's plan to conduct a review of the requested 
minutes during its February 28 meeting, and to make an announcement at its next meeting 
in March. 
The complainant filed this complaint on February 8. During its February 28 
meeting, the Board determined that none of the requested executive session minutes could 
be released at that time. On March 3, the Board sent a letter to the complainant, informing 
him of its determination. 
DISCUSSION 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). The Open Meeting Law requires that when a public body receives a request for 
executive session meeting minutes, it shall review those minutes and release "the non-
exempt minutes, or any portion thereof not later than the body's next meeting or 30 days, 
whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). At the conclusion of this review, the 
public body must promptly respond to the requester and either make the minutes available 
or provide an explanation of what is being withheld and why. Id; OML 2014-79.3 
The complainant alleges that the Board's response to his request for executive 
session minutes failed to adhere to the timeline required for reviewing executive session 
minutes following a request. Here, the Board properly acknowledged the request for 
executive session minutes within 10 days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2013-99. 
Although this letter indicated that the complainant's request was denied, the full letter 
made clear that the Board intended to conduct a review pursuant to the Open Meeting Law 
to determine what, if anything, could be made available to him. Because the action 
proposed by the Board had not yet occurred when the complainant filed his complaint on 
February 8, we find no violation of the law. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. We 
note, however, that the Open Meeting Law requires the entire process to take place, at the 
very latest, within 30 days of a public body's receipt of a request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
In this instance, therefore, the Board should have conducted its review by February 25, and 
promptly notified the complainant of its determination following that review. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River Retirement Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 