===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.inass.gov/ago 
June 20, 2016 
OML 2016-76 
Wayne V. Oliveira, Chairman 
Fairhaven Beautification Committee 
125 Bridge Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MA LIRA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chairman Oliveira; 
This office received a complaint from Karen Vilandry, dated May 16, alleging that the 
Fairhaven Beautification Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, GL. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 14 and the 
Committee responded by letter dated May 16. In her complaint, Ms. Vilandry alleges that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. 
Specifically, she alleges that the Committee failed to provide the precise address of the meeting 
place, as well as provided insufficient detail about several of the items on the meeting notice. 
Additionally, she alleges that one of the items on the meeting notice was misplaced under the 
wrong topic heading. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. However, we find that this error was harmless. 
We do not find a violation with respect to the other allegation. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; the request for further review filed 
with our office; a copy of the notice and agenda for the meeting held on March 23; and a copy of 
the minutes for the meeting held on March 23. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
Wednesday, March 23. The notice listed the location of the meeting as "Fairhaven Fire/Police 
Station." Among the topics listed on the notice were the following: "Graffiti issues," "Old 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We remind the Board that unless our office grants an extension, a public body must respond within 14 business 
days of receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to our office and notify us of any remedial action taken. 
See G.L. c, 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
',3 
===PAGE 2===
Business," and "New Business." These items did not include any further description of what the 
Committee anticipated discussing during these portions of the meeting. The notice also included 
the topic "Cooke Park" with the following description: "Spring renovations and rehab . . . 
Partners with Steve Bouley and Salvation Army for the Planned 70 mi. bicycle ride to Plymouth, 
MA." 
The Committee held the March 23 meeting as planned. The Committee did not discuss 
two topics listed in the meeting notice, namely "Graffiti issues" and "New Business." During 
the portion of the meeting reserved for "Old Business," the minutes indicate that Committee 
member Beverly Rassmussen "spoke to the Tree Warden in regard to the trees in our town." 
During the portion of the meeting reserved for "Cooke Park," the minutes indicate the following: 
"Steve Bouley and his group at the Salvation Army are planning to begin work at the park 
sometime in May. The 70-mile bike ride from Fairhaven to Plymouth is set to begin at Cooke 
Park." 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Notice of the Committee's May 23 Meeting did not Sufficiently Identify the 
Meeting Location. However, the Notice Complied with the Open Meeting Law 
in Other Respects. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a meeting notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting," 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion 
will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.3 While the Open Meeting Law does not require the 
chair of a public body to guess what will occur during a meeting, the chair does need to list those 
topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2013-14. A public body 
may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic that the 
chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting, however. See id. 
The complaint first alleges that the March 23 meeting notice was insufficiently specific 
because it failed to provide the street address of the meeting location. We agree. Generally, a 
public body should provide the street address of the meeting location. See OML 2016-38. The 
Committee stated in its response that the Fairhaven Fire Station was the only fire station in town, 
and that Ms. Vilandry had attended Committee meetings at that same location on previous 
occasions. While this may be true, members of the public unfamiliar with the location of the fire 
station may wish to attend the meeting, and may be prevented from doing so without a street 
address for the fire station. For this reason, the notice did not comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. The Committee stated in its response that it was "more than happy to include an address of 
146 Washington Street" on future meeting notices. We commend the Committee's willingness 
to comply with its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. Because the complaint does not 
3 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
allege that any member of the public was confused by the meeting notice at issue, we find that 
this error was harmless. 
The complaint also alleges that the March 23 meeting notice was insufficiently specific 
because it failed to provide adequate detail for several items listed on the meeting notice, namely 
"Graffiti issues," "New Business," and "Old Business." We note that the Committee did not 
actually discuss any matters regarding "Graffiti issues" or "New Business" during the March 23 
meeting. A meeting notice must include sufficient detail to inform the public of the matters to be 
discussed; where nothing is discussed, there cannot be insufficient notice of the discussion. See 
OML 2015-37. Thus, where a public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a 
particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the 
meeting notice. See id. We therefore find no violation with respect to those topics on the notice. 
The meeting minutes do show that the Committee held discussion during the topic of 
"Old Business." Boilerplate topics, such as "Old Business," are too vague to offer the public an 
adequate understanding of the anticipated topics to be discussed at that particular meeting. See 
OML 2013-168; OML 2013-14. If the chair anticipates discussing a topic under "Old Business" 
more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, then that specific topic must be listed in the meeting 
notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see OML 2015-127. Here, the discussion with the Tree Warden 
was raised by a member other than the chair, and we find no evidence that the chair was aware 
that it would be raised prior to the meeting. 4 Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to 
this allegation.5 
11. The Placement of a Certain Agenda Topic did not Violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting," 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). However, the Open Meeting Law does not dictate how public 
bodies must organize topics within their meeting notices. See OML 2013-95. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the topic of "Partner with Steve Bouley and Salvation 
Army for the planned 70 mi. bicycle ride to Plymouth, MA" was misplaced underneath the topic 
heading "Cooke Park." In its response, the Committee claimed that the location of the topic 
under "Cooke Park" was correct since there was "proposed work that will be done to the Park by 
the Salvation Army as part of the bicycle ride event. The Committee's response provided a 
coherent explanation of why the chair anticipated discussing this matter during the portion of the 
meeting reserved for "Cooke Park." As such, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
4 We recommend that where a member of a public body anticipates raising a topic prior to the meeting date, the 
public body member should notify the chair so that the chair may list the item on the meeting notice. See OML 
2015-12; OML 2014-123; OML 2012-40. 
5 If the public body intends to use the heading of "Old Business" or "New Business" as placeholders for topics not 
reasonably anticipated by the chair, we recommend as a best practice that, when including such a topic, the public 
body indicate explicitly that the time is being reserved for topics not anticipated by the chair. See id.; OML 2015-
115. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice. Because we find that this error was 
harmless, we order no relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attomey General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Vilandry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 