===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 10, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 142 
 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12
th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By e-mail only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Waddell on July 2, 2020, alleging that the 
Wenham Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 2.  The Board did not respond to 
the complaint.2  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely release the November 19, 
2019, and December 2, 2019, executive session meeting minutes once the purpose for the 
executive sessions had concluded.  
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board has not met its burden of justifying 
continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes and therefore find that the Open Meeting 
Law no longer authorizes withholding of the November 19, 2019, and December 2, 2019, 
executive session meeting minutes.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices of the Board meetings held on 
November 19, 2019, December 2, 2019, and May 12, as well as the open session minutes of the 
November 19, 2019, and May 12 meetings.  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on July 29 and communicated with him by email on September 1 and September 28; 
spoke with you
3 by telephone on August 6; and spoke with Town Administrator Anthony 
Ansaldi by telephone on August 21.    
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 On June 15, Attorney Austin responded to the complainant by email.  However, this response was to the 
complainant’s public records request for a copy of the December 2, 2019, executive session meeting minutes.  The 
Board maintains that the complaint was not properly filed, which we address below. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On November 19, 2019, the Board met in executive session 
pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). (“Purpose 1”) to discuss complaints against a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.  On December 2, 2019, the Board again met in executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 1 to discuss complaints against a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual.  Because the Board has not publicly released the minutes of these 
executive session meetings, we do not recount their content in detail here but note that the Board 
discussed an allegation against a Board member. 
 
During a May 12 meeting in open session, the Board reviewed the November 19, 2019, 
and December 2, 2019, executive session meeting minutes, and determined that both sets of 
meeting minutes could not be released because the matter discussed during those meetings was 
still ongoing. 
 
On May 24, the complainant requested from the Board the December 2, 2019, executive 
session meeting minutes.  The Board responded to the request by stating that the executive 
session meeting minutes could not be released as the purpose for the executive session was 
ongoing.  On June 2, the complainant filed the complaint at issue here.   
 
On or about June 2 and June 15, the complainant appealed the denial of his request for 
the executive session meeting minutes to the Supervisor of Records (“Supervisor”) within the 
Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth.4  On June 29, the Supervisor issued a letter stating 
that the complainant’s “appeal is related to the release of executive session minutes which raises 
issues that potentially invoke the Open Meeting Law.  Given that an interpretation of the Open 
Meeting Law falls within the authority of the Office of the Attorney General and not this office, I 
decline to provide a determination as to the content of the executive session minutes at this 
time.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to release the November 19, 2019, and 
December 2, 2019, executive session meeting minutes once the purpose for the executive 
sessions had concluded.  The Board contends that the complaint was not properly filed because it 
was never received by the Board.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3) (complainant 
shall file a written complaint with the public body within 30 days of the date of the alleged 
violation setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation).  The  
complainant provided to this office an email, dated June 2, which he sent at 9:32 P.M. to Board 
Chair Jack Wilhelm, Vice Chair John Clemenzi, and Clerk Catherine Harrison, as well as to 
 
4 The complainant appealed the Board’s denial of his request for executive session meeting minutes to the 
Supervisor on June 2.  On June 15, Attorney Austin provided a supplemental response to the records request, on 
behalf of the Board, advising that the meeting minutes were being withheld pursuant to the Open Meeting Law 
because the purpose of the executive sessions had not expired.  The Supervisor considered the initial appeal closed 
where “the Town has sent [the complainant] a supplemental response addressing his appeal.”  Not satisfied with the 
Board’s supplemental response, the complainant appealed to the Supervisor again on June 15.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Town Clerk Diane Bucco and Town Administrator Anthony Ansaldi.5  Attached to the June 2 
email was a copy of the complaint.  As such, we find that the complaint was properly filed and 
thus review its merits.  We note that, even if the complaint had not been properly filed with the 
Board, the complainant could have filed a new complaint at any time, and as long as the Board 
failed to release the executive session meeting minutes, such complaint would be considered 
timely filed. 
 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, unless a closed-door 
executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  
One such statutory purpose for executive session is to discuss “the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).   
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session 
minutes lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 
Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151.   
 
Here, the Board met in executive session, on both November 19, 2019, and December 2, 
2019, under Purpose 1 to discuss specific charges brought against a member of the Board.  The 
Board determined, during its May 12 meeting, that the purpose for both the November 19, 2019, 
and December 2, 2019, executive sessions warranted continued non-disclosure of the executive 
session meeting minutes.  The Board continues to maintain that the purpose for both these 
executive session meetings warrants non-disclosure of the executive session minutes and 
specifically informed this office that the executive session minutes would be withheld pursuant 
to the Open Meeting Law as the purpose for the executive sessions is still ongoing and further 
that the minutes “are exempt from disclosure pursuant to exemptions (a) and (c) of the Public 
Records Law” and contain information that is protected by the attorney-client privilege.   
 
When a public body determines that the purpose for an executive session meeting is still 
ongoing, it may continue to withhold the minutes from publication under the Open Meeting Law.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  However, when the purpose for the executive session has concluded, 
the minutes must be disclosed but the public body may assert an exemption under the Public 
Records Law to withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  Here, the Board 
claims that the minutes may be withheld pursuant to exemptions (a) and (c) of the Public 
Records Law and/or the attorney-client privilege, but also that the minutes may be withheld 
because the executive session purpose is still ongoing.  Although the Board explained to us the 
basis for its claim that the disclosure of the minutes would defeat the lawful purpose for the 
executive session, we are not persuaded by the Board’s explanation that the purpose for the 
 
5 We note that Catherine Harrison is no longer a member of the Board.  Jack Wilhelm and John Clemenzi are still 
members of the Board, but Gary Cheeseman is now Chair of the Board. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
executive session remains ongoing so as to support continued nondisclosure of the November 19, 
2019, and December 2, 2019, executive session meeting minutes.  As such, the Board may no 
longer rely on the Open Meeting Law as a basis for withholding the minutes from the public, and 
the Board must release the November 19, 2019, and December 2, 2019, executive session 
minutes, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies.  
Although we find that the Open Meeting Law no longer provides a basis for withholding this 
portion of the executive session minutes, we do not herein decide whether the Public Records 
Law may authorize withholding the minutes at issue.  See OML 2019-143.  We refer the 
complainant to the Supervisor of Records in the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth 
for a determination as to whether the minutes may continue to be withheld pursuant to a Public 
Records Law exemption or the attorney-client privilege.  See OML 2015-170. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we order the Board to release the November 19, 2019, and 
December 2, 2019, executive session meeting minutes, unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the Public Records Law applies.  
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Waddell – By e-mail only:  
Wenham Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Gary Cheeseman – By e-ma
 il only: 
 
Rebecca Murray, Supervisor of Records – By e-mail only:  
 
 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
