===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
November 6, 2014 
OML 2014-126 
James W. Clarkin, Esq. 
84 North Main St. 
P.O. Box 267 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Clarkin: 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins, both dated August 19, 
alleging that the Swansea School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The first complaint was filed with the Committee on July 7 and 
alleges that, during the Committee's June 23 meeting, 1) Mr. Higgins notified the Chair that 
he would be recording the meeting but the Chair failed to inform the public that Mr. Higgins 
and two reporters were recording the meeting; and 2) the Committee did not formally 
"accept" prior meeting minutes, but approved them through a consent agenda. The 
Committee responded to this complaint through counsel by letter dated July 17.2 The second 
complaint was filed with the Committee on July 9 and alleges that a July 9 email sent by 
Committee Chair Joseph Salpietro to a quorum of the Committee constituted improper 
deliberation. The Committee responded to this complaint through counsel by letter dated July 
18. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints filed with the Committee; 
the Committee's responses; and the complaints filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Prior to the Committee's June 23 meeting, Mr. Higgins 
informed Committee Chair Joseph Salpietro that he intended to record the meeting. At the 
beginning of the meeting. Chair Salpietro informed the attendees that the meeting was being 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014, unless otherwise specified. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
recorded, and specifically identified Swansea Cable Access as an entity recording. Mr. 
Higgins was present in the audience, but did not at that time identify himself to the Chair to 
remind the Chair that he was also recording the meeting. Two reporters were also present, but 
were not recording the meeting. 
During the meeting, the Committee approved the minutes of its June 9 meeting 
through a consent agenda. According to the Committee, a consent agenda includes items that 
the Committee adopts by unanimous consent. Unanimous consent is an adoption without 
objection. If a member objects, then the Committee entertains discussion and takes a formal 
vote to approve or adopt the item. 
On July 7, Mr. Higgins emailed his first Open Meeting Law complaint to the five 
Committee members as well as four other individuals. On July 9, Chair Salpietro responded 
to the email, inadvertently replying to all recipients, informing Mr. Higgins that he would 
forward the complaint to the Committee's attorney, and expressing displeasure with Mr. 
Higgins' allegations and motives. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee Met its Obligation to Inform the Public that its June 23 Meeting was 
Being Recorded. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[ajfter notifying the chair of the public body, 
any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting...subject to 
reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment 
used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). The Law 
further requires that "[a]t the beginning of the meeting the chair shall inform other attendees 
of any such recordings." Id. 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Chair failed to satisfy these requirements because he did 
not announce, specifically, that Mr. Higgins and two reporters were recording the 
Committee's June 23 meeting. Chair Salpietro informed the meeting attendees that the June 
23 meeting was being recorded, and specifically identified Swansea Cable Access as an entity 
recording. While he did not identify each person who was recording, the Chair's statement 
was sufficient to notify any person present that their presence and/or statements could be 
recorded. Further, while Mr. Higgins alleges that the Chair failed to require the two reporters 
present to notify him of their intention to record the meeting, the reporters were not actually 
recording the meeting. Rather, they were merely taking photographs. The Open Meeting 
3 See also Roberts Rules of Order § 46:16, available at www.roberstrules.org: "Business can be expedited greatly 
by avoiding the formality of motions and voting in routine business and on questions of little importance, the 
chair assuming general (unanimous) consent until someone objects... Thus, in the case of approving the minutes, 
the chair inquires if there are any corrections, and, if one is suggested, it is made: when no correction [or no 
further correction] is suggested, the chair says: 'There being no corrections [or no further corrections] the 
minutes stand approved.' While routine and minor matters can be rapidly disposed of in this way, if at any time 
objection is made with reasonable promptness, the chair ignores what has been done in that case even if he has 
announced the result, and requires a regular vote." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Law does not require individuals who are photographing a meeting to notify the Chair. 
Accordingly, we find that the Chair met his obligation at the beginning of the meeting to 
"inform other attendees of any such recordings" and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(e). 
2. The Committee Properly Approved Minutes During its June 23 Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The law further requires that "minutes of all 
open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The 
Open Meeting Law does not specify in what manner minutes must be approved. 
During the Committee's June 23 meeting, the Committee voted to approve its June 9 
meeting minutes by unanimous consent. The result is that the meeting minutes were 
approved, without objection, by the Committee. We find this to be an acceptable method of 
approving meeting minutes, thus the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
3. The Chair did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Inadvertently Hitting Reply-All 
in an e-mail Directed to Mr. Higgins. 
The Open Meeting Law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body 
on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 3OA, § 18. The Open Meeting Law 
defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body's jurisdiction." Id. The law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)—(b), 21. Deliberation via email is prohibited by the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2012-84; OML 2011-35.4 
In its response to the July 9 complaint, the Committee explains that Chair Salpietro, in 
his haste to respond to Mr. Higgins' July 7 complaint, failed to delete the entire list of "cc" 
recipients from Mr. Higgins' July 7 email. The Committee characterizes Chair's Salpietro's 
mistake as inadvertent. It is clear from the content of the Chair's message that it was directed 
to Mr. Higgins, and not to the members of the Committee. Although the communication 
concerned a matter within the Committee's jurisdiction and reached a quorum of its members, 
because the members were not the intended recipients we find there was no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. We remind the Committee members that they should be careful to avoid 
email communications that include a quorum of the Committee and contain opinions 
regarding matters that may come before the Committee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Our best 
advice continues to be that members of public bodies not communicate over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings, and distributing documents to 
be discussed at meetings. OML 2014-80. 
4 Open Meeting Law determmations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Swansea School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 