===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 8,2018 
OML 2018 - 67 
Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee 
c/o William H. McAlduff, Jr., Interim Superintendent 
16 Charter Road 
Acton, MA 01720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAlduff: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard on April 11, alleging that the 
Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about February 17, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by 
letter dated March 16.2 In his complaint, Mr. Ballard alleges that that Committee failed to 
timely create and approve its January 11 meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the manner alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Committee's March 1 
meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During its March 1 meeting, the Committee approved its 
January 11 meeting minutes and also reviewed this complaint. Between its January 11 and 
March 1 meetings, the Committee had held meetings on January 22; January 27; February 1, 
February 15; and February 28. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise specified. 
2 We remind the Committee that, absent an extension of time, within 14 business days after receiving a 
complaint the public body shall review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send 
to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney 
General's regulations define "timely manner," as approval "within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay." See 940 CMR 29.11. The Attorney General continues to encourage that 
minutes be approved at the next meeting whenever possible. Id.; OML 2017-133.3 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to approve its January 11 meeting 
minutes in a timely manner. In its response, the Committee concedes that it had not timely 
approved them, in part because of its focus on hiring a new school superintendent. Because 
the Committee met more than three times within 30 days following its January 11 meeting, it 
had 30 days, or until February 10, by which to approve those minutes. See 940 CMR 29.11; 
OML 2018-48. The Committee was not able to provide good cause for the delay. 
Accordingly, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
approve its January 11 meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve its January 11 meeting minutes in a timely manner. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Ballard, Esq. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 