===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 26, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 224 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 16, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Acushnet Board of Library Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 17, and, after an extension 
of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 15. The 
complaint alleges that the Board entered executive session for an improper purpose.2   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a).3 The complaint alleges that on June 12 the Board unlawfully convened in 
executive session for the purpose of conducting the library director’s annual performance review. 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint additionally alleges that in the open session announcement prior to convening in executive session, 
the Board failed to specify which of the ten executive session purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law it was 
relying upon. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). As discussed further below, the discussion was not appropriate for executive 
session under any of the ten purposes; therefore, the Board could not have properly cited to any of the purposes. The 
Board did announce that it would convene in executive session to conduct the library director’s performance review, 
thus notifying the public that the reason for entering executive session was improper. See District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public 
body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper.”). 
3 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject’s obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board acknowledges, and we find, that it improperly convened in executive session to 
conduct the library director’s performance review.4  
 
In response to the complaint the Board substantively discussed the executive director’s 
performance review in open session on July 10—reviewing, discussing, and voting on each 
category upon which the library director was evaluated. In the request for further review of the 
complaint, the Complainant noted that the minutes of the improper executive session had not 
been released to the public. In response, the Board released the minutes in their entirety, sending 
a copy to the Complainant and inquiring if he was now satisfied and the complaint resolved or if 
he sought some further action by the Board. The Complainant responded that he still sought 
further review of the complaint by this office. In instances where a public body acknowledges a 
violation and all appropriate corrective action has been taken, we urge complainants not to 
consume scarce state resources by requesting review where the transparency purpose of the 
complaint has already been addressed by the corrective action taken. See OML 2012-46; OML 
2017-191; OML 2023-113; OML 2024-20. Indeed, the Open Meeting Law complaint process is 
designed to allow public bodies to take corrective action and address concerns raised in a 
complaint without this office’s involvement. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (“At least 30 days prior to 
the filing of a complaint with the attorney general, the complainant shall file a written complaint 
with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged violation and 
giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged violation.”).  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
Because the Board has already taken all appropriate remedial action we order no additional 
action.  
 
  
 
4 A public body may only discuss matters in executive session that fit within one or more of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a); OML 2013-91. One of the enumerated 
executive session purposes allows a public body to convene in executive session “[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss 
the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”) (emphasis added). Purpose 1 specifically excludes discussions of 
an individual’s professional competence; therefore, it is not appropriate to convene in executive session to conduct 
performance evaluations. See OML 2012-13; OML 2015-40; OML 2022-201. Open Meeting Law determinations 
may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jennifer Alves, Chair, Acushnet Board of Library Trustees  
(via email: )  
Pamela Labonte, Acushnet Town Clerk (via email: plabonte@acushnet.ma.us) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
