===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 23, 2017 
OML 2017-86 
Joseph Macy, Esq. 
Fall River Corporation Counsel 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received a complaint from CJ Ferry on January 23, 2017, alleging that the 
Fall River City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about December 27, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated January 23, 2017.2 In his complaint, Mr. 
Ferry alleges that the Council deliberated by text message on December 27. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council's'response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed portions of a recording of the Council's December 27 meeting.3 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a nine-member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. The mayor of Fall River is not a member of the public body. 
On or about December 27, the mayor sent a text message to the councilors notifying them that 
he planned to submit a request to the Council for an amnesty for trash and recycling fines 
during the holiday season.4 The Council held a regularly-scheduled meeting that evening 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 This response was due on January 17, 2017. As we recently addressed in OML 2017-45, we remind the 
Council again that the Open Meeting Law requires that unless an extension is granted by our office, the response 
must be sent within 14 business days of a public body's receipt of a complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29,05(5). 
3 Available at http://vod.frgtv.us/video/197277557. 
4 One councilor indicated that she had not seen a text message from the mayor because her phone had died. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
during which it discussed a letter from the mayor to the Council, dated December 27, 
requesting the amnesty. Because this complaint was filed just hours before the meeting, the 
Council discussed it. Several councilors stated that they had received a text from the mayor, 
but they asserted that they did not respond or discuss the issue with other councilors. At the 
meeting, one councilor acknowledged bringing the issue to the attention of the Council 
president and the mayor. Another councilor recalled having a discussion with the mayor 
about it before the meeting. Following a brief discussion about the merits of the amnesty, the 
Council voted to grant the mayor's request. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of 
the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Council deliberated by text message regarding the 
proposed amnesty of trash and recycling fines during the holiday season. The complaint 
references a radio interview with the mayor during which he mentioned communicating by 
text with the Council on the issue. Although the Council could not recover a copy of a text, 
we credit the Council's collective memory about the content of the text. A non-member of a 
public body may communicate with members of a public body, as long as that person does not 
facilitate communication between or among a quorum of the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
18; OML 2015-77.5 Prior to the meeting, one councilor raised the issue with the Council 
president and the mayor and another councilor had an individual conversation with the mayor 
about it. These communications were between a subquorum, and therefore did not constitute 
deliberation. See OML 2016-172. We find no evidence that the mayor polled the Council or 
otherwise facilitated communication between the councilors outside of a meeting. Because 
the mayor's text was a one-way communication to the councilors, with no further response or 
discussion between or among the Council, we find that the Council did not deliberate outside 
of a meeting. Accordingly, the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, i 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: CJ Ferry 
Fall River City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 