===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 189 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kevin F. Bresnahan, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
kbresnahan@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bresnahan: 
 
This office received three complaints from George Harris alleging that the Wayland 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on February 14, March 8, and March 
30, 2023.
1 The Committee responded by letters dated March 16, March 30, and April 14. The 
complaints stem from the Committee’s consideration and handling of complaints it received 
about the Superintendent of Wayland Public Schools, Dr. Omar Easy, and meetings related 
thereto.  
 
Together, the three complaints allege that on January 18, January 25, and February 8 the 
Committee cited to an incorrect executive session purpose in both its meeting notices and in its 
announcements prior to convening in executive session. The complaints further allege that the 
Committee failed to provide Dr. Easy, as the subject of the executive session discussions, proper 
notice of the sessions. Finally, the complaints also allege that with respect to litigation matters 
discussed in executive session on February 8 and March 1, the notice topic and the 
announcement prior to convening in executive session were insufficient.
2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify the specific litigation matters to be discussed in executive session on February 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The second complaint also raised an allegation concerning the propriety of an unrelated executive session 
discussion held on March 1. Prior to filing the complaint with our office, the Complainant withdrew this allegation; 
therefore, we do not address the allegation here.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
8 and March 1.3 We find that the Committee did not otherwise violate the Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, the 
requests for further review, and the notices for meetings held on January 18, January 25, 
February 8, and March 1. We also reviewed, in camera, redacted copies of the minutes of the 
executive sessions held on those same dates. Finally, we reviewed video recordings of the open 
session announcements made prior to the Committee convening in executive session on February 
8 and March 1.4 
 
FACTS 
 
By way of background, on October 26, 2022, the Committee held an executive session to 
discuss complaints it received regarding the Superintendent of Wayland Public Schools, Dr. 
Omar Easy. As the purpose allowing it to convene in executive session, the Committee cited to 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”), which allows public bodies to convene in executive 
session “[t]o discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health . . . of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” On November 10, 2022, the Committee 
again met to discuss the complaints regarding Dr. Easy; however, this meeting was held in open 
session at Dr. Easy’s request. During the October 26 and November 10 meetings, the Committee 
discussed whether to place Dr. Easy on administrative leave during an investigation into the 
complaints, ultimately deciding at each meeting not to place Dr. Easy on leave. 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On or about December 14, 2022, Dr. Easy filed a 
Demand for Arbitration pursuant to his employment contract. The Committee posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on January 18. Included on the notice was the following topic: “Executive 
Session: 2.1 Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A § 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation 
where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the committee. 
(Arbitration involving Wayland School Committee).” During the January 18 executive session, 
the Committee discussed with its attorney
5 the Demand for Arbitration.6 
 
The next day, on January 19, Dr. Easy’s attorney sent the Committee’s attorney a draft of 
a complaint to the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (“MCAD”) against the 
Committee and the Town. Thereafter, the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
January 25. Included on the notice was the following topic: “Executive Session 2.1 Pursuant to 
M.G.L. c. 30A § 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation where an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the committee. (Arbitration involving 
Wayland School Committee).” During the January 25 executive session, the Committee again 
discussed with its attorney the Demand for Arbitration and additionally discussed the new draft 
MCAD complaint. 
 
3 With respect to the January 18 and 25 meetings, we do not review whether the executive session notice topics and 
announcements related to litigation matters were sufficient as no complaint clearly raised this allegation with respect 
to those two meetings.   
4 Video recordings of the open session portions of the February 8 and March 1 meetings may be found at 
https://www.waycam.tv/government-on-demand. 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
6 The minutes for the executive sessions at issue in this complaint have not been released to the public at this time ; 
therefore, we only summarize their content here. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on February 8. The notice included 
the following topic: “Executive Session 2.1 Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A § 21(a)(3) to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the committee. (Arbitration involving Wayland School Committee).” In the 
announcement prior to convening in executive session, the chair
7 did not identify the litigation 
matters to be discussed, instead simply identifying that the Committee would discuss strategy 
with respect to litigation. During the February 8 executive session, the Committee again 
discussed with its attorney the Demand for Arbitration and the threatened MCAD complaint. The 
Committee also voted to place Dr. Easy on paid administrative leave.  
 
On February 10, Dr. Easy filed a complaint with MCAD against the Committee and the 
Town. 
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 1. The notice included 
the following topic: “Discussion regarding Strategy with Respect to Litigation Where an Open 
Meeting may have a Detrimental Effect on the Litigating Position of the Committee. (Arbitration 
involving Wayland School Committee), pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A § 21(a)(3).” In the 
announcement prior to convening in executive session, the chair identified that the Committee 
would discuss strategy with respect to “arbitration involving the Wayland School Committee” 
but did not otherwise identify the litigation matters to be discussed. During the March 1 
executive session, the chair provided an update regarding the Demand for Arbitration and the 
MCAD complaint.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee’s J anuary 18, January 25, and February 8 Executive Session 
Meetings Were Properly Held Under Executive Session Purpose 3. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in open 
sess
ion, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a). One such purpose is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is 
pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere 
possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. Sch. Comm. of 
Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. Sch. Comm. of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 
352 (1983); OML 2012-5.8  
 
 
7 At the time of the meetings at issue in this complaint the chair of the Committee was Chris Ryan. Mr. Ryan no 
longer serves on the Committee.  
8 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is to “discuss the reputation, 
char
acter, physical condition or mental health . . . of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). When a public body plans to convene in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of the discussion must 
“be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session,” and may cause the discussion to be held in open session rather than executive session. 
Id. The individual also has certain rights, including the right to be present during the executive 
session; to have counsel or another representative present; to speak on their own behalf; and to 
cause an independent record of the executive session to be created. Id. When a discussion may 
properly be held under multiple executive session purposes, a public body may choose which 
executive session purpose or purposes to cite. See OML 2019-164; OML 2012-53. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the “primary purpose” for the Committee’s executive 
sessions held on January 18, January 25, and February 8 was “to discuss the discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
or individual.” Therefore, the complaint asserts, the Committee was required to cite to executive 
session Purpose 1 and to provide Dr. Easy with notice of the executive sessions. The complaint 
further alleges that discipline of an employee may only be discussed in executive session under 
Purpose 1. In response, the Committee asserts that its discussions in all three executive sessions 
were properly held under Purpose 3 where the discussions related to strategy regarding the 
Demand for Arbitration and a threatened, and then pending, MCAD complaint. 
 
Based on our review of the executive session minutes and the Committee’s affirmative 
and s
pecific assertions, we find that the Committee’s discussions held in executive session on 
January 18, January 25, and February 8 related to litigation strategy and were therefore 
appropriate under Purpose 3. See OML 2020-53 (discussion of placing employee on 
administrative leave appropriate for executive session under Purpose 3 where the discussion 
related to the public body’s litigating position); OML 2020-76 (“When a discussion may 
properly be held under multiple executive session purposes, the public body may choose which 
executive session purpose(s) to cite.”); OML 2019-164.  
 
II. The February 8 and March 1 Executive Session Notice Topics and Announcements 
Prior to Convening in Executive Session Were Insufficient Where They did not 
Identify the Litigation Matters to be Discussed.  
 
Prior to convening in executive session, the chair of the public body must first announce 
in open s
ession the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary . . . because that is the only notification given to the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”). The same level of detail must be included on the notice for the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2018-80. When convening in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matters to be discussed, if 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. See OML 2016-12; OML 2013-97. 
Although we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such 
information would compromise the purpose for the executive session, a public body must be able 
to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
 
Together, the second and third complaints allege that with respect to the February 8 and 
March 1 executive sessions the Demand for Arbitration and the MCAD matter should have been 
specifically and separately identified in both the meeting notices and the announcements prior to 
convening in executive session. The Committee acknowledges that it should have identified that 
it would be discussing two separate litigation matters. However, with respect to the February 8 
executive session, the Committee asserts that the Demand for Arbitration and the draft MCAD 
complaint were not “public documents” because the Demand for Arbitration had been filed with 
the American Arbitration Association and the draft MCAD complaint had be sent to the 
Committee’s attorney confidentially by Dr. Easy’s attorney. The Committee further explains that 
it “made the judgment that disclosure of the specific details of the litigation matters at that time 
would compromise the purpose for the executive session, which was to allow the Committee to 
discuss strategy related to these matters confidentially without premature public disclosure.”  
 
 When meeting in executive session under Purpose 3, the purpose of the executive session 
is t
o protect the public body’s litigating position, in general vis-à-vis opposing parties to the 
litigation, not to keep confidential from the public the existence of the litigation matters or to 
avoid the inconvenience of public scrutiny. See OML 2020-68 (explaining that “[t]he Open 
Meeting Law does not give a public body broad discretion to withhold the nature of executive 
session discussions or the identity of the bargaining unit to be discussed simply because the topic 
is controversial or it would be inconvenient for the public body,” and further explaining that to 
justify nondisclosure of this information the public body must show a reasonable basis for 
believing that disclosure would have had a detrimental effect on its bargaining position); OML 
2020-158 (explaining that when convening under G.L. 30A, §§ 21(a)(6) the purpose “is to 
protect a public body’s negotiating position vis-à-vis the other party(s) to a transaction, not to 
escape the inconvenience of public scrutiny.”). Here, Dr. Easy was certainly aware that he had 
filed a Demand for Arbitration and threatened to file a complaint with MCAD. The Committee 
has not made a sufficient showing that identifying the specific litigation matters to be discussed 
in executive session would have jeopardized its litigating position, and we doubt that it could 
where Dr. Easy was already aware of the matters. See OML 2020-53; OML 2021-75, n. 2; OML 
2019-86. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
identify the specific litigation matters to be discussed in executive session on February 8 and 
March 1.  
 
 Next, 
with respect to the arbitration, the complaints allege that the Committee should 
have additionally identified whether the arbitration was ongoing or anticipated and whether it 
concerned a collective bargaining issue. With respect to the MCAD complaint, the complaints 
allege that the Committee should have additionally identified whether this was a litigation matter 
previously discussed at a meeting or a new matter. The Complainant asserts that without this 
additional information “the public is left completely in the dark about a succession of [three and 
four] executive sessions.” We do not find that the level of detail the Complainant demands here 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
was required. Had the Committee sufficiently and separately identified the two litigation matters 
this would have sufficed to inform the public of the matters to be discussed in executive session. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to sufficiently identify, both in the notices and in the open session announcements, the 
litigation matters to be discussed in executive session on February 8 and March 1. We find that 
the Committee did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation 
of the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Erin Gibbons, Chair, Wayland School Committee  
(via email: erin_gibbons@waylandps.org) 
Wayland School Committee (via email: school_committee@waylandps.org) 
Trudy Reid, Town Clerk (via email: treid@wayland.ma.us) 
George Harris (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
