===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 28, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 54 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Deborah Phillips, Esq.  
Nickless, Phillips & O’Connor 
625 Main Street 
Fitchburg, MA 01420 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Phillips: 
This office received a complaint from Lyndsy Butler on September 30, 2020, alleging 
that the Ashburnham Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed via email with the Town Clerk and the 
Board’s Chair on August 31, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
September 30.1, 2 In her complaint, Ms. Butler alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting via email. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
impermissibly deliberating outside of a posted meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s 
request for further review. We also reviewed emails that Ms. Butler provided to us, which she 
had received in response to a public records request.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. Thus, any two 
members constitute a quorum for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.3  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We remind the Board of its obligation to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days of 
receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our Office. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). 
3 A “quorum” is defined as “a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a 
general or special law, executive order, or other authorizing provision.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On July 22, the Ashburnham Library Director received a letter from a Staff Attorney at 
the Freedom from Religion Foundation complaining that an interactive display in the Library’s 
playground depicted the Biblical story of Noah’s Ark. The letter asserted that this display 
constituted impermissible religious speech on government property. The Library Director 
forwarded the letter to the Town Administrator on the same day, stating that the playground was 
on Town property, not Library property.  
On July 23, the Town Administrator emailed all three members of the Board asking for 
the Board’s approval of the Town Administrator’s plan to cover up the Noah’s Ark pictures on 
the playground. Later that morning, Board Member Rosemarie Meissner replied all to the Town 
Administrator agreeing with the plan to take down the display. Around 2:00 P.M., Board 
Member Bill Johnson also replied to the whole Board and Town Administrator, stating, “I’m 
good with removal as well.” On July 28, the Town painted over the Noah’s Ark picture on the 
playground display.  
On July 29, the Ashburnham Town Administrator replied to the Freedom from Religion 
Foundation, copying the Library Director, and the Board’s Chair and Executive Assistant, stating 
that the Town had painted over the pictures of the Noah’s Ark story with white paint.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication from one 
public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if 
no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144.4 
On July 23, Member Meissner and Member Johnson both replied-all to the Town 
Administrator agreeing with the plan to take down the display. The emails were “written 
communications” sent to more than a quorum of the Board, as they were sent to all members of 
the Board. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In order to determine whether these two emails constituted 
deliberation, we must determine whether the issue of the Noah’s Ark pictures on a Town 
playground was a matter of “public business within [the Board’s] jurisdiction.” Id.; see also 
OML 2011-35. The Board argues in its response to the complaint that the Town Administrator, 
as the Town’s chief executive officer, had authority over the Town playground and that the 
Board had no authority over the decision to cover the pictures. We find this argument unavailing. 
As the Town’s executive authority, a Select Board has broad jurisdiction over matters of policy 
in a town. See OML 2016-119; OML 2011-16. The issue of what to do with the Noah’s Ark 
pictures on a Town playground was a topic on which the Board could, and in fact did, provide 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
guidance to the Town Administrator. We conclude that the two emails were on a matter of public 
business within [the Board’s] jurisdiction. Therefore, we find that the Board’s emails regarding 
this matter constituted impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting, in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 Finally, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. Here, the Board has not previously been warned that deliberation via email 
violates the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we find no specific evidence that the Board acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirements. Therefore, we decline to find an intentional 
violation. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
impermissibly deliberating outside of a posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 In addition, we order the Board to publicly release the July 23 chain of emails which 
includes the deliberative emails within 30 days of receipt of this determination if it has not 
already done so. The Board may publicly release the emails by reading their content during a 
meeting and listing the emails in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the emails during a 
meeting and posting the emails along with the minutes on the municipal website. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Lyndsy Butler (via e-mail:  
 Ashburnham Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Leo Janssens (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 