===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 98 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Charles Kilb 
Senior Board Counsel 
Division of Occupational Licensure 
Office of Legal Counsel 
charles.g.kilb@mass.gov 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kilb: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alan Dias on January 10, 2024, alleging that the 
Board of Building Regulations and Standards’ (the “Board”) Building Official Certification 
Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about November 20, 2023,
1 and Board 
Counsel Patricia LaFore responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated December 14. The 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s November 7 meeting included 
insufficiently specific topics.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for the Committee’s 
November 7 meeting. We also communicated with Attorney Kilb3 via email and reviewed the 
 
1 All dates are in 2023 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also states that the Complainant was not recognized by the Chair during the November 7 meeting 
and that an individual did not receive sufficient notice of the meeting. We understand these assertions to be included 
as additional information and not as additional allegations. However, to the extent they are intended as additional 
allegations, we decline to review them because, even if true, they would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2021-92; OML Declination 9-4-2012 (Cambridge Historical Commission).  
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Final Decision and Order in the matter of Robert Piccirilli v. James Perry, Docket No. BOCC 4-
2023. 
 
FACTS 
 
By way of background, the Committee was established “to advise and to recommend to 
the [Board] on all items relating to the certification of building officials, including . . . [h]earing 
complaints and appeals pertaining to inspector certification.” 780 CMR § 110.R7.1.5. 
Complaints concerning certified building officials are first submitted to an administrator who 
“may cause the complaint to be . . . referred to the [Committee] for a hearing on the merits,” id. 
at 4.1.1., and such hearings “shall be conducted in accordance with M.G.L. c. 30A and 801 CMR 
1.02.” Id. at 4.1.3. After holding a hearing, the Committee issues a written decision, which serves 
as a recommendation to the Board. The Board may then either adopt the Committee’s 
recommendation, adopt and amend the recommendation, reject the recommendation, or remand 
the matter back to the Committee. Id. at 4.1.4. A decision made after a hearing is considered final 
when it is issued by the Board, and “[a]ny party aggrieved by a final decision of the [Board] may 
appeal to superior court . . . pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, §14.” Id. at 4.1.6. 
 
Robert Piccirilli, the former building official for the Town of Halifax, filed a complaint 
alleging that James Perry, the individual hired by the Town to replace Mr. Piccirilli, had acted as 
building commissioner for the Town when he was not certified as a building commissioner. On 
October 3, the Committee held an adjudicatory hearing regarding the complaint. During the 
hearing the Committee heard from Mr. Piccirilli, Mr. Perry, and Mr. Perry’s legal counsel. The 
Committee also permitted Mr. Perry’s legal counsel to submit a supplemental memorandum after 
the hearing.     
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 7. The notice 
included several topics for discussion and at the bottom included the following: 
 
13) Closed Session- re: JP per MGL c.112 s.65C 
14) Closed Session- re: JL per MGL c.112 s.65C 
15) Closed Session- re: AM per MGL c.112 s.65C.
4  
 
Attorney Kilb, who was present for the November 7 closed session, has explained that the 
only matters discussed by the Committee during the closed session were whether to investigate 
the complaint against Mr. Perry further or issue a decision, and what sanction to order. Attorney 
Kilb further explained that due to the deliberations concerning the complaint against Mr. Perry, 
the Committee did not in fact discuss the other two matters identified on the meeting notice for 
closed session.
5 
 
4 We have explained that meetings held pursuant to G.L. c. 112, § 65C are not subject to the Open Meeting Law, but 
not because they fall within the Open Meeting Law’s quasi-judicial exception. Rather, G.L. c. 112, § 65C explicitly 
exempts from the Open Meeting Law “[m]eetings of the boards held for the purpose of conducting investigative 
conferences prior to the issuance of an order to show cause or for purposes of discussing the terms of a negotiated 
settlement of a complaint against a licensee.” See OML 2013-58; OML 2014-99. 
5 We note that the meeting minutes provided to our office by the Committee suggest that these two matters may 
have been discussed on November 7. The Committee may want to amend the minutes of its November 7 meeting to 
eliminate any confusion.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
Ultimately, the Committee decided to issue a decision finding that Mr. Perry “was 
unauthorized to act in the capacity which he was hired for[, that] he was aware he was 
unqualified yet acted in contravention of the Committee’s regulations[,]” and that he had failed 
to comply with continuing education requirements. The Committee ordered that Mr. “Perry’s 
certification as a local inspector be subject to a one year stayed suspension,” and that Mr. Perry 
complete an additional 12 continuing education units. The Final Decision and Order was issued 
on January 12, 2024. Mr. Perry did not appeal. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of a meeting, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics 
must have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015- 35.
6 
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as a “deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. However, the Law 
establishes several exceptions to this definition, stating that “‘meeting’ shall not include: . . . (d) 
a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of making a decision 
required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it . . . .” Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice topics “Closed Session- re: JP per MGL c.112 
s.65C”; “Closed Session- re: JL per MGL c.112 s.65C”; and “Closed Session- re: AM per MGL 
c.112 s.65C” violated the Open Meeting Law where they lacked sufficient specificity to inform 
the public of the anticipated nature of the discussions to be held. When a state quasi-judicial 
public body convenes for the sole purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory 
proceeding, it is not holding a “meeting” subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2013-104. Where the closed session at issue was held for the sole 
purpose of the Committee making a decision in an adjudicatory proceeding before it, we find that 
the closed session portion of the November 7 meeting was not subject to the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2015-103; OML 2021-64; cf. OML 2023-104 
(“When a public body does not actually discuss a topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice.”). Therefore, notice of the closed session 
did not have to comply with the notice requirements of the Open Meeting Law and the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
 
 
 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee, the Board, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Giampietro, Chair, Building Official Certification Committee  
(via email: BOCC-MA@mass.gov)  
Alan Dias (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
