===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
February 6, 2014 
OML 2014-8 
Bruce Turner 
Chair 
Egremont Select Board 
P.O. Box 368 
Egremont, MA 01258-0368 
Dear Mr. Turner: 
This office received two complaints from Kevin Zurrin (the complainant) on October 7, 
2013 and December 6, 2013 alleging that the Egremont Select Board (the Board) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the first complaint alleges that the 
Board forbade the complainant to make a video recording of its September 9, 2013, meeting 
because he had not notified the Chair of his intention to record prior to the meeting. The second 
complaint alleges that the Board forbade him to make a video recording of its September 13, 
2013 meeting due the same lack of timely notification and eventually ejected him from the 
meeting unlawfully because the Chair determined he was disrupting the meeting. The first 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 10, 2013, and the Board responded 
by letter dated September 23, 2013. The second complaint was originally filed with the Board 
October 10, 2013 and the Board responded by letter dated October 22, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
requiring the public to provide notice of intent to record prior to its September 9, 2013 and 
September 13, 2013 meetings. To make this determination, we reviewed the September 10,2013 
complaint; the Board's September 23, 2013 response; and the complaint filed with our office on 
October 7, 2013.1 Additionally, we reviewed the October 10, 2013 complaint; the Board's 
October 22, 2013 response; and the complaint filed with our office December 6, 2013. We also 
viewed a video recording made by the complainant at the Board's September 13, 2013 meeting 
as well as audio recordings of both the September 9, 2013 and September 13, 2013 meetings, 
which were provided by the Board. Finally, we spoke by telephone with the complainant in 
November 2013. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. At the Board's September 9, 2013 meeting, the Board 
engaged in a conversation with members of the public about procedures to record a meeting 
For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
under the Open Meeting Law and to add an item to the agenda. During this conversation, the 
Chair maintained the position that the Open Meeting Law requires that notification of intent to 
record a meeting may be given only prior to the start of a meeting. The Chair further stated that 
those who did not notify him before the meeting began would not be allowed to record. As a 
result of this announcement, those in the audience, including the complainant, who had not 
informed the Chair of their intent to record prior to the start of the meeting, ceased recording 
under the belief that such recording was in violation of the Law. The September 10, 2013 
complaint followed this meeting. 
At the beginning of the Board's September 13, 2013 meeting, the complainant held up his 
phone to make a video recording of the proceedings. The Chair, noticing this act, asked that the 
complainant discontinue filming the meeting because the complainant had not notified the chair 
before the meeting of his intention to film, as discussed at the September 9, 2013 meeting. The 
complainant refused by stating that he was acting in conformity with the law. During the 
ensuing discussion, the Chair determined that the complainant was causing a disruption. The 
Chair ordered the complainant to withdraw from the meeting. The complainant's refusal 
prompted the Chair to authorize a police officer to remove him. The police officer escorted the 
complainant from the meeting. The October 10, 2013 complaint followed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that, "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). The chair has the 
authority to set "reasonable requirements ... as to the number, placement and operation of 
equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting," but may not prohibit 
individuals from recording if the recording itself does not disrupt the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(e), (f); see OML 2013-81; OML 2012-24.2 Additionally, if the chair has been notified that a 
person is recording or transmitting the meeting, he must inform meeting attendees of that fact at 
the beginning of the meeting. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(e). 
The complaints allege that the Board unlawfully prohibited the complainant from video-
recording its September 9, 2013 and September 13, 2013 meetings. Recordings of the two Board 
meetings demonstrate that the Chair enforced a policy requiring any person wishing to record the 
meeting to notify him in advance of the start of the meeting. After this policy was conveyed to 
the complainant during the September 9, 2013 meeting, he understood that, because he had not 
informed the Chair prior to the meeting, he was not permitted to record and he therefore ceased 
recording. 
In the time after that meeting and before the September 13, 2013 meeting, the 
complainant came to the conclusion that the Chair was in error. At the September 13, 2013 
meeting, he again attempted to record the meeting. The Chair challenged the complainant's right 
to record and the complainant defended his actions as lawful. The Chair determined that his 
defense was disruptive to the meeting and authorized a police officer to eject the complainant. 
2 OML Determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
While the chair of a public body may request, as a courtesy, that individuals notify him of 
their intent to record a meeting prior to the beginning of that meeting, advance notice is not 
required by law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e); OML 2012-24. The chair must inform meeting 
attendees at the beginning of the meeting of any recordings of which he is aware. Id. A 
member of the public or press who fails to notify him before the meeting, however, does not lose 
the right to record or transmit that meeting. If a person wishes to record a meeting but has not 
notified the chair of that intention prior to the meeting's commencement, that person should 
attempt to do so prior to beginning recording, ideally in a manner that does not significantly 
disrupt the meeting in progress (such as passing a note for the chair to the Board administrator 
or secretary). The chair should endeavor to acknowledge such attempts at notification and 
announce the fact of any recording to those in attendance. The failure to provide advance notice, 
however, may not be used to prohibit a person from recording or transmitting a meeting. 
We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by its insistence on 
advance notice of recording. Additionally, we find that because the complainant had a right to 
record the September 13, 2013 meeting, it was improper for the Chair to have him removed from 
the meeting for defending his right to do so. Instead, the Chair should have notified the 
attendees of the meeting that the meeting was being recorded and continued the business of the 
Board. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by requiring notice of recording 
from an individual before the start of an open meeting. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
We now consider this matter resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions about this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Kevin Zurrin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 