===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
June 25, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 76 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Stephen Pfaff, Esq. 
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
spfaff@lccplaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Pfaff: 
 
On November 8, 2019,
1 this office received a complaint filed by Attorney Patrick Bryant, 
alleging that the Blackstone Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 9, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 30. The complaint alleges that 
on September 24 the Board discussed in executive session topics related to Attorney Bryant’s 
client, a Blackstone Police Officer (the “Officer”), without providing the Officer with individual 
notice as required under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  
  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Board’s response, the request for further review, the meeting minutes for the Board’s 
September 24 executive session, a complaint filed by the Officer in United States District Court, 
and the defendants’ answer to that complaint. We also communicated with counsel for the Board 
by email and telephone.
2 
 
FACTS  
 
We find the facts as follows. At some point in July, the Officer took steps to apply for 
injured-on-duty (“IOD”) benefits, based on an assertion that he had suffered injury as a result of 
working conditions and treatment by individual police department employees and therefore was 
unable to perform his duties. Thereafter, Blackstone Chief of Police Gregory Gilmore requested 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
that the Officer submit a report outlining his injuries. In an undated report, the Officer outlined 
various incidents of harassment, retaliation, and conflict that he claims caused him to develop 
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, making it impossible for him to continue working in the 
environment unless and until conditions changed. After reviewing the allegations of harassment 
in the Officer’s report, counsel for the Board believed that the Officer was laying the 
groundwork for a discrimination claim.  
 
Counsel explains that it is the Town’s practice to investigate all allegations of 
harassment. To that end, the Board engaged an investigator to investigate the allegations of 
harassment and retaliation contained in the Officer’s report. On September 24 the Board met in 
executive session to “[r]eview . . . completed investigative report regarding discussion of strategy 
with respect to threatened/imminent claims pursuant to G.L. c. 151B pursuant to c. 30A, section 
21(a)(3)(Police Department).”
3 The executive session minutes have not been released to the 
public; therefore, we only summarize their content here. During the September 24 executive 
session, the Board discussed the results of the investigation and whether the investigation found 
the claims of harassment and retaliation asserted in the Officer’s report to be supported. On 
March 12, 2020, the Officer filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the District of 
Massachusetts naming Chief Gilmore and the Town as defendants. Tappan v. Town of 
Blackstone et al., No. 20-40028-TSH (D. Mass. Mar. 12, 2020). The lawsuit includes claims of 
retaliation under 42 U.S.C. § 1983, infliction of emotional distress, defamation, and violation of 
G.L. c. 149, § 185(b)(1). The lawsuit cites several of the same incidents raised in the Officer’s 
report. 
 
DISCUSSION  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any one or more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(a)(1). Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, including the right to 
individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or her behalf, to have 
counsel present, and to record the executive session.  
 
 
3 We remind the Board that before entering into executive session, it must first convene in open session to perform 
all procedural steps required for entering into executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Specifically, before entering 
executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called; must make the required 
statement under Purpose 3 that holding the discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Board’s 
litigating position; and must state whether the meeting will reconvene in open session after the executive session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).   
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
A public body may also enter into executive session to “discuss strategy with respect to . . 
. litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the . . . litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares” (“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Purpose 3 offers 
the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not 
sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 
(1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 
2019-164; OML 2012-5.4  
 
When a discussion may properly be held under multiple executive session purposes, the 
public body may choose which executive session purpose(s) to cite. For example, where a 
discussion may properly be held under Purpose 1 or Purpose 3, a public body may choose to hold 
its discussion under Purpose 3, in which case the public body is not required to afford the subject 
of the discussion the rights granted under Purpose 1. See OML 2019-164; OML 2012-53. The 
Complainant argues that if a discussion would be appropriate under Purpose 1 and Purpose 3 a 
public body must comply with the requirements of both purposes. The Complainant cites OML 
2016-64 to support this contention. The Complainant’s argument is not supported by OML 2016-
64.  Rather, in OML 2016-64 we found that the public body violated the Open Meeting Law 
where 1) it held discussions in executive session that were entirely inappropriate for executive 
session, and 2) it held discussions in executive session that were only appropriate under Purpose 
1, but failed to post notice for a Purpose 1 discussion or comply with any of the requirements of 
Purpose 1.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee met in executive session to discuss “the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health of [the Officer] and/or discipline or 
dismissal of [the Officer] and/or complaints or charges concerning [the Officer] without 
providing [the Officer] with notice under Chapter 30A, section 21.” The Complainant further 
argues that no claims under G.L. c. 151B were threatened or imminent, and therefore the Board 
was not justified in meeting in executive session under Purpose 3.  
 
After review of the executive session minutes and discussion with the Board’s counsel, 
we find that the September 24 discussion related to litigation that the Board reasonably believed 
was clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. The Board asserts that 
statements contained in the Officer’s report caused it to believe that the Officer intended to 
pursue a complaint of discrimination. A written communication that either explicitly or 
implicitly threatens litigation may provide sufficient basis for a public body to reasonably 
believe that litigation is imminently threatened. See OML 2016-6; OML 2012-76; OML 2012-5; 
OML 2014-134. Here, although the Officer’s report contained no explicit threats to file a claim 
with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (“MCAD”) or in federal court, it 
did contain several allegations of harassment and retaliation. Based on the totality of the 
circumstances, we find that the Board genuinely believed that the Officer’s report was intended 
to lay the groundwork for litigation and that this belief was reasonable.5 This belief was proven 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 We have previously stated that MCAD adjudicatory hearing procedures closely resemble traditional litigation, and 
therefore matters before MCAD constitute pending litigation. See OML 2020-53; OML 2015-13. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
accurate when the Officer indeed filed a lawsuit in federal court against Chief Gilmore and the 
Town several months later, citing to several of the same incidents raised in the Officer’s report. 
That the Officer later filed a lawsuit is not in and of itself evidence that the Board’s belief in 
September that litigation was imminently threatened was reasonable; however, it does provide 
support to the Board’s position that it perceived the Officer’s report as imminently threatening 
litigation, even though the report did not explicitly threaten litigation. See OML 2012-5. 
Considering the totality of the circumstances, we find that the Board properly met in executive 
session under Purpose 3 to discuss strategy with respect to litigation the Board reasonably 
believed was clearly and imminently threatened.6  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it met in executive session under Purpose 3 on September 24. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Blackstone Board of Selectmen c/o Daniel Keyes, Town Admini strator (via e-mail: 
dkeyes@townofblackstone.org) 
Patrick Bryant  (via e-mail: pbryant@pylerome.com) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
6 We note that while we find the Board’s executive session discussion of the investigative report to have been related 
to litigation strategy in this instance, it is not the case that any investigation initiated by the Town would 
automatically fall within Purpose 3 or any other executive session Purpose. We remind the Board that the ten 
executive session Purposes are narrowly construed, and that any discussion held in executive session must strictly 
fall within one of the ten purposes. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641-42 (2008); OML 2014-42; 
OML 2019-170. 
