===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 25, 2011 
OML 2011 - 19 
James Cornwell 
Chairman 
Orange Cemetery Commission 
6 Prospect St. 
Orange, MA 01364 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cornwell, 
This office received a complaint from Mr. David Shepardson on November 8, 2010 
alleging that the Orange Cemetery Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 22, by failing to release executive session minutes where the purpose for 
keeping those minutes confidential no longer exists. Specifically, the complaint seeks the release 
of minutes for the Commission's July 29, 2010 meeting and alleges that, "the open meeting law 
required that once the reason for the executive session meeting was concluded the meeting 
minutes were public information." The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on 
October 12, 2010. We also received a response to the original complaint from the Commission 
dated October 22, 2010. 
Under the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General has responsibility for investigating 
this matter. While the complaint seeks the release of both the June 17, 2010 executive and July 
29, 2010 executive session minutes, we understand that the June 17, 2010 minutes have been 
released, thus the only issue remaining for our consideration is the release of the July 29, 2010 
minutes. 
In order to resolve this complaint, we reviewed the executive session minutes of the 
Commission's July 29, 2010 meeting. Additionally, we spoke by phone with you on January 3, 
===PAGE 2===
2011 regarding the nature of the executive session. We also spoke by phone with Town 
Administrator Richard Kwiatkowski, who participated in the July 29, 2010 executive session, on 
March 11, 2011. 
We found that, at its July 29, 2010 meeting, the Commission voted to enter executive 
session, "to conduct a collective bargaining session, [as] an open session will have a detrimental 
effect and further details would compromise the reason for going into executive session." The 
executive session minutes reflect that the Commission met with union representatives and 
discussed several issues related to cemetery staffing. From conversations with you and with 
Town Administrator Kwiatkowski, we understand the issue that was the subject of the 
negotiation between the union, SEIU Local 888, the Town, and the Commission remains 
unresolved. We were told that the issue may be resolved by a collective bargaining agreement 
subject to approval at a Town Meeting scheduled for June 2011. 
The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to enter executive session for one of ten 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. Executive session minutes, "may be withheld from disclosure to 
the public in their entirety...as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer." Id. at 22(f). When a public body enters executive session 
under purpose two — to conduct collective bargaining sessions — "the minutes, preparatory 
materials and documents and exhibits used at the session may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety, unless and until such time as a litigating, negotiating or bargaining 
position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure, at which time they shall be disclosed." Id. 
Both you and Town Administrator Kwiatkowski have attested that the collective 
bargaining issues discussed at the July 29, 2010 executive session remain unresolved, and that no 
collective bargaining agreement has been reached. Town Administrator Kwiatkowski 
additionally asserted that the bargaining position of the Commission and the Town would be 
jeopardized by disclosure of the minutes at this time. We've been given no reason to doubt these 
assertions. 
However, we note that the minutes have now been withheld from public disclosure for 
ten months. The longer the minutes remain undisclosed, the heavier the burden on the 
Commission to prove that the executive session purpose remains. Town Administrator 
Kwiatkowski has stated that the collective bargaining issue may be addressed at a Town Meeting 
scheduled for June 2011, at which time the Commission may be able to release the minutes of 
the July 29, 2010 meeting. At that time, the minutes will have been withheld from the public for 
almost a year. We strongly encourage the Commission to release the minutes as soon as doing 
so will no longer jeopardize their negotiating or bargaining position. If the minutes are not 
released following the June Town Meeting, we may review this matter again in the future. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerel 
For the reasons explained above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, and 
consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this determination, please do 
not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
,Jonathan Sclarsic 
/ Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: David Shepardson 
3 