===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
November 30, 2015 
OML 2015-179 
David Kowalski, Chair 
Holland Board of Health 
27 Sturbridge Road 
Holland, MA 01521 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Kowalski: 
This office received your complaint, dated May 18, alleging that the Holland Board of 
Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on April 28. The Board did not send an official response to 
this complaint, but Board member Dana Manning wrote an individual response, dated May 11. 
In your complaint, you allege that two Board members: (i) deliberated outside of a meeting to 
bring charges against you; (ii) improperly entered executive session; (iii) excluded you from an 
executive session meeting; and (iv) improperly sought to discuss Open Meeting Law violations 
in executive session.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint; Ms. Manning's May 11 response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a Board 
meeting held on April 23. Finally, we reviewed an e-mail sent by former Board member 
Kenneth Ference, dated August 4. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body. At all times 
relevant to this complaint, the Board consisted of Mr. Ference, Ms. Manning, and Mr. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 In your request for further review, you make allegations not contained in the original complaint—namely, that the 
April 23 minutes contain inaccuracies. We decline to review this allegation, as it was not raised in the initial 
complaint filed with the Board. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2014-81; OML 2013-147. 
3 Because the make-up of the Board has changed since the events at issue here, it was difficult for our office to 
contact the then-members. This caused some delay in the preparation of this letter. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
Kowalski.4 On April 23, the Board held a joint meeting with the Board of Selectmen. The 
meeting notice stated that the Board would discuss, among other items, several Open Meeting 
Law complaints against Mr. Kowalski. Each Open Meeting Law complaint was listed on the 
notice separately, under the heading "New Business." The last item under New Business was, 
"Executive Session per MGL CH 3OA sec 21(3)." 
The April 23 meeting minutes state, in pertinent part, the following: 
OML violations were not reviewed since it was already 7:40pm. They will be moved to 
May Is' (an added Friday meeting with a site inspection at Sam and a meeting to follow) 
All business not attended to was moved to next meeting in order to begin the Executive 
Session with the BOS per agenda. 
Ken Ference read the following statement: 
"[Pursuant] to MGL 30A sec 21(3), (5) We will move into executive session for 
discussion relative to litigation and also to discuss the filing of criminal complaints or 
criminal misconduct. The BOH will not reconvene the open meeting after the [ejxecutive 
session." 
Executive session was never voted on or moved into. Instead the gallery erupted in 
argument over the reason to move into executive session. Some falsely believed that a 
BOH cannot have an executive session, that only Select [BJoards can have executive 
sessions... 
The meeting came to a complete and total standstill[.] [FJinally everyone... under the 
impression that there was to be an [o]pen meeting left. ... The BOH insisted that it was 
NEVER the intention to have anything but an executive session to address litigation 
issues. 
The two members of the BOS said they did not feel comfortable having an executive 
session meeting. Then, after 17 minutes of disagreement over the posted agendas and the 
purpose of the scheduled joint meeting, the meeting was adjourned. No executive session 
took place. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
A public body may meet in closed, executive session, provided that certain procedural 
steps take place. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). The body must first convene in open session; the body 
must obtain a majority vote to enter executive session, with the roll call vote recorded in the 
minutes; the chair must state the purpose for executive session, stating all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the puipose for the executive session; and the chair must state 
whether the meeting will reconvene in open session following the executive session. Id 
Here, because the Board abandoned its effort in the face of public opposition, no 
executive session was convened. The minutes show that no vote to enter executive session took 
place. Instead, when the topic of entering executive session was broached, the meeting devolved 
into disorder. The complaint alleges that Board members Manning and Ference improperly 
entered executive session and improperly sought to exclude Mr. Kowalski, a Board member, 
from the executive session. As stated both above and in the minutes, no executive session took 
place. Accordingly, there was no Open Meeting Law violation regarding improperly entering 
executive session, nor excluding any Board member from executive session. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board of the necessary procedures for entering executive session. 
The complaint also alleges that Ms. Manning and Mr. Ference discussed matters within 
the Board's jurisdiction—that is, whether to bring charges against Mr. Kowalski—outside of an 
open meeting. In support of this allegation, the complaint states that during the unsuccessful 
attempt to convene an executive session during the April 23 meeting, Ms. Manning stated to Mr. 
Ference, "[Mr. Kowalski] needs to leave or it won't work." We note that this comment is not 
reflected in the meeting minutes, and both Ms. Manning and Mr. Ference deny that any 
deliberation took place. Even if we were to accept that this statement was made, however, such a 
comment is not sufficient to establish that Ms. Manning and Mr. Ference engaged in improper 
deliberation. See OML 2013-145. Therefore, we find that there is insufficient evidence to show 
that the Open Meeting Law was violated in this regard. See OML 2013-166. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that Ms. Manning and Mr. Ference improperly sought to 
discuss Open Meeting Law complaints in executive session. Discussion of Open Meeting Law 
complaints may take place in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1), as a 
complaint against a public employee, or G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7), to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2015-30; OML 2013-82. Accordingly, this allegation, even if true, 
would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We also note that the Board did not respond to the present complaint in the manner 
required by law. When an individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, 
the chair "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body," and "the 
public body shall review the complaint's allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). The chair is 
required to disseminate copies and the public body must meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90. The body must 
then respond to the complaint within 14 business days of receipt. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(3). We take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
^ 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Dana Manning 
Kenneth Ference 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 