===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
October 20, 2011 
OML 2011 - 42 
Denise Karlin 
Assistant General Counsel 
Department of Early Education and Care 
51 Sleeper Street 
4th Floor 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Assistant General Counsel Karlin: 
Our office has reviewed a complaint from Margaret Ishihara dated August 10, 2011, 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Massachusetts 
Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team (the "PWT"). Specifically, 
the complaint alleges that the PWT is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and has 
violated the law by "refusing to post their agendas and open their meetings to the public." The 
complaint was first filed with the Board on July 22, 2011. The Department of Early Education 
and Care (the "Department") responded to the complaint on August 8, 2011. 
We fmd that the PWT is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus 
find no violation of the law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the July 22, 2011 
complaint, the Department's August 8, 2011 response to that complaint, and the August 10, 2011 
complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed emails sent by Department staff, provided by 
the complainant. Finally, we spoke with you in your role as Assistant General Counsel l  by 
telephone on August 25, 2011, to inquire about the specific functions of the PWT. 
FACTS 
According to the Department, the PWT was created by the Department at the suggestion 
of the Massachusetts Association of Day Care Agencies (the "MADCA") as a means for 
For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person from this point. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
Department-licensed programs to have a forum to share and discuss with key Department staff 
members the various issues facing the programs. Individuals representing a number of 
Department-licensed programs are asked by MADCA to attend the PWT meetings. The 
meetings are hosted by the Department and provide an opportunity for the PWT members to 
provide feedback to Department staff members. The staff then relays that information to the 
Commissioner of Early Education and Care. According to Assistant General Counsel Karlin, the 
PWT is akin to a focus group, and does not act collectively or take any votes. There are no 
quorum requirements and the PWT does not produce any documents or reports. The PWT does 
not have any authority to act or advise. The Department staff, does however, collect individual 
feedback from the PWT members. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. A "public body" is defined in relevant part as any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
To determine whether an entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, we 
generally consider three characteristics of all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition 
of "public body"; and 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
In considering the first characteristic, the PWT is clearly within government as it was 
created by the Department and is overseen by the Department. The PWT is an entity of the 
Department, and is thus "within" government. 
Although the PWT is an entity within government, it is not a body empowered to act 
collectively, and thus does not meet the second characteristic of a public body. The PWT is 
essentially a focus group for the Department, used to collect information from a select group of 
licensed programs. The PWT has no authority to act as a body, and cannot produce reports or 
advisory opinions. The PWT has no quorum requirement — the Department staff meet with and 
solicit feedback from whichever members show up to meetings. The Department could solicit 
the same feedback by calling or meeting with each individual PWT member, but chose for 
efficiency purposes to convene a focus group. 
The PWT, though not a body empowered to act collectively, does serve a public purpose 
as its members provide important feedback and information for the Department and the 
Commissioner to consider regarding Department-licensed programs. However, because the 
PWT is not a body empowered to act collectively, we find that it is not a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
Although the PWT is not required by the Open Meeting Law to post a meeting notice or 
open its meeting to the public, we encourage the Department to provide opportunities for the 
public to participate in information gathering that may influence policy discussions. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team is not 
a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus find no violation. We now consider 
the matter to be resolved. Please contact me if you have any questions. 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-962-2045 
cc: Margaret A. Ishihara, Esq. 
3 