===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 15,2017 
OML 2017-40 
Sammy Nabulsi 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
Boston Law Department 
Boston City Hall, Room 615 
One City Hall Square 
Boston, MA 02201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Nabulsi: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Daniel Kostrzewa, on behalf of 
Samuel D. Perry, on December 28, alleging that the Back Bay Architectural Commission's 
Violations Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about October 19, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 16.2 The complaint 
alleges that a quorum of the Committee whispered among each other during portions of its 
September 26 meeting, thereby deliberating privately. Additionally, the complaint alleges 
that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting leading up to the September 26 
meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to make some of its deliberation audible to the audience during its September 26 
meeting, but did not otherwise deliberate outside of a noticed meeting. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notices and draft minutes of the Committee's September 14 and September 26 
meetings, as well as an audio-recording and partial transcript of the Committee's hearing 
during its September 26 meeting, which the Committee provided to us.3 Finally, we spoke by 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Our office granted the Committee an extension of time to respond until November 18. 
3 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes be created and approved in a 
timely manner. See G.L. e. 30A, § 22(a). Although the Open Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we 
o 
===PAGE 2===
telephone with the three Commissioners who participated at the September 26 meeting: 
Jerome Cooper-King on January 31, 2017; Committee Chair Iphigenia Demetriades on 
February 6, 2017; and Commission Chair Kathleen Connor on February 8, 2017.4 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. The Committee is charged with reviewing and resolving 
violations of the Back Bay Architectural Commission's enabling statute. On September 14, 
the Committee held a hearing concerning purported violations at a property located at 45-53 
Hereford Street in the Back Bay.5 The hearing was held an hour prior to a regularly-
scheduled Commission meeting. Rather than posting a separate notice for the Committee, this 
hearing was listed as the first topic on the Commission's meeting notice as, "L Violations 
Hearing 4:00 P.M."6 During the hearing concerning this property, the Committee heard from 
counsel for the property owner as well as from members of the public. At the end of the 
hearing, the Committee requested that the property owner return to the Committee with a 
proposed plan for temporary landscaping to resolve the outstanding violations. 
Due to the heightened public interest of this particular matter, the Committee held a 
special hearing on September 26 in order to allow public participation. Because Committee 
members felt that the September 14 hearing had been contentious, the Committee provided 
security at the September 26 hearing. The Committee members characterized this hearing as 
contentious as well. Committee members noted to our office that members of the audience 
spoke out of turn and would not cease talking upon Ms. Demetriades' request. At one point, 
after several warnings, Ms. Demetriades recessed the meeting for the puipose of having 
security temporarily remove a member of the public from the meeting. During the hearing, 
the Committee heard from counsel for the property owner as well as from members of the 
public. The Committee discussed the proposed landscaping plan submitted by the property 
owner to resolve the violations at issue before the Committee. Ms. Connor and Ms. 
Demetriades were satisfied that the proposed plan resolved the violations, while Mr. Cooper-
King expressed dissatisfaction with the plan because he wanted the property owner to commit 
to a "more permanent plan." 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting, whenever possible. See OML 2016-166; 
OML 2014-15. 
4 Committee member Lex Stevens had recused himself from the matter, leaving the Committee without a 
quorum. Because the Committee, which is comprised of five members, had only three members serving at the 
time, Ms. Connor appointed herself to one of the vacant seats on the Committee for the purpose of achieving 
quorum at the September 26 meeting, pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Commission Bylaws, which empowers the 
Chair to appoint members to the Committee. 
5 Ms. Demetriades was not present for this hearing. 
6 The posted agenda for this hearing should have, but did not, include the address of the property under 
consideration. The Open Meeting Law requires meeting notices to include "a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(4). Topics shall 
have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature ofthe public body's discussion. See OML 2017-14; OML 
2015-35. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Then, approximately one hour and 25 minutes into the hearing, Committee members 
began to speak in hushed voices to one another. A member of the public immediately 
informed the Committee that the public needed to hear the Committee's deliberations. Ms, 
Connor responded that the Committee was "not really deliberating," but rather asking 
questions of each other and Joseph Cornish, the Commission's Director of Design Review, 
Committee members continued to whisper to each other for more than three minutes. During 
this time, the Committee turned to Mr. Cornish for answers about the proposed plan and 
guidance on how to ultimately resolve the violations. Following this discussion, the 
Committee voted to delegate the task of ultimately resolving the violations with the property 
owner to Commission staff, stipulating that the final landscaping plan must be completed by 
November 30, On October 7, Mr. Cornish issued a written Determination of Violations 
Committee that outlined the violations and the proposed plan. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based," Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L, c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the member of the 
public body. Id, 
Although we find no evidence that the Committee deliberated about 45-53 Hereford 
Street outside of a noticed meeting, we find that the Committee members improperly 
deliberated during the Committee's September 26 hearing by talking in hushed voices among 
themselves for more than three minutes. See OML 2016-140; OML 2015-139.7 The Open 
Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body (during which all deliberation takes 
place) be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-49. Access 
must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-16; OML 2013-189; OML 
2012-66; OML 2012-48. Accordingly, the Committee's discussion about the proposed 
landscaping plan, including its questions posed to staff, is a matter clearly within its 
jurisdiction on which the public had a right to observe and hear its discussions. Because a 
portion of the Committee's deliberation was entirely inaudible to the public, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www,mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
At the start of the hushed discussion, a member of the public interjected and cautioned 
the Committee from deliberating outside of the public's audible range, but the Committee 
nonetheless continued the discussion for approximately three minutes. The Committee 
members each expressed to our office that the hearing was unusual due to the public's spirited 
participation and that the Committee felt it needed to quietly discuss the solution to the 
violations without any interruption. This factor does not excuse the Committee's improper 
conduct. However, we find that the Committee's actions were the result of a serious 
misunderstanding of the law's requirements, rather than an intentional violation of the law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Taw by failing to make some of its deliberation audible to the audience during its September 
26 meeting. Although the complainant requests an order of nullification of the Committee's 
actions taken during this meeting, we decline to do so. We order the Committee's immediate 
and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order 
the Committee to include a sufficient summary of this improper discussion in its September 
26 meeting minutes. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Daniel Kostrzewa, Esq. 
Back Bay Architectural Commission's Violations Committee 
Back Bay Architectural Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 