===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 25, 2017 
OML 2017-17 
Arthur Frank, Esq. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 16, alleging 
that the Swansea Waterfront Revitalization Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about October 6, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, in a 
letter dated October 25. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Committee 
deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also spoke with you by telephone on December 1 during which you 
relayed information from the Committee. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee's charge is to research and advocate 
for solutions to revitalizing Swansea's waterfront district. At an October 3 Special Town 
Meeting, a measure to approve the Committee's proposal to revitalize the waterfront 
district failed. Days later. Chair Christopher Sampson had individual telephone 
conversations with the other Committee members to determine whether they would attend 
another Committee meeting to discuss next steps in light of the Town Meeting vote. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' 
shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that 
may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the 
members of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated by telephone about the Town 
Meeting vote on the Committee's proposal for waterfront revitalization. According to the 
Committee, the purpose and content of Chair Sampson's telephone calls to his fellow 
Committee members was for the narrow purpose of determining whether they would 
attend another Committee meeting in light of the fact that the Committee's proposal had 
been rejected at Town Meeting. Nothing else was discussed during the calls. Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee's account of events. See 
OML 2016-131.2 We find that these individual conversations between Chair Sampson and 
the Committee members were for the purpose of scheduling a meeting and, therefore, fell 
within a limited exception to the definition of "deliberation." See OML 2016-115. 
Because a quorum of the Committee did not "deliberate" outside of a posted meeting, there 
was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
2 
===PAGE 3===
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Waterfront Revitalization Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 