===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 15, 2025  
  
OML 2025 – 60 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Matthew T. Borowiec 
Chair, Lake Wyola Boating & Safety Review Committee 
Shutesbury Town Hall 
1 Cooleyville Road 
Shutesbury, MA 01072 
 
 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Borowiec:  
 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Siefert on March 11, 2025, alleging that 
the Shutesbury Lake Wyola Boating & Safety Review Committee (the “Committee”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the 
Committee on January 10, 2025, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
January 30, 2025.  The complaint alleges that a notice of the Committee’s December 11 meeting 
included the incorrect Zoom link for the meeting.1     
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way all
eged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the original and amended notices of the December 11 meeting.  We 
reviewed minutes of the meetings of December 11, 2024, January 8, 2025, and March 26, 2025.    
We also reviewed the charge of the Committee, as well as a news article “Shutesbury reviewing 
how to improve safety on Lake Wyola in wake of accident last summer,” published in the Daily 
Hampshire Gazette, April 3, 2025.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the December 11 meeting.2 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 202 4. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yjmia2s--
0Y&list=PLUyASF8dRTxvgnq3XWapQMvgBT9WDGWR5&index=8.   

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On Nove mber 13, the Committee posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on December 11 at 6:30 p.m.  The notice indicated that the meeting would be 
held virtually and included Zoom log in information.  It also provided “helpful hints,” 
encouraging attendees to prepare to join the meeting 15 minutes prior to the start time.  The 
notice was amended once on December 5.   It was further amended three times on December 11, 
at 6:14 p.m., 6:16 p.m. (“the 6:16 Notice”), and 6:30 p.m. (“the 6:30 Notice”).  The Zoom link 
included in the 6:16 Notice was different from the link included in the other notices for the 
December 11 meeting.3  
 
The meeting took place as scheduled on December 11.  After signing on, but before the 
meeting got underway, members discussed the difficulties they encountered in attempting to join 
the meeting on Zoom.  To join, members refreshed the town website on their computers and then 
clicked the link.  The complainant, who is a member of the Committee, was the last to join the 
meeting, with off-line assistance from another member.  When at last he was able to access the 
meeting at approximately 6:40 p.m., he explained that “it kept saying waiting for the host to start 
the meeting.”  The Committee did not attempt to reach members of the public who might have 
been misdirected by the 6:16 Notice to a different link, other than by posting the 6:30 Notice, 
which included the correct link.   
 
The complainant’s husband attempted to access the meeting via the link included in the 
6:16 Notice, starting at 6:25 p.m.  He reached a Zoom screen with the message “Waiting for host 
to start the meeting.”  The meeting never started for him.  After approximately 15 minutes, he 
disconnected from Zoom. 
 
The meeting was called to order at approximately 6:44 p.m.  The Committee first 
discussed a schedule of future meetings and voted to approve minutes of the prior meeting.  
Public comment followed.  The Committee then spent the bulk of the meeting discussing a Town 
of Shutesbury bylaw, Watercraft and Persons using Lake Wyola.  (The Committee is charged 
with recommending changes to the bylaw “to account for current usage patterns on the lake.”  
Any amendment of the bylaw would require a vote at annual town meeting.)  Following 
discussion of the bylaw, a member moved “to leave the bylaws the way they are.”  Further 
discussion ensued.  Some members, including the complainant, believed the motion was 
premature.  The motion passed, 5-4.  At the Committee’s next meeting, held on January 8, 2025, 
the complainant expressed concern that the Committee might have violated the Open Meeting 
Law due to insufficient notice of the December 11 meeting.  Following a brief discussion, 
member Christine Brassil moved “to revote on the issue and leave the bylaws the way they are.”  
The motion was not seconded.  
 
  
 
3 According to the complainant, the original notice, posted on November 13, did not include  a Zoom link.  By our 
reading, all notices included a link.  We need not resolve that factual discrepancy because the incorrect Zoom link 
did not make its first appearance until the third amended notice was posted approximately 15 minutes prior to the 
scheduled start time. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must contain “the date, time and place of the meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.   
 
Notice which does not clearly identify the location of a meeting does not conform to the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-39; OML 2022-120; OML 2016-38.4  Likewise, convening 
a meeting in a location other than the location stated on the meeting notice, without providing 
adequate notice to the public, violates the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-225; OML 2023-
146.  A public body is permitted to change its meeting location, even less than 48 hours prior to a 
meeting, but only if it makes reasonable efforts to notify the public of the new location.  See 
OML 2020-102; OML 2020-95; OML 2017-152.  Here, the December 11 meeting was streamed 
via the Zoom link provided in some, but not all, iterations of the notice.  At least one person 
attempted to access the meeting through the ineffectual link set out in the 6:16 Notice but 
abandoned his efforts when he was left in the waiting room.  The Committee posted the correct 
link at 6:30 p.m. (the meeting start time) but that proved too little too late to redirect all 
interested members of the public to the correct link, especially where the meeting notice 
encourages viewers to log in 15 minutes prior to the meeting, approximately the time when they 
would be directed to the ineffectual link by the 6:16 Notice.  Moreover, there was no alternative 
means by which to access the meeting.  Cf. OML 2021-98 (meeting was inaccessible on meeting 
platform but could be viewed on community television).  Under the circumstances, the 
Committee should have either provided meaningful notice to the public of the change in the link, 
or should have rescheduled the meeting.  As it did neither, it violated the Open Meeting Law.5   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by changing the location of the remote December 11 meeting without making reasonable efforts 
to notify the public of the correct Zoom link.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We commend the Committee for its commitment to 
preventing such issues from arising in the future, including by rescheduling meetings should a 
similar problem arise again, and order no further remedial action.   
 
We decline the complainant’s request that we nullify all action taken at the December 11 
meeting.  The motion on December 11 to “leave the bylaws the way they are” did not make or 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 Although we find a violation on the grounds that the Committee changed the Zoom link without making 
reasonable efforts to notify the public of the new online location, the same outcome might have been reached if the 
change in Zoom link were considered a technical difficulty.  See OML 2022-180 (Commission that experienced 
technical difficulties should have adjourned remote meeting); OML 2021-91 (Once Board learned that Zoom 
meeting reached capacity, it should have addressed the capacity issue during the meeting or adjourned to make  
reasonable efforts to accommodate the crowds through a larger capacity platform.) 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
suggest a change to the bylaw.  In essence, it maintained the status quo.  Moreover, there have 
been several opportunities since December 11, 2024, for the Committee and members of the 
public to revisit desired amendments to the subject bylaw.  At the Committee’s next meeting, 
held on January 8, 2025, Committee member Brassil moved to “revote on the issue.” The 
complainant could have, but did not, second that motion.  At its March 26, 2025, meeting, the 
Committee discussed the lack of consensus regarding the bylaw and “agreed to continue the 
dialogue.”  On March 27, the Selectboard held a public listening session, to allow the public to 
share their questions and thoughts about amendments to the bylaw.  In light of the developments 
since December 11, nullification of the actions the Committee took that evening is not warranted.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincer
ely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Thomas Siefert (via email: ) 
 Shutesbury Town Administrator (via email: townadmin@shutesbury.org) 
 Shutesbury Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@shutesbury.org) 
  
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
