===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 29, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 20 
 
VIA EMAIL ONL
 Y 
 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
kate@mtclawyers.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney McNamara Feodoroff: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on September 6, 2023,
1 alleging 
that the Stoughton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 21, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 6. The complaint alleges that the Board failed 
to timely approve minutes for meetings held on June 20 and 27, and July 5, 11, and 18.2   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made, and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Additionally, open session meeting 
minutes must be approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the 
public body can show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, 
we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See 940 CMR 
29.11(2); OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise noted. 
2 To the extent the complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve minutes for meetings held in late July 
and August, we decline to review this allegation as the complaint was not ripe with respect to the final meeting held 
in July or any of the meetings held in August.   
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board held a meeting on August 15, at which it approved minutes of meetings held 
on June 20 and 27. The Board held a meeting on September 5, at which it approved, among 
others, minutes of meetings held on July 5, 11, and 18. The Board acknowledges that it failed to 
timely approve the meeting minutes at issue in the complaint. Here, the Board approved the June 
20 and 27 meeting minutes before the instant Open Meeting Law complaint was filed. Indeed, it 
appears it was the Board’s own approval of the minutes that called attention to the timeliness of 
its approval and prompted the complainant to file this complaint; the complainant had not 
requested or otherwise expressed concern with the minutes prior to their approval. Additionally, 
in response to the complaint the Board approved the remaining meeting minutes at issue. 
Therefore, prior to the complainant seeking further review from this office all subject meeting 
minutes had been approved.  
 
In instances where all appropriate corrective action has already been
  taken, we urge 
complainants not to consume resources by filing complaints or requesting further review where 
the transparency purpose of any such complaint or review has already been addressed. Indeed, 
the Open Meeting Law complaint process is designed to allow public bodies to take corrective 
action and address concerns raised in a complaint without this office’s involvement. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b) (“At least 30 days prior to the filing of a complaint with the attorney general, the 
complainant shall file a written complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances 
which constitute the alleged violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged 
violation.”). Pursuing such complaints takes up scarce state and local resources without 
advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental transparency.  
 
 Finally, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the complainant urges, 
inte
ntional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. 
 
In 2019, we twice found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
timely approve meeting minutes. OML 2019-24; OML 2019-91. Although we have previously 
warned the Board regarding this requirement, we have not found any instances of the Board’s 
failure to timely approve meeting minutes between July of 2019 and the filing of the instant 
complaint. Additionally, we find no other evidence suggesting that the Board acted to 
intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to find the Board’s violation 
intentional in this instance and additionally decline to impose a civil penalty of $1,000.00, as the 
complainant insists we must.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely approve open session meeting minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Because all subject meeting minutes have 
been approved, we do not order further remedial action. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Debra Roberts, Chair, Stoughton Select Board (via email: droberts@stoughton-ma.gov)  
 Stoughton Town Clerk (via email: scarrara@stoughton-ma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
