===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
October 23, 2012 
OML 2012 - 105 
Scott Jenssen, Chair 
Monterey Select Board 
435 Main Rd. 
P.O. Box 308 
Monterey, MA 01245 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Jenssen: 
This office received a complaint filed by Jonathan Sylbert, dated February 9, 2012, 
alleging that the Monterey Select Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that on January 4, 2012, "Board members Wayne 
Burkhart and Scott Jenssen unintentionally deliberated and expressed their opinion, outside of 
open session, to negotiate with town employees in executive session." The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about January 9, 2012. We received the Board's response 
to the original complaint on or about January 23, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the January 9, 2012 complaint; the Board's January 24, 
2012 response; and the February 9, 2012 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the minutes of the Board's January 9, 2012 meeting. Finally, we reviewed a series of 
emails sent between the complainant and the Board's Secretary, Melissa Noe, on which Board 
members Wayne Burkhart and Scott Jenssen i  were copied. 
FACTS 
In January 2012, the Board consisted of three members: Wayne Burkhart, Scott Jenssen, 
and the complainant, Jonathan Sylbert. On January 3, 2012, Board Secretary Melissa Noe sent 
I  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
an email to the three Board members attaching the proposed agenda for the Board's January 9, 
2012 meeting. The agenda included a topic for executive session. In her email, Ms. Noe asked 
the Board members if they had anything to add to the agenda. Mr. Sylbert replied to the email, 
copying Board members Burkhart and Jenssen, stating that "I am not aware of any executive 
session, sorry..." Following this email, Ms. Noe and Mr. Sylbert exchanged emails regarding 
communication with Town Counsel and whether an executive session should be placed on the 
agenda for the Board's January 9, 2012 meeting. Although they were copied on many of the 
emails, neither Mr. Burkhart nor Mr. Jenssen replied to any of the emails between Ms. Noe and 
Mr. Sylbert. On January 4, 2012, Ms. Noe wrote in an email to Mr. Sylbert that, "I just spoke 
with both Scott [Jenssen] and Wayne [Burkhart] and both of them are fine with the negotiations 
being held in Executive Session on Monday with the understanding that after an agreement on all 
the items has been reached the minutes will then be made public." Ms. Noe explained in a 
subsequent email to Mr. Sylbert that there "was not a quorum when I spoke to Wayne and Scott 
as it was separately and on the phone as we have done on several other occasions for similar 
events like this one." 
Mr. Sylbert did not attend the Board's January 9, 2012 meeting. At the meeting, the 
Board decided not to enter executive session to negotiate with a union regarding a collective 
bargaining agreement, deciding instead to postpone the session for two weeks. Also during the 
meeting, the Board acknowledged the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by Mr. Sylbert earlier 
that day, and disclosed the communication that occurred between Ms. Noe and the Board 
members in setting the agenda. 
DISCUSSION 
The issue raised by this complaint is whether a quorum of the Board improperly 
deliberated outside of an open meeting when Ms. Noe spoke with two of the three Board 
members separately over the phone to solicit their approval to place an item on the Board's 
agenda for its January 9, 2012 meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge,  376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open 
Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." Id. The law requires that meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. A public body may enter executive session for any of ten purposes, 
including Purpose 3, which allows a public body to meet in executive session to "discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
Ms. Noe is not a member of the Board, thus her communications with a quorum of the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board's members are generally not considered deliberation. Furthermore, it is not inappropriate 
for, a public body's staff to solicit input from public body members when creating a meeting 
agenda, so long as the staff member does not facilitate serial communication between the body's 
members. 
Ms. Noe wrote in her January 4, 2012 email that she spoke with two Board members over 
the telephone and "both of them are fine with the negotiations being held in Executive Session 
on Monday with the understanding that after an agreement on all the items has been reached the 
minutes will then be made public." Contrary to the complainant's assertions, we do not believe 
that this reflects discussion by a quorum of the Board about whether to take action on a particular 
subject. Ms. Noe did not solicit pledges to vote to enter into executive session; rather she 
solicited input from Board members in creating an agenda for the meeting. While Ms. Noe's 
email did relay to a quorum of the Board the members' desire to consider a particular topic 
during the meeting, we find that the Board members who spoke with Ms. Noe were conveying 
their personal opinions to a staff member for use in formulating an agenda for the meeting, and 
did not intend their communications with her to reach a quorum of the Board. For this reason, 
we find that the communications did not violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we note 
that the Board publicly disclosed its communications with Ms. Noe during its January 9, 2012 
meeting, and ultimately decided not to enter executive session on that date. 
Although the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we note that emails sent by a 
staff member about agenda items, copying a quorum of the public body, invite comment on the 
substance of those items. 
CONCLUSION  
For the above reasons, we fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
/Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jonathan Sylbert 
cc: Jeremia Pollard 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 