===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 245 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Alexander M. Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
alex@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This letter addresses two complaints filed by Jacquelyn Wehtje alleging that the 
Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The First Complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or around 
March 17, 2024; you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated April 12; and the 
complaint was filed with this office on April 16.
1  The First Complaint alleges that the 
Commission failed to timely review executive session meeting minutes for possible release in 
response to a request, and that the Commission continues to withhold meeting minutes after the 
purpose for the executive session had ended.  The Second Complaint was originally filed with 
the Commission on or around April 16; you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter 
dated May 22; and the complaint was filed with this office on May 16.  The Second Complaint 
alleges that the Commission failed to timely respond to the First Complaint.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely review executive session meeting minutes in response to a request and by failing 
to timely respond to the First Complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Commission’s responses, the complainant’s requests for review of 
the complaints, and additional correspondence from both the complainant and your office. 
 
  
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024, unless indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
First Complaint 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
del
iberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be open to the public, except when convening in executive session.  A public body 
may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One 
permissible purpose for convening in executive session is Purpose 6, “[t]o consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6).   
 
The Open Meeting Law allows executive session meeting minutes to be withheld from 
disc
losure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session 
has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be 
disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law 
applies.  Id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at 
reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and “such 
determination shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be 
included in the minutes of that meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  In addition to the obligation 
to review executive session minutes at reasonable interviews,  
 
upon reque
st by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session 
or any portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days 
following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption 
under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body has not performed a 
review pursuant to paragraph (1), the public body shall perform the review and 
release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s 
next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).   
 
 The First Complaint alleges that the Commission did not release executive session 
minutes within 30 days of a request.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that in writing on 
February 16, 2024, the complainant requested minutes of all executive sessions held during the 
2023 calendar year, but the Commission had not responded as of the date of the complaint, 
March 17.  Upon receipt of the complainant’s request for minutes, the Commission was 
obligated to respond to the complainant within ten days and provide any executive session 
minutes that had already been approved for release.  The Commission also was obligated, no 
later than its next meeting or within 30 days of the request, whichever occurs first, to review the 
requested minutes to determine if the minutes could be released.  The Commission did not 
review the minutes until its April 2 meeting, at which time it voted to release three sets of 
executive session minutes.  As April 2 was more than 30 days following the February 16 request, 
the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Next, the First Complaint alleges that the Commission improperly continued to withhold 
minutes of 2023 executive sessions at which a concluded real estate transaction had been 
discussed.  Subsequent to the filing of the First Complaint, the Commission reviewed and 
released minutes of three executive sessions; only minutes of an April 4, 2023, executive session 
meeting continue to be withheld.  The Commission represented that, at least as of the date of the 
Commission’s response, the City of Fitchburg was still actively working to acquire the property 
that was the subject of the April 4, 2023, executive session discussions, such that release of those 
minutes would have a detrimental effect on the Commission’s negotiating position.  We are 
satisfied that the Commission permissibly withheld the minutes of its April 4, 2023, executive 
session.  We remind the Commission of its obligation to review executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals and to release the minutes of the April 4, 2023, executive session once the 
purpose for that executive session has been served.  As the minutes of the remaining 2023 
executive sessions were approved for release to the public shortly after the filing of the First 
Complaint, we do not review the status of those minutes.   
 
Second Complaint 
 
Finally, the Second Complaint alleges that the Commission failed to timely respond to 
the First Complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial 
action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The Attorney General may 
authorize an extension of time to the public body to respond to the complaint upon the written 
request of the public body and a showing of good cause.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5)(b).  The First Complaint was dated March 17, a Sunday, and emailed on that day to the 
Commission, the Commission’s legal counsel, and the city clerk; we will treat the complaint as 
received on March 18.  The Commission did not respond until April 12, which was more than 14 
business days later, and only after the complainant followed up with our office and we inquired 
of the Commission as to the status of the response.  The Commission did not request or receive 
an extension of time to respond to the complaint.  Therefore, the Commission violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to the First Complaint.
2,3   
 
  
 
2 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that it appears counsel for the Commission responded to the First 
Complaint, on the Commission’s behalf, after discussing the matter with the Commission’s chair; however, the 
Commission did not review the complaint during a meeting before counsel responded.  A public body may delegate 
authority to respond to a complaint to legal counsel or another individual, but the public body must meet to review 
the complaint before responding.  See OML 2020-164 (explaining that a public body may review the complaint at a 
meeting and then authorize a designee to prepare and send the response, or legal counsel or another individual may 
receive the complaint and draft a response for the public body to review and authorize at a meeting, but the public 
body may not remove itself entirely from the process). 
3 Although not raised in a complaint, we note that the Commission did not timely respond to the Second Complaint 
either, again responding only following an inquiry from our office.  We reiterate the obligation to timely review and 
respond to all properly filed Open Meeting Law complaints and emphasize that the failure to properly respond to an 
Open Meeting Law complaint is itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to properly respond to a request for executive session meeting minutes and by 
failing to timely respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the Open Meeting Law and may result in a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fitchburg Agricultural Commission (via email: 
AgriculturalCommission@fitchburgma.gov) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: ) 
Fitchburg City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@fitchburgma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
