===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 8, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 22 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jennifer Dopazo Gilbert, Esq. 
RLAW, P.C. 
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Dopazo Gilbert: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy Christiansen on May 12, 2021, alleging that 
the Massport Community Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
February 9, 2021, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 9, 2021. 
The complaint alleges that the Chair of the Committee created subcommittees that have failed to 
comply with the Open Meeting Law. In particular, the complaint is concerned with groups 
formed to discuss and provide suggestions to the Committee regarding flightpaths to and from 
Logan Airport. We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties as we reviewed this 
matter.   
 
Following our review, we do not find that the groups with which the complaint is 
concerned were created by the Committee or are subcommittees of the Committee subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, correspondence between the 
Complainant and Counsel for the Committee,1 and additional information submitted to our office 
by the Complainant and the Committee. We also communicated with the Complainant and with 
Counsel for the Committee via telephone and email. 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
subcommittee . . . however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to 
serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee is a “multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. When 
reviewing whether a public body created a subcommittee, our analysis hinges on the public 
body’s actions and whether it intended to create a multiple-member body. Compare, e.g., OML 
2017-111 (finding that no subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought to 
work on a matter and another board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to 
assist), with OML 2018-23 (finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple volunteers 
were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public body formally 
agreed to the arrangement).2  
 
After reviewing the information provided to our office and communicating with the 
Complainant and with Counsel for the Committee, we find no evidence that the Committee 
created the groups alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law.3 We understand that some 
members of the Committee, on their own accord, met with constituents, individually or in 
groups, as well as with elected and other government officials, to discuss concerns related to 
flightpaths arriving at and departing from Logan Airport. Some of the groups the Committee 
members met with called themselves “Municipal Working Groups.” Similar groups were formed 
on behalf of various communities impacted by Logan Airport flightpaths; this complaint 
specifically mentions groups consisting of representatives from communities on the South Shore 
and groups formed around particular flight paths such as 33L departures and 22L arrivals. After 
meeting with community groups, government officials, and others, Committee members reported 
back to the Committee to relay information and concerns they had learned from their various 
meetings. The Committee supported such work by its members and welcomed the information 
and feedback its members were able to provide due to these efforts. However, we find no 
evidence that the Committee itself created any Municipal Working Group or other group that 
appears to be the subject of this complaint. Therefore, we do not find that the groups with which 
the complaint is concerned are subcommittees subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2016-106.    
 
For the reasons stated above, we do not find that the groups with which the complaint is 
concerned were created by the Committee or are subcommittees of the Committee subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
3 We also find no evidence that a quorum, 21 members, of the Committee attended or deliberated at a meeting of any 
group alleged to have violated the Open Meeting Law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Massport Community Advisory Committee (via email:  
Cindy Christiansen (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
