===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
December 7, 2015 
OML 2015-181 
Susan M. Whalen, Esq. 
24 Russell St. 
Charlestown, MA 02129 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Whalen: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated September 16, alleging that 
the Martha's Vineyard Airport Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Commission's August 7 meeting lacked sufficient detail. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Commission on August 10. The Commission responded by letter dated September 15, 
following an extension of time granted by this office. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Commission, the 
Commission's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the 
notice for the Commission's August 7 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on 
September 15. 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Commission's August 7 meeting listed 
one topic for discussion: "Executive Session: Conduct strategy session in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel and/or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
During the meeting, the Commission entered into executive session under the noticed puipose. 
Because the Commission has not yet publicly released the minutes of the meeting, we do not 
recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during the executive session, the 
Board met with an employee to discuss a severance agreement. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). Unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the 
executive session, public bodies should state in their notice the name of the specific nonunion 
personnel with whom they will be negotiating. See OML 2015-63; OML 2013-97.2 While we 
generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
Here, the Commission asserts that publicly identifying the employee with whom the 
Commission was negotiating a separation agreement would have been detrimental to its 
negotiating position with that employee, and would thus defeat the purpose for the executive 
session. The Commission's concern was that announcing the employee's name to the public 
might have kept the employee from coming to the bargaining table. Given the sensitive nature of 
negotiating a contract for an employee's separation, we find that the Commission was justified in 
noticing the executive session topic without identifying the employee by name.3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not 
resolve any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Commission. 
Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan 
Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 We remind the Commission that while it may negotiate a separation agreement in executive session under Purpose 
2, any vote to approve or execute the final separation agreement must occur in open session. See OML 2012-66. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Martha's Vineyard Airport Commission 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 