===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 1, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 102 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michele Miller  
Chair, Monterey Finance Committee 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Miller: 
This office received nine complaints from Jon Sylbert on June 25, 2021, through March 
2, 2022, alleging that the Monterey Finance Committee (the “Committee”), violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
from June 4, 2021, through February 8, 2022. The Committee responded to each complaint via 
emails dated June 24, 2021, through March 2, 2022. In his complaints, Mr. Sylbert alleges that 
the Committee 1) posted insufficiently specific meeting notices, 2) approved inaccurate meeting 
minutes for an October 26 meeting, 3) deliberated outside of a posted meeting, and 4) improperly 
responded to three prior Open Meeting Law complaints.  
Following our review, we find that 1) the minutes of the Committee’s October 26 
meeting fail to include the time of the meeting and a list of documents used during the meeting, 
2) two members of the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting on one occasion, and 
3) the Committee’s Chair did not distribute one of Mr. Sylbert’s Open Meeting Law complaints 
to all Committee members within 14 business days of receipt. We find no violation with respect 
to the other allegations. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for further review. We 
reviewed minutes of the Committee’s October 26, November 9 and 30, and December 21, 2021, 
meetings. We also reviewed the Committee’s notices for meetings which were scheduled to take 
place on June 22 and December 14, 2021. We reviewed a video recording of the Committee’s 
October 26, 2021, meeting. Finally, we reviewed copies of several Committee emails which Mr. 
Sylbert alleges constitute deliberation outside of a posted meeting.  
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. We decline to review the January 28, 2022, complaint as it was not timely filed with the 
Committee. 
 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could 
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an 
alleged violation occurs in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at 
the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.1  
 We decline to review Mr. Sylbert’s complaint dated January 28, 2022, which alleges that 
the Committee did not vote by roll call at its November 9 and 30, 2021, meetings and approved 
inaccurate minutes for the same meetings. Any failure to vote by roll call during a meeting in 
which members participated remotely could have been discovered on the date of the meetings in 
question, November 9 and 30, 2021. In addition, as the minutes for these meetings were 
approved in open session on November 30 and December 21, 2021, respectively, each was 
approved more than 30 days before Mr. Sylbert filed his complaint on January 29, 2022. Since 
these allegations could have been discovered more than 30 days before the complaint was filed, 
we decline to review this complaint. See OML Declination 10-9-12 (Falmouth Board of 
Selectmen). 
2. As the Committee did not meet on either June 22 or December 14, 2021, we find no 
violation regarding the sufficiency of the Committee’s meeting notices for those dates.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of 
every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Id. Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. 
See OML 2015-35.  
 A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Nevertheless, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not 
listed on the meeting notice until the topic may be included on a meeting notice, unless the 
circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2013-197. 
 
1 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Here, Mr. Sylbert, who was a member of the Committee, alleges that the Committee’s 
notice for a June 22, 2021, meeting, which identified no topics to be discussed, was insufficiently 
specific. Although a notice with no listed topics likely would not meet the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law, the Committee explains that the June 22 meeting was never held. When a 
public body does not actually meet, the public body cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to an insufficiently specific notice, even if the notice would have been insufficiently 
specific had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 2021-84. We therefore 
find no violation with respect to this allegation.  
 Similarly, we find no violation regarding Member Sylbert’s allegation that the 
Committee’s notice for a December 14, 2021, meeting should have specified which meeting 
minutes the Committee anticipated approving at the meeting. As the Committee did not meet on 
that date, we find no violation. However, we take this opportunity to provide guidance to the 
Committee about the level of detail that is required in meeting notices. In particular, when a chair 
anticipates that a particular set of meeting minutes will be discussed at a meeting, the notice 
should identify the specific meeting minutes to be discussed. See OML 2021-57 (finding the 
notice topic “Review/approval of minutes from last meeting,” provided the public with sufficient 
information where it identified the specific minutes that the public body anticipated approving 
during the meeting); OML 2019-21. 
3. The minutes of the Committee’s October 26 meeting fail to include the time of the 
meeting and a list of documents used, as required by the Open Meeting Law.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2021-13; OML 2017-104. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29. 
 Member Sylbert alleges that the Committee approved inaccurate minutes for its October 
26, 2021, meeting. We reviewed a video recording of this meeting.2 Although the discussion was 
occasionally argumentative and comments were therefore overlapping, we find that the 
Committee substantially complied with the requirement that it provide an accurate and 
sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion that occurred during the October 26, 2021, 
meeting. See OML 2021-174. However, we find that the Committee failed to include the time of 
the meeting and a list of documents used during the meeting, though the Chair read a draft 
 
2 A copy of the video recording may be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DB6wZ88kHBQ 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
response to one of Member Sylbert’s prior Open Meeting Law complaints during the meeting.3 
We therefore order the Committee, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to amend the minutes 
of the October 26, 2021, meeting to include the time of the meeting and a list of all documents 
used.  
4. The Committee improperly deliberated outside of a posted meeting on one occasion.  
With a few limited exceptions, the Open Meeting Law prohibits a quorum of public body 
members from communicating on matters within the public body’s jurisdiction outside of a 
properly posted meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a 
narrow exception to the definition of “deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73. A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
The Committee is a three-member public body; therefore, two members constitute a 
quorum. On June 4, 2021, the Chair of the Committee sent an email to the other two members of 
the Committee stating:  
FYI 
I have spoken to Don Clawson and Scott Seibel of the Board of Assessors. 
Apparently they posted this as a meeting with the Finance Committee in the 
mistaken belief that Jon’s research into the Fire Co filings was as a member of the 
Finance Committee rather than a personal matter. 
This raises a number of questions which we can add to our meeting agenda. 
Michele Miller 
 
This communication is for the purpose of scheduling and does not reflect 
deliberations on the part of the Finance Committee[.] 
 
We find no violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding the Chair’s above email. In the email, 
the Chair notified two other members about a topic which would be discussed at a future 
meeting, which is specifically exempt from the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “deliberation.” 
See OML 2021-112. In particular, Chair Miller did not offer her opinion on the underlying topic. 
 
3 The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it 
is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the 
members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2017-43; OML 2014-12. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Therefore, we find that this email does not constitute deliberation, as it fits within the exception 
to the definition of deliberation for the distribution of meeting agenda information.  
 
We also find no violation of the Open Meeting Law where Chair Miller responded to 
Member Sylbert’s Open Meeting Law complaints by sending emails to the full Committee. 
Member Sylbert had filed an Open Meeting Law complaint on June 4, alleging that Chair Miller 
violated the Law. On June 15, Chair Miller sent an email to the other two members of the 
Committee, the body of which contained a response to Member Sylbert’s Open Meeting Law 
complaint. As the Open Meeting Law required Chair Miller to send a written response to 
Member Sylbert regarding his complaint, and these two members constitute a quorum of the 
Committee, we find that this email was necessitated by the Open Meeting Law, and find no 
violation. Similarly, on November 18, 2021, Chair Miller emailed the other two members of the 
Committee, as well as our office with a response to Member Sylbert’s October 29, 2021, Open 
Meeting Law complaint. We also find no violation with respect to this response to Member 
Sylbert’s complaint, which was authorized by the Committee at a meeting on November 9, 2021.  
 
Finally, we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding a July 15 email chain 
between Member Katrina Fitzpatrick and Chair Miller. In a series of four brief emails, Chair 
Miller asked Member Fitzpatrick if Member Fitzpatrick intended to attend that evening’s 
Committee meeting. After Member Fitzpatrick indicating that she planned to attend, Chair Miller 
stated, “Thanks so much...due to lack of a vote on Tuesday the Town could go into default if we 
don’t get this done[.]” To this, Member Fitzpatrick replied, “Oh goodness. Like I said, my vote 
will be yes except on the one for the Highway ot. And you have my permission to sign for me.” 
Although this exchange began as a discussion about meeting attendance—a merely 
administrative matter—one member’s statement to another in advance of a meeting as to how 
she planned to vote at the meeting constituted a communication between a quorum of the 
Committee on public business within the Committee’s jurisdiction, in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 
5. The Committee’s Chair did not disseminate copies of one of Mr. Sylbert’s Open Meeting 
Law complaints to the third Committee member within 14 business days of receipt.  
 The Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations 
require that, for local public bodies, the complainant shall file an Open Meeting Law complaint 
with the chair of the public body, who shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the members 
of the public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(3). Within 14 business days after 
receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body shall 
simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a 
description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). A public body may delegate 
authority to respond to a complaint to legal counsel or other individual such as a town 
administrator, but the public body must first meet to review the complaint. See OML 2021-198. 
 The Committee has a total of three members. Member Sylbert alleges that the Committee 
did not properly respond to two of his prior Open Meeting Law complaints, dated October 6 and 
October 29, 2021. The Chair concedes, and we find, that she did not distribute the October 6, 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
2021, complaint to the third Committee member within the required 14 business days. However, 
the Chair did distribute the October 29, 2021, complaint within the required timeframe. We 
therefore find no violation regarding the October 29, 2021, complaint.  
 Finally, Mr. Sylbert alleges that the Chair should not have responded individually to three 
complaints, dated October 6 and 29, and November 12, 2021. Regarding the complaints dated 
October 6 and November 12, 2021, the Committee voted to designate the Chair to respond to the 
complaints, which satisfied the Open Meeting Law. In the case of the complaint dated October 
29, 2021, the Committee voted to authorize the Chair and the third member to respond 
individually, as the allegations were directed to them as individuals. Although public bodies 
typically send one unified response on behalf of the public body, the October 29, 2021, 
complaint was unusual. As the complainant is a member of the Committee, and the Committee 
could not agree on how to respond to many of the allegations in this complaint, we find that the 
Chair’s efforts to respond individually to Member Sylbert, where she was authorized to do so, 
satisfied the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that 1) the minutes of the Committee’s October 26 
meeting failed to include the time of the meeting and a list of documents used during the 
meeting, 2) two members of the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting on one 
occasion, and 3) the Committee’s Chair did not distribute one of Mr. Sylbert’s nine Open 
Meeting Law complaints to all Committee members within 14 business days. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We also order the Committee, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to amend the 
minutes of the October 26, 2021, meeting to include a list of all documents used. 
 Finally, we order the Committee, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to publicly 
release the July 15 email chain between Member Katrina Fitzpatrick and Chair Miller described 
in this determination. The Committee may publicly release the email by reading its contents 
during a meeting and listing the email in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the email during 
a meeting and posting the email along with the minutes on the Committee’s website. 
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
cc: Jon Sylbert (via e-mail:  
 Monterey Town Administrator Melissa Noe (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
