===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
June 18,2018 
OML 2018-80 
Michelle Kalowski, Esq. 
Acting Chief Legal Counsel 
Massachusetts Port Authority 
One Harborside Drive, Suite 200S 
East Boston, MA 02128-2909 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Kalowski: 
This office received two complaints from Ronald Beaty, dated November 28, alleging 
that the Massachusetts Port Authority (the "Authority") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Authority on October 20 and 
October 23; and you responded, on behalf of the Authority, by letter dated November 28, 
following an extension of time granted by our office. The first complaint alleges that the notice 
for the Authority's September 20 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it failed to contain i) 
the date and time of posting, and ii) the purposes for executive session. The second complaint 
alleges that the notice for the Authority's October 19 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it 
failed to i) contain the date and time of posting, ii) the purposes for executive session, and iii) list 
an open session prior to its executive session topics. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following 
our review, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on its 
September 20 and October 19 notices the date and time that the notices were posted, and by 
failing to include sufficient detail with respect to the executive session topics on both the 
September 20 and October 19 notices. We find that the Authority did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to list an open session prior to its executive session topic on the October 
19 notice. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Authority's 
response to the complaints, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the 
notices of, and open and executive session minutes from, the Authority's September 20 and 
October 19 meetings. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on May 10, 2018. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Authority posted notice for a meeting to be held on September 20 at 9:00 A.M. The 
notice first listed Call to Order, then fourteen broad topics, under which more specific topics 
were listed for discussion. One broad topic was Executive Session, under which were listed five 
specific matters the Authority planned to discuss, including Parcel K Development, Agreement 
with the City of Chelsea, Conservation Law Foundation Agreement/Proposals, Lufthansa Claim, 
and Security Update. 
During the September 20 meeting, after discussion of its open session topics, the 
Authority approved a majority vote by roll call to convene in executive session "to consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property, specifically regarding the Parcel K 
Development, a Roseland update, and the agreement with the City of Chelsea, since a discussion 
in open session may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the Authority;" "to 
discuss litigation strategy, specifically regarding the Conservation Law Foundation 
agreement/proposals, and the Lufthansa claim, since a discussion in open session may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Authority;" and "to discuss deployment of 
security personnel or devices, or strategy with respect thereto." Chair Lewis Evangelidis stated 
that the Authority would not reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Because the 
Authority has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their 
content in detail here. However, we note that the Authority discussed each of the noticed topics. 
The Authority posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 19 at 9:00 A.M. The 
first topic on the notice was Executive Session, with "Security Update" as the specific matter the 
Authority planned to discuss. The notice then included additional topics for open session 
discussion, followed by an Executive Session at 11:40 A.M., under which were listed four 
specific matters the Authority planned to discuss, including Eversource Easement, U.S. 
Department of the Army Land Exchange/Fort Devens Improvements, South Boston Foundation, 
and Travel Ban. 
The October 19 meeting was held as planned. At 9:02 A.M., the Authority approved a 
majority vote by roll call to convene in executive session "to discuss deployment of security 
personnel or devices, or strategy with respect thereto." Chair Evangelidis stated that the 
Authority would reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session, which it did at 10:25 A.M. 
The Authority then approved minutes; discussed the Commonwealth Flats Development Area, 
the Dredging Project, reimbursement expenditures, and procurement of an energy supplier; 
authorized a wireless cell phone license agreement and construction escort support services; and 
approved the purchase of replacements parts for snow equipment and Kone Cranes. Finally, the 
Authority approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session "to consider 
the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property, specifically regarding the Eversource 
Easement, the U.S. Department of the Army land exchange/Fort Devens improvements, and the 
South Boston Foundation, since a discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the Authority;" and "to discuss litigation strategy, specifically 
regarding the Travel Ban, since a discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigating position of the Authority." Chair Evangelidis stated that the Authority would not 
reconvene at the conclusion of this executive session. Because the Authority has not publicly 
2 
===PAGE 3===
released the minutes of the executive sessions, we do not recount their content in detail here. 
However, we note that the Authority discussed the noticed topics, except the Eversource 
Easement. 
DISCUSSION 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes. Id. A public body must list anticipated discussion topics on 
a meeting notice with sufficient specificity such that a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2016-75.2 To convene in executive session, the public body must 
identify in its meeting notice the specific executive session purpose it intends to invoke to justify 
the executive session, and provide as must detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of 
the executive session discussion without compromising the purpose of the executive session. 
See OML 2016-95. Before entering executive session, the chair must also publicly announce the 
purpose for the executive session in the same level of detail. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(3); see 
also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) 
("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because 
that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). 
The complaints allege that the Authority did not offer sufficient detail in its September 20 
and October 19 notices with respect to the executive session topics. We conclude that the 
executive session topics listed on the September 20 and October 19 meeting notices were vague 
and did not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated executive session discussions. 
While the Authority identified the specific subjects for discussion, it did not identify the specific 
purposes for executive session on the notice. The Authority did announce the executive session 
purposes prior to convening in executive session during both the September 20 and October 19 
meetings, but it should have also stated on the notices the executive session purposes on which it 
planned to rely. The meeting notices therefore fell short of the requirement that the Authority 
state "all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session" will be called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-43. 
The complaints further allege that the meeting notices for both September 20 and October 
19 did not contain the date and time that the notices were posted. The date and time that the 
notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(d). Here, the notices did not include the date and time of posting and therefore we find 
a violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we understand that in response to the 
complaints the Authority now includes the date and time of posing on its notices and we 
commend the Authority for taking such remedial action. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Finally, we conclude that it was clear that an open session meeting would take place on 
October 19 following the 9:00 A.M. executive session as the full notice provided context placing 
the executive session as a topic for discussion during an otherwise open meeting. When the only 
business to be discussed during an open session are the procedural requirements for entering 
executive session, we have written that public bodies must list "Open Session" on the meeting 
notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public body 
will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; OML 
2012-68. Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to 
attend and leam the reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. However, where 
additional open session topics are included in a meeting notice, as was the case here, we have not 
required that a public body list "Open Session" as a distinct topic. See OML 2015-157; OML 
2015-110; OML 2015-105. We therefore find that the Authority was not required to list "Open 
Session" in its October 19 meeting notice, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting 
this statement. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on its 
September 20 and October 19 notices the date and time that the notices were posted, and by 
failing to include sufficient detail with respect to the executive session topics on both the 
September 20 and October 19 notices. We order immediate and future compliance with the 
law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority. Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
KerryArine Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 