===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
M^URA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.inass.gov/ago 
December 8, 2015 
OML 2015-184 
David Gay, Esq, 
Town Counsel, West Bridgewater 
P.O. Box 988 
Taunton, MA 02379 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Attorney Gay: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney John Michael Dupuis on August 21, 
2015, alleging that the West Bridgewater Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about July 15, 2015, and Town Administrator David Gagne responded on behalf of the Board 
by letter dated August 4, 2015. In his complaint. Attorney Dupuis alleges that, during the 
course of negotiating contracts with nonunion personnel in executive session, the Board 
improperly discussed the professional competence of those nonunion personnel and executed 
the final contracts in executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing professional competence in executive session. However, we find that the Board 
executed the final nonunion employment contracts in open session in compliance with the 
Law. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the Board's response, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed 
the notices of and open and executive session minutes from the Board meetings held on 
November 19, 2014; January 14, 2015; February 4, 2015; March 4, 2015; April 1, 2015; April 
16, 2015; May 20, 2015; and June 17,2015. 
We find the facts as follows. Between November 2014 and May 2015, the Board 
engaged in a series of negotiations with individual nonunion personnel in executive session 
regarding the renewal of their employment contracts. Prior to the start of the negotiations, the 
Board had not conducted annual performance evaluations for any of these employees. 
Following a series of executive session discussions, the Board decided to execute related 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
employment contracts, but waited until June 17, 2015, after the annual Town budget was 
approved, to do so in an open session meeting. The Board released most of the executive 
session minutes pertaining to these negotiations at the same meeting,1 
The Board began the contract renewal process by discussing its negotiation strategy 
during executive sessions held on November 19, 2014 and February 4, 2015. The Board 
discussed the possibility of conducting performance evaluations for each employee using a 
scoring index to evaluate and determine an increase in salary. The Board also discussed 
whether to renew contracts every year or every three years, and discussed adding a provision 
in each contract that requires a performance evaluation. Finally, the Board discussed the 
manner in which compensatory time is "tracked and monitored." The Board contends that, 
although it discussed the possibility of conducting performance evaluations, it ultimately 
decided against doing them. 
The Board began its contract renewal negotiations on January 14, 2015 by meeting in 
executive session with the Police Chief. The Board had previously sent the Police Chief a 
letter outlining the actions and changes that "would help improve the Police Department and 
that would serve as a measure of renewing" his contract. This executive session allowed the 
Police Chief to state his thoughts on "how things were going with the changes and to discuss 
his progress." The Police Chief responded by discussing the Police Department's improved 
morale and the steps he has taken to increase his interaction with the officers. The Board 
finalized its negotiations with the Police Chief during its March 4, 2015 and April 16, 2015 
executive sessions.2 
The Board met with various other employees during executive sessions held on March 
4, 2015, and April 1, 2015. During these meetings, the Board posed a "series of questions" to 
the employees about their positions. The Board asked the employees to describe their work 
schedules and compensatory time accruals, and to provide an overview of their departments, 
highlighting their projects, accomplishments and challenges.3 The Board also discussed 
issues unrelated to the employee's performance, such as personnel matters within a 
department and the condition of a town vehicle. According to the minutes, the Board 
"deliberated on the various contract presentations they had heard," although the minutes do 
1 The May 20, 2015 executive session minutes were released at a later meeting, on August 12, 2015. The April 
16, 2015 executive session minutes remain withheld irom disclosure. We remind the Board that executive 
session minutes, or portions thereof, may be withheld from public disclosure only until the purpose for 
confidentiality has expired. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Because the Police Chiefs contract has been executed, at 
the veiy least the Board should release the portion of the April 16,2015 executive session minutes relating to 
this discussion, if it has not already done so. 
2 In addition, the Board discussed an unrelated litigation matter during the April 16, 2015 meeting, 
3 For example, the Board approved a motion to request "a detailed explanation" regarding certain aspects of the 
Town Accountant's job performance, such as identifying the cause of an overpayment of Town electricity bills. 
During another meeting, the Board asked an employee whether his department holds regular staff meetings and 
whether that employee wears a uniform. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
not describe what was, in fact, discussed.4 The Board then voted to increase the salaries for 
those particular employees. 
Finally, during an executive session on May 20, 2015, the Board finalized the Fire 
Union contract and negotiated the Town Administrator's contract. According to the minutes, 
the Board did not ask the Town Administrator the same questions posed to the other town 
employees during previous executive sessions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3), One 
puipose allows a public body to convene in executive session "[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (Purpose 
2). While a public body may agree on terms with individual non-union personnel in executive 
session, the final vote to execute such agreements must be taken by the public body in open 
session. M. 
We find that the Board properly executed the employment contracts in open session 
following negotiations in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2. The Board agreed upon 
the terms of each renewal agreement, such as salary increases, in executive session, but did 
not execute the contracts until after the annual Town budget was approved at Town Meeting 
on June 8, 2015. The Board ultimately executed the contracts in open session during its June 
17, 2015 meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in this regard. 
However, we find that the Board's discussion of the employees' professional 
competence during the course of some of these closed-door negotiations violated the Open 
Meeting Law.3 See OML 2015-40. The Board asked employees to identify accomplishments 
and challenges from the past year. The Board also identified performance issues of certain 
employees and asked them to respond to those areas of concern. While the Board called them 
"contract presentations," its use of a different name did not transform these discussions into 
something other than a performance review. The Board assessed the performance of 
employees for the first time behind closed doors, which should have been done in open 
4 We remind the Board that minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See 
OML 2015-142. 
5 We also note that some of the discussions concerned general personnel matters which should have been 
discussed in open session. See OML 2015-126 ("[t]he Law does not provide an executive session purpose for 
general discussion of personnel matters"). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
session instead.6 See District Attorney for the North District v. School Committee of 
Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 568 (2009) (while it is clear that professional competence must first 
be discussed in an open session, how that evaluation will factor into a contract or salary 
negotiation strategy may be a suitable discussion for an executive session). We therefore find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing professional competence of 
certain nonunion employees in executive session during its meetings held on January 14, 
2015; March 4, 2015; and April 1, 2015. Because the Board has already released the minutes 
from these executive sessions, we order no further relief with respect to the minutes. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing professional competence in executive session during its meetings held on 
January 14, 2015; March 4, 2015; and April 1, 2015. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to review 
the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Training Video #4 (Executive Sessions) and 
certify to our office within thirty (30) days of this letter, using the attached form, that it has 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: John Michael Dupuis, Esq. 
West Bridgewater Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 We note that another executive session purpose also makes clear that professional competence must be 
discussed in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (Purpose 1 allows a public body to convene in executive 
session to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual^]")- (emphasis added) 
7 The videos may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
complied with this order.7 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Certification of Compliance with Order 
I hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General's determination 
(print name) 
number OML 2015-184 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General's 
Open Meeting Law Training Video #4 on 
(date) 
Board Member Signature Date 
5 