===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
        
 
July 12, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 122  
  
  
VIA EMAIL ONLY  
  
 
Attorney Michael C. Cunningham 
Town Counsel 
mcunningham@town.arlington.ma.us 
  
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
  
Dear Attorney Cunningham:  
  
This office received a complaint from Gabriella Eisner on May 17, 2024
1, alleging that 
the Arlington Human Rights Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or around 
April 15. You responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated May 1. The complaint 
alleges that the Commission posted a notice containing insufficient specificity for a meeting held 
on April 10. 
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Commission’s response, and the request for further review. In addition, we 
reviewed the notices and minutes of the Commission meetings held on March 20, April 1, and 
April 10.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held 
on March 20. The notice included ten topics, one of which was “MAHRC Update 
(Commissioner Soneja).” The notice then listed a sub-topic description that further advised the 
 
1 All dates contained in this determination refer to the year 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
public of the topic to be discussed: “Hingham statement supporting the Palestinian community.” 
During the March 20 meeting, Commissioner Soneja explained that the Palestinian community 
in Hingham approached the Hingham Human Rights Commission to talk about the 
marginalization of their community and incidents of hate speech. The Hingham Human Rights 
Commission was interested in issuing a statement but wanted other Human Rights Commissions 
to cosign. The Commission then discussed whether to support and cosign the Hingham statement 
or issue its own statement for a ceasefire in Palestine, as well as how to live up to any statement 
and the need to bolster cross-community safety and support. Ultimately, the Committee tabled 
further discussion of the matter. 
 
The Commission then posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 1. The notice 
included one topic - “Continued discussion of community input from March meeting and the 
tabled motion to co-sign Hingham statement.” During the meeting, the Commission discussed 
inviting the community to provide input on two questions – what the town could do and what 
impacted members of the community think that other members of the town can do. The 
Committee agreed to conduct three listening sessions and then make “all decisions related to the 
Hingham statement at the next meeting.”  
 
Subsequently, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 10. The 
notice included eight topics, one of which was “Discussion re: Humanitarian Crisis in Gaza.” 
The notice then listed a sub-topic description that further advised the public of the topic to be 
discussed, which was “Tabled motion: co-signing Hingham statement.” During the meeting, the 
Commission reviewed the timeline of its discussions on the Hingham statement, provided a 
summary of comments received via email and from the listening sessions, and discussed possible 
actions to take, such as creating a working group or hiring facilitators. Ultimately, the Committee 
voted to create a small working group to include an addendum to the Hingham statement and 
then co-sign the statement.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and 
listings of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are also required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.
2 A public body need not list each and every detail 
about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements. See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-
132; OML 2019-134. 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website; https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complainant alleges that the topic regarding the Hingham statement that was listed 
on the April 10 meeting notice was not sufficiently specific. Here, the notice included a main 
heading topic of “Discussion re: Humanitarian Crisis in Gaza” and then included a sub-topic 
description of “Tabled motion: co-signing Hingham statement.” By reading both the main 
heading topic with the sub-topic description that was included on the notice, a reasonable person 
could determine that the Hingham statement related to the Humanitarian Crisis in Gaza. A notice 
need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion; rather, topics for discussion must 
be listed on the notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting,” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b), so that the public can make an informed 
decision about whether to attend the meeting to observe an anticipated discussion. See OML 
2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. We are satisfied that the topic as listed 
on the notice here was sufficient to reasonably advise the public of the issue to be discussed at 
the meeting. See OML 2023-114; OML 2013-152. 
 
In contrast, and although not raised in the complaint, we note that the notice for the April 
1 meeting included the topic “Continued discussion of community input from March meeting and 
the tabled motion to co-sign Hingham statement,” without the added context of a descriptive 
heading. Because the sufficiency of the April 1 meeting notice was not raised in the complaint, 
we do not formally review or find a violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding the April 1 
notice; however, we note the contrast between the specificity of the two notices and remind the 
Commission of its obligations. 
 
Finally, with respect to the complainant’s concerns that the Commission did not provide a 
copy of the actual statement under review by the Commission during the April 10 meeting, there 
is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public body affirmatively provide copies of 
documents to persons in attendance at a meeting. But see G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (minutes of an 
open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon 
request by any person within 10 days); G.L. c. 66, § 10 (Public Records Law requires public 
body to permit inspection or provide copy of any public record, such as documents used during a 
meeting, within 10 business days of request). We encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to 
provide meeting attendees with copies of all documents they intend to discuss. Particularly where 
viewing such documents would be helpful to following the conversation during the meeting, 
providing copies of documents that the Commission intends to discuss promotes transparency 
and public access to government deliberations. See OML 2016-94. 
  
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION  
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
 
Assisted by Andrea Royo, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Gabriella Eisner (via email: ) 
 Arlington Human Rights Commission (via email: ahrc@town.arlington.ma.us) 
 Arlington Town Clerk Juliana Brazile (via email: jbrazile@town.arlington.ma.us )  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.  
