===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 9, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 2 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Bernard Pigeon 
Chair, Wareham Board of Sewer Commissioners 
SewerCommissioners@wareham.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Pigeon: 
 
This office received two complaints from Nora Bicki alleging that the Wareham Board of 
Sewer Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The first complaint was filed with the Board on or about July 20, 2023,
1 and with our office on 
August 21. The second complaint was filed with the Board on or about July 24, and with our 
office on August 23. The Board did not formally respond to either complaint; however, we 
understand that on August 17 you sent a communication to the Complainant addressing some of 
the issues raised in the complaints.  
 
The July 20 complaint alleges that 1) meeting minutes and Open Meeting Law 
certification forms were not provided to the Complainant in response to a public records request; 
and 2) the Board failed to timely create and approve minutes for meetings held in 2022 and 2023. 
The July 24 complaint alleges that notices for Board meetings held in 2023 were insufficiently 
specific.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely approve minutes for meetings held on March 23, April 13, May 4, May 11, and May 
25, 2023. For the reasons explained below, we decline to review the remainder of the allegations 
raised in the two complaints. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaints, the requests for further review, the Complainant’s June 22 public records request, 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
and correspondence from you to the Complainant regarding her request. We also reviewed 
various minutes available online for Board meetings held in 2023. 
 
To begin, we remind the Board of its obligation to review and respond to Open Meeting 
Law complaints. Within 14 business days of receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Chair must distribute the complaint to all members of the Board; the Board must meet to review 
the complaint; the Board must respond to the complainant in writing, and the Board must provide 
our office with a copy of the complaint and the response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
 
I. Allegations We Decline to Review 
 
a. We Decline to Review Whe
 ther the Board Properly Responded to a Public 
Records Request. 
 
The July 20 complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to provi
de the Complainant with Board members’ Open Meeting Law certification forms and 
meeting minutes in response to a June 22 public records request. The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
For the reasons discussed below, we find that this first allegation concerns the Board’s 
compliance with the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10, not the Open Meeting Law, and we 
therefore decline to review this allegation. See OML 2015-17; OML Declination 3-11-15 
(Wayland School Committee).2 
 
First, although the Open Meeting Law provides a mechanism for the public to request 
meeting minutes specifically, it does not govern a public body’s response to a request for records 
other than meeting minutes, such as certification forms.
3 See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22; OML 
Declination 8-19-13 (Southwick Board of Selectmen). Therefore, failure to timely respond to a 
request for documents other than meeting minutes necessarily concerns the Public Records Law, 
rather than the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Second, a request for meeting minutes may fall under the Public Records Law or the 
Ope
n Meeting Law, depending on how the request is made. When a requester does not specify 
whether the request for minutes is being made under the Public Records Law or the Open 
Meeting Law, we have said that a request that is directed to a public body will fall within the 
Open Meeting Law, but a request for minutes that is directed to a records access officer or other 
municipal employee will likely fall under the Public Records Law. See OML 2019-126; OML 
2019-68. Here, the June 22 request for records specifically identified the Public Records Law. 
The request was made on a Town form entitled “Public Records Request Form.” The form 
references the Public Records Law and provides information relevant to responding to a records 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The Open Meeting Law and Open Meeting Law Regulations require public body members to certify receipt of 
various Open Meeting Law materials within two weeks of assuming office. More information regarding the 
certification form and the Open Meeting Law materials may be found at the Attorney General’s  website, 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/complete-public-body-member-certification.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
request under the Public Records Law, such as the fact that a fee may be charged for certain 
costs associated with responding to the request. Additionally, the full request included records 
that would fall under the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law, such as certification 
forms and records related to the completion of ethics training. Finally, the request makes no 
reference to the Open Meeting Law. For these reasons, we find that the request was made under 
the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review the 
allegation that the Board failed to properly respond to the request.
4    
 
Although we decline to review this allegation, we take this opportunity to remind the 
Board that in response to a request under the Open Meeting Law, open session meeting minutes 
must be provided within 10 days whether they are in final or draft form. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
 
b. We Decline to Review Allegations tha
 t Were Not Sufficiently or Timely Raised.  
   
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not 
conduct
 broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2021-133; 
OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). Additionally, complaints alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not reasonably have been 
known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date it 
should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(4). When an alleged violation occurs 
in open session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at the time it occurs. See 
OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.  
 
The J
uly 20 complaint alleges that, in general, the Board failed to timely create and 
approve meeting minutes in the years 2022 and 2023. We decline to perform a broad audit of the 
Board’s past minutes to determine whether any minutes were untimely approved. Additionally, 
although the complaint identifies specific minutes from 2022 and a range of minutes from 2023 
that are alleged to have been untimely approved, the complaint is untimely with respect to all of 
the minutes from 2022 and one set of minutes from 2023. Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
minutes were untimely approved for Board meetings held on January 20, April 13, June 23, July 
14, July 28, August 25, and September 29, of 2022; and for meetings held in March, April, and 
May of 2023. We decline to review whether the minutes from 2022 and the minutes for the 
Board’s March 9, 2023, meeting were timely approved where the July 20 complaint was filed 
more than 30 days after the latest set of minutes was approved in open session.
5  
  
 
4 Concerns regarding compliance with the Public Records Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records 
within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office. 
5 The latest set of minutes to be approved, those for the meeting held on March 9, 2023, were approved in open 
session on May 11, 2023. The minutes for the specific 2022 meetings were all approved in open session prior to 
May 11, 2023. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Likewise, the July 24 complaint alleges that notices for all Board meetings held in 2023 
are vague and misleading and that, specifically, notices for Board meetings held on June 8 and 
June 22 included insufficiently specific topics. For the same reasons as discussed above, we 
decline to review the July 24 complaint where we do not conduct broad audits of public bodies 
and where the complaint is untimely with respect to the two meetings specifically identified.
6 
 
II. Allegation We Review 
 
As noted above, the July 20 complaint alleges that minutes for meetings held in March, 
April, and May of 2023, were not timely approved. This allegation was timely filed with the 
Board with respect to minutes for meetings held on the following dates: March 23, April 13, May 
4, May 11, and May 25, 2023. Therefore, we review whether these meeting minutes were timely 
created and approved.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law requires that 
open session meeting minutes be “created and approved in a timely manner.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(c). The Open Meeting Law does not define “timely manner”; however, the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations define “timely manner” as “within the next three 
public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show 
good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). The Attorney General encourages public 
bodies to approve minutes at the next meeting whenever possible. 
 
After a review of meeting minutes available online and the Chair’s response to the 
Complainant’s June 22 public records request, we find that the Board failed to timely approve 
minutes for meetings held on March 23, April 13, May 4, May 11, and May 25, 2023, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 days of the 
date of this letter, to approve any of the above meeting minutes which have not yet been 
approved. 
  
 
6 The Complainant filed a third complaint with the Board on or about September 6. That  complaint timely raised 
allegations regarding the sufficiency of notices for meetings held on August 10 and 24. The September 6 complaint 
will be addressed in a separate determination letter. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
cc: Nora Bicki (via email: )  
Debra Gremo, Wareham Town Clerk (via email: clerk@wareham.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
