===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
June 14, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 82 
 
 
Nina Pickering-Cook, Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21st Floor 
Boston, Massachusetts 02109 
 
By email only:   
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Pickering-Cook: 
 
This office received two complaints from Steven Ballard on March 8, 2021, alleging that 
the Acton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  
The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 8, 2020, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 18.  The second complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about December 18 and you responded, on behalf of the 
Board, by letter dated January 5, 2021.  Both complaints allege that Board Chair Jon Benson 
violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating by email outside of a properly posted meeting on 
December 8 and December 15. 
 
Following our review, we find that Chair Benson did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the minutes of the Board meetings held on December 7 and 
December 14, the December 8 and December 15 emails that are the subject of these complaints, 
and a video recording of the Board meeting held on December 7.2   
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on December 7 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HmSabDQyMFI. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
  
The Board held a meeting on December 7, during which it unanimously approved the 
consent agenda, held two public hearings, received updates from the Town Manager on the 
number of COVID-19 cases in town and the receipt of a grant for infrastructure updates, 
discussed community preservation project applications, and appointed an acting Town 
Accountant.  The two public hearings held by the Board involved a review of a site plan special 
permit for a mixed-use building on Powder Mill Road and the removal of a tree on Pearl Street.  
During the first hearing, the Board heard from the applicant, representatives of the Council on 
Aging and Commission on Disability, as well as members of the public, many of whom 
expressed safety concerns with the proposed access to the property and layout of the parking lot.  
The Board unanimously voted to continue this hearing.  During the second hearing, the Board 
discussed the damage to a tree caused by a developer during the installation of a sidewalk.  
Several members of the Board stated that it was unfortunate that the tree had to be removed, 
were reluctant to remove the tree, and were sympathetic to requests to save the tree.  Ultimately, 
the Board unanimously voted to remove the tree. 
 
The Board held a meeting on December 14, during which it unanimously approved the 
consent agenda, held a tax classification hearing and voted to adopt a uniform tax rate, received 
updates from the Town Manager on the number of COVID-19 cases in town and the Minuteman 
High School Athletic Field, discussed community preservation project priorities, discussed and 
unanimously voted to reduce restaurant liquor license fees, and reviewed and discussed an Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed by the complainant unanimously voting to appoint Town legal 
counsel to respond.3  
 
The day after the December 7 and December 14 meetings Board Chair Jon Benson sent 
emails to “All Boards and Committees” in the Town of Acton, which included all members of 
the Board.  Each email was entitled “BOS-Updates” and stated that the Board had met the 
previous evening and “there are these updates to report.”  The two emails then provided a 
summary of each topic the Board had discussed and included the decisions made or actions taken 
by the Board during the December 7 and December 14 meetings.  Specifically, Chair Benson 
stated, in his December 8 email, that “[p]owerful and thoughtful presentations were made” by 
representatives of the Council on Aging and the Commission on Disabilities regarding safety 
issues with the parking lot of the proposed mixed-use development.  Chair Benson later 
commented, in that same email, that “the Board regrettably concluded” that a tree needed to be 
removed from Pearl Street because of severe damage caused by a developer during the 
installation of a sidewalk.  The December 15 email did not convey any new opinions but simply 
memorialized the discussions that had occurred during the December 14 meeting.   
 
 
 
 
 
3 The complaint reviewed by the Board during the December 14 meeting is the first complaint at issue here. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaints allege that Chair Benson deliberated by email by providing his “own 
personal ‘updates’ of the Board’s” December 7 and December 14 meetings.  Specifically, the 
complaints allege that “the mass email[s] w[ere] unavoidably tainted by the Chair's opinions” 
and those emails contained his “own summary - a sort of opinionated advance minutes of the 
meeting.”  The December 8 email included, in addition to a summary of the meeting, a statement 
by the Chair that “[p]owerful and thoughtful presentations were made” by representatives of the 
Council on Aging and the Commission on Disabilities during the December 7 meeting regarding 
safety issues with the parking lot of the proposed mixed-use development.  Although the email 
was sent to a quorum of the Board and could be construed to include the Chair’s opinion on a 
matter within the Board’s jurisdiction, we find that, on the whole, the email simply memorialized 
the discussions that occurred during the meeting, and therefore the circulation of the email 
merely served an administrative purpose similar to circulating draft minutes.  See OML 2019-78 
(the distribution of minutes ahead of a public meeting is permissible as long as the minutes 
simply memorialize the deliberation that took place at a preceding open meeting); OML 2013-
127 (same).4  We recognize that this is a close call and that it can be difficult to determine 
whether, under the circumstances, a given communication constitutes deliberation under the 
Open Meeting Law, and therefore our office specifically cautions public bodies on the use of 
electronic communications.  See OML 2017-88; OML 2014-80.  We also recommend that the 
Chair exercise caution to avoid editorializing when preparing his meeting summaries, just as 
should be done when distributing meeting minutes. 
 
We also do not find that the Chair’s statement in the December 8 email that “the Board 
regrettably concluded” that a tree needed to be removed from Pearl Street to be the expression of 
his opinion where several Board members stated during the December 7 meeting that it was 
unfortunate that the tree had to be removed and were reluctant to remove the tree.  As such, we 
find that the Chair’s inclusion of the word “regrettably” was an accurate summary of the Board’s 
discussion with respect to this matter.  Finally, we find that the December 15 email simply 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
memorialized the discussions that had occurred during the Board’s December 14 meeting and 
did not convey any new opinions.  To the extent the email itself reflected the opinions of 
members on matters under consideration by the Board, these matters had all been discussed 
during an open meeting.  See OML 2020-48.  Thus, we find that the December 15 email did not 
constitute deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting and therefore did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law.   
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Board Chair Jon Benson did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Board or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Ballard – By email  
 Acton Select Board – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
