===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 5, 2018 
OML 2018-144
Shawn Armacost
Central Berkshire Regional School District School Committee
254 Hinsdale Road
P.O. Box 299
Dalton, MA 01227-0299
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Armacost:
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Wetherell, dated July 25, alleging that 
the Central Berkshire Regional School Committee (the “Committee”), and specifically the 
Committee’s Chair and Vice Chair and the school district’s Superintendent violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on June 28, and the Committee responded by letter dated July 6. In her complaint, Ms.
Wetherell alleges that the Chair and Vice Chair regularly discuss matters with the superintendent 
outside of the Committee’s regular meetings to determine whether such matters should be 
presented to the Committee for consideration.
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a), and we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law, as the 
allegations raised in the complaint, even if true, do not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass.70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
“deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the member of the public body. Id.
The Committee is a 15-member body; thus, 8 members constitute a quorum. The 
Superintendent is a not a member of the Committee. Where the Chair and the Vice Chair 
together do not constitute a quorum, and the Superintendent is not a member of the Committee in 
any event, nothing in the Open Meeting Law prohibits the Chair and Vice Chair from meeting 
with the Superintendent outside of noticed public meetings, as such discussions are not 
“deliberations” under the Open Meeting Law. To the extent that the complaint may be construed 
as alleging that the Chair, Vice Chair, and Superintendent effectively made decisions that should 
have been made by the Committee as a whole when they decided amongst themselves which 
matters should be placed on Committee meeting agendas and which matters did not require 
Committee attention, this allegation goes to the authority of individuals such as the 
Superintendent versus the Board to take action on particular matters, which is not a matter 
governed by the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kimberly Wetherell
Central Berkshire Regional School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2
