===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 19,2015 
OML 2015-156 
Dawn Michanowicz, Town Clerk 
Town of Sterling 
1 Park Street 
Sterling, MA 01564 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Michanowicz: 
This office received a complaint from Claire Stidsen, dated September 11, alleging that 
the Sterling Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 19, and the Board 
responded by letter dated September 1. In her complaint, Ms. Stidsen alleges that the Board 
failed to post notice for a public hearing. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed documentation included with 
these filings. Finally, we spoke to Sterling Town Clerk Dawn Michanowicz by phone on 
September 28.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. Pursuant to 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), the Town of Sterling 
(the "Town") has adopted its municipal website as its alternative location for posting notice of O > 
Town meetings. When users access the Town website, they are presented with five tabs: Town 
News; Meetings; Hearings; Vacancies; and Recycling. There is also an option to access a 
calendar that lists meetings. The Board scheduled a public hearing for Tuesday, August 18. On 
July 30, notice of the August 18 hearing was posted under the Hearings tab on the Town website. 
On this same date, the notice was posted on the bulletin board located in the clerk's office. On 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 The Town website address is www.sterling-ma.gov. 
===PAGE 2===
Monday, August 17, the day before the hearing at issue, Ms. Michanowicz posted notice of the 
hearing on the calendar portion of the website. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).4 For local public bodies, notice shall be filed with the 
municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on 
the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. Id. at § 20(c). A municipality may 
designate a website as an alternative notice posting location for all public bodies within the 
municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
Here, the Town has adopted its municipal website as its alternate notice posting location. 
While the notice was not immediately apparent when users went to the Town website—rather, 
one needed to click on the Hearings tab to view it— we find that the Board nevertheless 
complied with the Open Meeting Law's requirements. The notice was posted to the Town's 
website, and it was posted more than 48 hours prior to the meeting. This satisfied the Board's 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b)-(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). We 
note that Ms. Michanowicz stated to our office that in the future, all meeting and hearing notices 
will be simultaneously posted under the appropriate tab and on the calendar. 
As a final matter, we note that the Board did not send a copy of its response to this 
complaint to Ms. Stidsen. The Open Meeting Law states that within 14 business days of receipt 
of a complaint, the public body must send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). The body shall simultaneously 
notify the complainant that it has sent such materials to the Attorney General and shall provide 
the complainant with a copy of the description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
We take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 We note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting public hearings. See OML 
Declination 1-29-15 (Holbrook Planning Board), available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. We therefore offer no opinion on whether the posting at issue complies with 
applicable public hearing laws. Id. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Claire Stidsen 
Sterling Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 