===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
0>FE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Robert H. Fennessy, Jr. 
Town Administrator 
Town House 
26 Evergreen St. 
Kingston, MA 02364 
May 27, 2014 
OML 2014-57 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Fennessy: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Beaton on March 4, 2014, alleging that the 
Kingston Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 13, 2014 and you 
responded to the original complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 23, 2014.1 In 
his complaint, Mr. Beaton alleges that the Board discussed a topic concerning him during its 
January 7, 2014 open meeting and "failed to have the matter posted on the agenda, failed to 
notify [him] of the discussion or any anticipated or threatened action, and have caused 
irreparable harm to [his] reputation." 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing the topic at issue during its January 7, 2014 meeting. Additionally, we find that the 
Board was not required to provide Mr. Beaton with personal notice that this item would be 
discussed. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the January 13, 2014 complaint filed 
with the Board; the Board's January 23, 2014 response; and the complainant's request for further 
review of this matter, which was received by our office on March 4, 2014. We also reviewed a 
March 24, 2014 letter from Chair Fiore, providing certain documents and information requested 
by our office. We reviewed the notices, minutes, and video recordings of the Board's January 7, 
2014 and January 28, 2014 open session meetings, and the minutes of the Board's December 3, 
2013 open session meeting. We reviewed an undated letter from the complainant, received by 
' For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. It is unclear whether the Board 
reviewed the complaint before the Town Administrator responded. We remind the Board that, while a public body 
may authorize an individual such as the Town Administrator or Town Counsel to respond on the public body's 
behalf, the public body must first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
2 The request was dated February 14, 2014. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
our office on March 13, 2014, enclosing a January 10, 2014 news article from the Kingston 
Reporter and certain email correspondence between the complainant and Nancy Howlett, former 
Assistant to the Town Administrator. Finally, we spoke with Chair Fiore via telephone on April 
29,2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 3, 2013, during the Open Forum portion of a 
Board meeting, a citizen raised concerns about the complainant's behavior during a meeting of 
the Planning Board. Chair Fiore noted during this discussion that all Town boards and 
committees would have to adhere to a newly adopted Code of Civility. 
On January 7, 2014, the Board held another open meeting. The notice for this meeting 
listed under "Appointments" the following topic for discussion, "7:00 PM Mark Beaton; RFP 
for Solar Farm; Green Fund Balance and Loan Program." During the meeting, this agenda item 
was discussed for more than 30 minutes. Mr. Beaton described the proposed RFP and requested 
a vote from the Board. A vote was taken but did not pass, then conversation turned to the Green 
Fund Balance and Loan Program. After that was discussed. Chair Fiore mentioned the complaint 
about Mr. Beaton's behavior at a Planning Board meeting. She noted that he was aware of the 
complaint, and said she was making him aware of a code of conduct and letting him know the 
potential consequences if such issues continued. Chair Fiore did not plan to raise this matter 
during the meeting, but felt while Mr. Beaton was standing before the Board that this was an 
opportune time to address the issue. In response to the Chair's remarks, Mr. Beaton stated, "That 
wasn't on the agenda." The Chair acknowledged he was correct, apologized, and stated that they 
would put it on the next agenda if he'd like to join the Board then. Discussion of the topic then 
ceased. 
The Board met again on January 28, 2014. The notice for this meeting, posted on 
January 24, 2014, did not include any reference to Mr. Beaton or to his January 13, 2014 Open 
Meeting Law complaint. Following the Open Forum portion of this meeting, the Chair stated 
that she'd made a procedural error at the last meeting and apologized. She noted her intent was 
merely to inform Mr. Beaton of the code of conduct policy they'd adopted, not to have an in-
depth discussion about the complaint. She said that, while they'd noted during the previous 
meeting that Mr. Beaton would be on the agenda for the next meeting, in correspondence they 
both felt the situation had been resolved and there was no need to further discuss it. Mr. Beaton 
disputes that there was any such agreement, and emails exchanged between the parties during the 
week preceding the meeting show there was some question at the time notice was posted for the 
January 28, 2014 meeting whether Mr. Beaton would be added as an "Appointment." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list anticipated topics with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 
3 The notice for this meeting was originally posted on January 2, 2014 and was updated on January 6, 2014. This 
agenda item was included in the original posting and was not changed when the notice was amended. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CMR 29.03(l)(b). A public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the 
meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before 
the meeting.4 OML 2013-197; OML 2013-61; OML 2012-88. However, public bodies are 
encouraged not to discuss or vote on items that arise within that 48-hour period or during a 
meeting if the topic can be postponed until a later date and added to a properly posted meeting 
notice.5 ld^ 
While it is clear that Chair Fiore was aware of the complaint against Mr. Beaton as early 
as December 3, 2013, she did not decide to raise the issue during the Board's January 7, 2014 
meeting until Mr. Beaton was standing before her. Because she did not anticipate discussing this 
matter 48 hours in advance of the January 7, 2014 meeting, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by discussing the complaint and code of conduct issue on that date. See 
OML 2013-197; OML 2013-61; OML 2012-88. Furthermore, we find that Chair Fiore acted 
appropriately by promptly ceasing discussing of this topic and apologizing when Mr. Beaton 
raised concerns about the propriety of the discussion. 
Mr. Beaton also contends that he should have been provided with individual notice that 
the Board would be discussing a complaint against him during its January 7, 2014 meeting. 
Even if the Chair had anticipated raising this topic 48 hours in advance of the Board's meeting, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require notice to an individual that a public body may discuss a 
topic involving that individual unless the public body intends to enter executive session under 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(1). OML 2014-47; OML 2013-24. Accordingly, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law by not providing such notice to Mr. Beaton. 
As a final matter, although not raised in the complaint, we would be remiss if we did not 
note a deficiency in the notice for the Board's January 28, 2014 meeting. While there appears to 
have been some question about whether Mr. Beaton would attend that meeting to further discuss 
this issue, the Chair clearly anticipated addressing the matter at that meeting. In the Board's 
January 23, 2014 response to the complaint, the Lown Administrator noted that "the 
Chairwoman of the Selectmen intends to take remedial action at the Selectmen's next meeting." 
During the meeting, the Chair read a prepared statement in which she apologized for what she 
called "a procedural error." Because the Chair anticipated 48 hours in advance of this meeting 
that she would address Mr. Beaton's Open Meeting Law complaint, the meeting notice should 
have listed that as atopic for discussion. See OML 2014-38; OML 2013-195. We remind the 
Board that all topics for discussion that are reasonably anticipated 48 hours before a meeting, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 See also OML FAQ: Meeting Notices, available at the Attorney General's website: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may 
consider a topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General strongly encourages 
public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if those topics were not listed in the meeting notice. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
including responses to Open Meeting Law complaints, must be listed in a meeting notice. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b); id 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Mark Beaton 
Kingston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 