===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 13,2014 
OML 2014-2 
Alice DeLuca, Chair 
Minuteman Regional Technical School District Committee 
758 Marrett Road 
Lexington, MA 02421 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. DeLuca: 
This office received a complaint from David Manjarrez on July 16, 2013, alleging that 
Laura Morrissette violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Morrissette 
serves as a member of the Minuteman Regional Technical School District Committee (the 
"Committee")- The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 25, 
2013, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 11, 2013. In his 
complaint, Mr. Manjarrez alleges that on June 12, 2013, Ms. Morrissette violated the Open 
Meeting Law by sending an email to the Committee on a matter of public business within the 
Committee's jurisdiction. 
We reviewed the June 25, 2013 complaint; your July 11, 2013 response to the complaint, 
on behalf of the Committee;1 and the July 16, 2013 complaint filed with our office, requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the email at issue. 
Following our review, we find that Ms. Morrissette individually violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We commend the Committee's efforts to respond to the complainant's concerns 
by disclosing this email during its next open meeting; however we find the remedial action taken 
was not wholly sufficient, for the reasons explained below. 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee was in the process of considering 
whether to renew the contract of the School Superintendent, Dr. Edward Bouquillon, which was 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
set to expire on June 30, 2013. In preparation for its upcoming meeting on June 18, 2013, 
several Committee members sent emails to the rest of the Committee sharing correspondence 
they'd received from members of the public on the topic, as described below. 
On June 12, 2013, Committee member Jack Weiss sent an email to the rest of the 
Committee, attaching a letter from a resident concerning the renewal of Dr. Bouquillon's 
contract, and stating, 
I know one of the parents who authored the letter better than I know the other, and I 
believe that the person is both committed to the school and someone who is not prone to 
rash and extreme statements.. .1 offer this to you for your consideration purely for 
informational purposes, NOT to spur any e-mail dialogue on the subject. So, please do 
not reply via e-mail to the substance of the letter. 
Later that day. Committee member David Horton sent an email to the Committee, attaching a 
similar letter from another resident. Mr. Horton stated, "You will notice that several paragraphs 
are virtually identical to those in the letter that Jack received. Just an observation, not to initiate 
discussion or any indication of how I would vote on awarding a contract." A few minutes later. 
Committee member Bella Wong responded to Mr. Horton, and copied the rest of the Committee, 
updating them on her recent attendance at the Weston Board of Selectmen meeting. Ms. Wong 
stated, "The Board.. .considered taking a vote of no confidence in the Supt and asked for 
direction from me. My response was that 1 did not think a vote was necessary but that I would 
relay their concerns to the Chair." Committee member Laura Morrissette then sent an email to 
Ms. Wong, and copied the rest of the Committee, attaching her page-long response to another 
resident's letter concerning Dr. Bouquillon's contract. Ms. Morrissette's response, in part, 
stated, 
I feel that for the most part. Dr. Bouquillon has accomplished most of the goals that the 
School Committee set and has been diligent in working to improve where [he] has not 
met goals. He has made some mistakes, those issues have been formally addressed by 
the School Committee, I believe that he has recognized those mistakes and has taken 
steps to insure that those same mistakes do not happen again.. .At this point in time I 
believe that Dr. Bouquillon is still the best choice for Superintendent of Minuteman. 
Ms. Morrissette concluded her response by noting that she could not attend the next Committee 
meeting or vote remotely because the Committee had not yet adopted remote participation. 
During its next meeting, on June 18, 2013, the Committee approved the renewal of Dr. 
Bouquillon's contract. After the vote was taken, Chair Alice DeLuca noted that the Committee 
had circulated some emails on the topic that, although not read aloud during the meeting, would 
become part of the meeting minutes. In discussing its response to this complaint during its July 
9, 2013 meeting, the Committee motioned: 
With the exception of emails from a single member of the Committee directed solely to 
the Chair of the Committee and emails from the chair of the Committee solely to a single 
member of the Committee, to encourage Committee members to refrain from sending 
2 
===PAGE 3===
emails to other Committee members regarding matters other than distribution of meeting 
agendas and scheduling meetings and similar administrative communications specifically 
sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, all deliberations must occur during a 
properly posted meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or 
written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. BOA, § 18. 
We find that Ms. Morrissette's June 12, 2013 email to the Committee constituted 
improper deliberation because it expressed her opinion about a matter of public business within 
the Committee's jurisdiction, namely, the renewal of Dr. Bouquillon's contract. Although the 
letter forwarded by Ms. Morrissette was directed to a citizen, rather than to the Committee, it 
was sent to a quorum of the Committee, expressed Mr. Morrissette's opinion on a matter under 
consideration by the Committee, and was not sent as a document to be discussed at a meeting.2 
Expression of an opinion on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body 
is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2013-163; OML 
2013-29.3 Ms. Momssette's opinion therefore should not have been shared with a quorum of the 
Committee's members outside of a properly posted open meeting. By disclosing the existence of 
the email and making it available to the public during the Committee's June 18, 2013 meeting, 
the Committee mitigated the seriousness of the violation. In order to fully remedy the violation, 
however, the Committee should have publicly read the content of the improper email as well. 
See OML 2013-17; OML 2012-67. 
Finally, although they are not the subject of this complaint, we note our concern about the 
content of some of the other emails sent as part of this exchange. While administrative 
communications are generally permitted by the Open Meeting Law, some of the authors' content 
crossed the line into impermissible deliberation. Determining which tasks are merely 
"administrative" can be challenging, and email communication between a quorum of public body 
members — however innocent — easily may create the appearance of secret deliberation. See 
OML 2013-130; OML 2013-86. Therefore, our best advice continues to be that members of 
public bodies not communicate over email at all except for distributing meeting agendas, 
scheduling meetings, and distributing documents to be discussed at meetings. We commend the 
Committee's commitment to limiting its email communication going forward, as evidenced in its 
July 9, 2013 vote. 
2 Furthermore, Ms. Morrissette knew at the time she sent it that she did not plan to attend the next meeting. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Ms. Morrissette individually violated the Open 
Meeting Law. Although we do not find that this violation was intentional, we note that this is the 
second time that a member of the Committee has been found to have violated the law in this 
manner. See OML 2012-67. Accordingly, we order the full Committee's immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Manjarrez 
Nancy Campany, Esq., Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 