===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 11, 2019 
OML 2019-158
Julie Schreiner-Oldham 
Brookline School Committee Chair 
Office of the School Committee 
Town Hall, 5th Floor 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Ms. Schreiner-Oldham:
This office received two complaints alleging that the Brookline School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first, from Andrew 
Fischer, was filed with our office on August 26, 2019, and the second was filed by Mike Offner 
on October 10, 2019.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on July 8 and 
July 18, respectively, and you responded by letters dated July 25 and October 3. In their 
complaints, Mr. Fischer and Mr. Offner allege that the Committee discussed a topic at its June 19 
meeting which was not included on its notice.2
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged in the complaints. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaints, 
the Committee’s responses, and the requests for further review. We also reviewed, in camera, the 
executive session minutes for the June 19 meeting and viewed a video of the meeting. Finally, 
we spoke with Brookline Associate Town Counsel John Buchheit by phone on December 6.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. For at least the past two years, the Committee’s Chair has 
chosen a single Committee member to serve as the “social media liaison” to represent the views 
of the Committee on all social media platforms.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 Mr. Fischer’s complaint also alleges that having one social media spokesperson is a violation of the federal 
constitutional right to free speech. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners).
a

===PAGE 2===
On May 31, the Committee received an Open Meeting Law complaint about the social 
media use of one Committee member, who was not the social media liaison.3 In order to review 
and respond to this complaint, the Committee met in executive session during its June 19 
meeting. The Committee’s meeting notice included the agenda item:
“PROPOSED EXECUTIVE SESSION
Question of whether the School Committee shall enter into Executive Session for 
the purpose of reviewing and possibly taking remedial action regarding an Open 
Meeting Law Complaint received on or about May 31, 2019 pursuant to the 
exemption to discuss complaints or charges brought against a public officer (G.L. 
c. 30A, s. 21(a)(1)).”
Because the minutes of this executive session have not been publicly released, we do not recount 
their content in detail here. However, we note that the Committee discussed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint and whether any remedial action was required.
When the Committee returned from executive session, the Chair spoke about the 
Committee’s social media practices and announced that the Chair would continue to appoint a 
single Committee member as social media liaison.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that “a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-186. Where a 
public body’s discussion, including a vote, naturally flows from its consideration of the posted 
agenda topic, the notice is sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2019-70; 2018-14; OML 2014-44.4
Here, the meeting notice described an anticipated executive session discussion “for the 
purpose of reviewing and possibly taking remedial action regarding an Open Meeting Law 
Complaint.” After reviewing the Committee’s June 19 executive session minutes, in camera, we 
are satisfied that the discussion remained within the noticed topic. However, we find that the 
Chair’s announcement in open session about the broader topic of the Committee’s use of social 
media and a social media liaison was not anticipated, but rather arose organically from the 
executive session discussion of what remedial measures, if any, should be taken in response to 
the Open Meeting Law Complaint. Because the open session social media update was not
3 In resolving the May 31 complaint, we found that the Committee had not violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2019-122.
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
reasonably anticipated by the Chair, it was not required to be included on the meeting notice. 
Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Andrew Fischer
Mike Offner
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
