===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 18, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 78 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph Callanan, Esq. 
Town Counsel, Town of Brookline 
jcallanan@brooklinema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Maria Kogan on January 6, 2025, alleging that the 
Brookline School Committee
1 (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on October 22, 2024,2 and, 
after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by 
letter dated December 13, 2024. The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide 
sufficient notice that during its October 10 meeting it would discuss designating Eid al-Fitr as a 
Category I holiday on the school calendar.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its October 10 meeting. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, 
and the request for further review. We also reviewed notices for and video recordings of 
Committee meetings held on August 8, October 10, December 5, and December 19, 2024, as 
well as January 9, 2025.
3 
 
 
 
1 One of the Committee’s members is an employee of the Attorney General’s Office. The complaint contains no 
allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that individual played no role in this office ’s 
consideration of the complaint. 
2 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
3 Committee meeting materials, including video recordings of meetings, can be found at 
https://www.brookline.k12.ma.us/schoolcommittee.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on August 8; the notice included, among other topics, the topic “Discussion of draft 2025-2026 
school calendar.” The Committee convened the August 8 meeting as scheduled. During the 
meeting, the Superintendent of Brookline Schools, Linus Guillory, explained that he had 
received a request from members of the community to include Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha as 
Category I holidays on the school calendar.
4,5 In response to this request, Superintendent 
Guillory had explored how adding two additional Category I holidays might impact instructional 
time, including by seeking input from school principals and building leadership. In preparation 
for the August 8 meeting, Superintendent Guillory had created two draft 2025-2026 school year 
calendars for the Committee to consider—one calendar included the then-current holidays 
projected out to the 2025-2026 school year, and the other included Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha as 
Category I holidays. Superintendent Guillory also explained during the August 8 meeting that it 
was his hope that the Committee would discuss more broadly how to address requests for 
additional holidays moving forward. Finally, Superintendent Guillory described the feedback he 
had received from principals and building leadership and explained certain obligations the Town 
has with respect to the calendar under the educators’ union contract.  
 
In response to the information provided by Superintendent Guillory, the Committee 
engaged in a lengthy discussion regarding the addition of Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha as 
Category I holidays; whether to remove other holidays from the calendar, specifically Good 
Friday; whether to cease including religious holidays as Category I holidays altogether; the 
differences between and value of each of the three holiday categories; the definition of “day of 
low attendance” for purposes of identifying when a holiday should be classified as Category I; 
not wanting the school year to run too late into June due to concerns about warm weather; 
whether Category II holidays and half days were of value or should be eliminated; whether to 
poll the community regarding religious holidays; and the importance of being inclusive of the 
Town’s diverse community. At one point Superintendent Guillory asked for guidance regarding 
whether the Committee wanted to add Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha as Category I holidays, and 
later clarified that it was his understanding that the Committee would take up the discussion 
again at a future meeting.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 10; the notice included, 
among other topics, the topic “2025-2026 School Calendar (2nd Reading and Possible Vote).” 
The Committee convened the October 10 meeting as scheduled. Toward the beginning of the 
meeting the Committee held a public comment session. Prior to the start of public comment, the 
chair of the meeting
6 explained that although the Committee’s rules only allowed for 15 minutes 
 
4 The Brookline school district recognizes three categories of holiday which we understand to be as follows. 
Category I: schools are closed, no homework may be assigned the school day before the holiday, and no assignment 
may be due or test administered the school day after the holiday. Category II: schools are open but no homework 
may be assigned the school day before the holiday and no assignment may be due or test administered the school 
day following the holiday. Category III: students who observe a holiday that is not a Category I or Category II 
holiday may ask for an alternative deadline for completion of an assignment without loss of credit. 
5 Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha had previously been designated as Category II holidays. 
6 The Committee’s then-chair, Andy Liu, was not present at the meeting and so Committee member Suzanne 
Federspiel acted as chair for the October 10 meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
of public comment, that evening it would allow 30 minutes for public comment. In response to a 
question from a fellow Committee member regarding this change, the chair of the meeting 
explained that the reason for the deviation was that there was a large group that wished to speak 
about one particular topic and the reason this was known was due to emails received from the 
individuals wishing to speak. During public comment, 16 members of the public spoke, all in 
favor of designating Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha, or both as Category I holidays on the school 
calendar.    
 
Later in the October 10 meeting the Committee turned to the notice topic “2025-2026 
School Calendar (2nd Reading and Possible Vote).” At the beginning of the discussion, a 
Committee member moved to change Eid al-Fitr to a Category I holiday and change Good 
Friday from a Category I holiday to a Category II holiday. From there the Committee held a 
similar discussion to the one held on August 8, discussing the treatment and addition of holidays 
on the school calendar, including whether to change Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha, or both to Category 
I holidays; whether to change Good Friday to a Category II holiday; whether to abolish religious 
holidays entirely; the value or lack thereof of Category II holidays; the importance of 
representation and equality and the role of the school calendar with respect thereto; whether 
changes should be made to the holiday categories; and not wanting to extend the school year due 
to concerns about warm weather.  
 
Toward the end of the discussion the Committee voted to express to the Superintendent 
the Committee’s desire that Eid al-Fitr be designated as a Category I holiday on the school 
calendar. The Committee took no action regarding broader policy changes with respect to the 
school calendar or designation of holidays. Thereafter, the Committee briefly discussed two 
other issues related to the calendar and then moved on to other topics.   
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 5. The notice 
included the topic “Draft 2025-2026 School District Calendars, including the possible addition of 
Eid al-Fitr as a new Category I holiday (expected to be docketed for a possible vote at the 
December 19, 2024 meeting).” During the December 5 meeting, the Committee reviewed four 
draft calendars, some of which included Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday. The Committee 
discussed designating Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday; a memo from legal counsel regarding 
the designation of holidays; that Committee members wanted to hold a substantive discussion 
about removing all religious holidays from the school calendar; and that Committee members 
wanted to request data for a future discussion.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 19, which included 
the topic: 
 
Draft 2025-2025 [sic] School District Calendars, including the possible addition of 
Eid al-Fitr as a new Category I holiday, or the possible removal of all Category I 
holidays (Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur, Lunar New Year, and Good Friday). 
Discussion scheduled under Section 5. Vote to approve a calendar is expected at 
the January 9, 2025 meeting. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
During the December 19 meeting the Committee again discussed how to treat religious 
holidays, including whether to designate Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday. The Committee also 
discussed whether its October 10 vote had been to designate Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday 
or to ask Superintendent Guillory to provide a draft calendar with Eid al-Fitr as a Category I 
holiday for the Committee to review and consider. At the end of the discussion the Committee’s 
then-chair, Andy Liu, noted that he planned to hold a vote during the Committee’s next meeting, 
scheduled for January 9, 2025. 
 
 The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 9, 2025, which 
included the following topic: 
 
Discussion and Possible Vote on the 2025-2026 School District Calendar, including 
the possible addition of Eid al -Fitr as a new Category I holiday, or the possible 
removal of all Category I holidays from the calendar (Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur, 
Lunar New Year, and Good Friday). 
 
During the meeting the Committee discussed four options for the 2025-2026 
school year calendar. These options included making no changes; designating Eid al-Fitr 
as a Category I holiday; moving a professional development day from November to 
March 20, which happens to fall on Eid al-Fitr that school year; and eliminating all non-
mandatory holidays. After some discussion, a member moved to adopt the second version 
of the calendar, which would designate Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday. After 
additional discussion the Committee voted to adopt version two of the 2025-2026 school 
year calendar, designating Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays” and that notices include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
 
Topic
s for discussion must be listed on the meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
A public body need not list every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s 
requirements, nor does a public body need to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome 
of a discussion when including topics on a notice. See OML 2019-134.
7 When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review the 
notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific. See OML 2015-101. 
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
The complaint alleges that the topic “2025-2026 School Calendar (2nd Reading and 
Possible Vote)” on the notice of the October 10 meeting was insufficient to inform the public 
that the Committee would discuss the designation of holidays on the school calendar and 
specifically designating Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday on the 2025-2026 school year 
calendar. The Committee asserts in response that the notice topic was sufficient where the chair 
did not anticipate the specific discussion and vote that occurred during the October 10 meeting 
and where the discussion naturally flowed from consideration of the noticed topic. The 
Committee’s assertions are contradicted by the video evidence before us. Indeed, even the 
Committee’s response begins by noting that “the Chair reasonably anticipated a continued 
discussion from the August 8 workshop about the structure of the draft 2025-2026 academic 
calendar.”  
 
The August 8 discussion focused on the inclusion of Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adh
 a as 
Category I holidays, and more broadly focused on whether to change the district’s approach to 
holidays entirely. We find that the notice topic “2025-2026 School Calendar (2nd Reading and 
Possible Vote)” was insufficient to inform the public of the reasonably anticipated nature of the 
October 10 discussion—the designation of Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday and the district’s 
approach to holidays more broadly. See OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022- 2023 School Year 
Calendar” was insufficient to reasonably inform the public that school committee would discuss 
changing Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar); OML 2019-77 
(Notice topic “Review FY20 Department budgets” insufficient where specific department 
budgets anticipated for discussion); OML 2019-89 (finding that the notice topics “Host 
Agreement,” “Land Development,” and “Non-Opposition letter” “did not sufficiently alert 
members of the public that the Board would be discussing a marijuana establishment - a topic 
that, no doubt, was the subject of immense public interest”).   
 
Next, 
we must address the requested remedial action. The complaint requests that the 
Committee’s October 10 decision to designate Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday be nullified. 
The Committee asserts that it took no final action during its October 10 meeting and that instead 
its “vote was only an expression of the School Committee’s desire to designate Eid al-Fitr as a 
Category I holiday and to instruct the Superintendent to create a revised calendar to be docketed 
and voted at a future meeting.”  
 
Although it is not entirely clear what the intended effect of the Committee’s October 10 
vote was, it is clear that the October 10 discussion was not the conclusion of the Committee’s 
consideration of the designation of Eid al-Fitr. Indeed, the Committee discussed the designation 
of Eid al-Fitr, as well as the treatment of holidays more broadly, at three subsequent meetings 
following the October 10 meeting, each time following posting of notice that specified 
discussion of the Eid al-Fitr holiday. The Committee did not finally vote to adopt a calendar 
designating Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday until its January 9, 2025, meeting, a meeting for 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
which proper notice of this topic was provided. For these reasons we decline to nullify the 
Committee’s October 10 vote.8 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its October 10 meeting. We order 
the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. For the 
reasons explained above, we do not order further remedial action. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Valerie Frias, Chair, Brookline School Committee (via email: valerie_frias@psbma.org)  
 Ben Kaufman, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@brooklinema.gov) 
Maria Kogan (via email: ) 
 
 
 
8 In her request to our office for further review of the complaint, the Complainant assert s that the Committee’s 
violation was intentional. In support of this contention, the Complainant notes that the Committee anticipated 
discussing designating Eid al-Fitr as a Category I holiday during its October 10 meeting. Additionally, the 
Complainant notes that during the October 10 meeting a Committee member warned that they did not believe that 
adding a Category I holiday was sufficiently included on the meeting notice and yet the Committee proceeded 
anyway, with another member stating that they believed it was permissible to discuss the topic even though not 
explicitly included on the notice because the Committee had discussed the topic before and members were 
expressing opinions that had already been expressed. 
 
An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the 
Open Me
eting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with 
deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We decline to find an intentional violation here. We have not previously warned the Committee 
against the violation found. Furthermore, although the Committee anticipated discussing the Eid al-Fitr holiday and 
a member raised concerns during the meeting that the notice may have been insufficient, the Committee proceeded 
based on a sincere—albeit incorrect—belief that under the circumstances the notice was adequate. Therefore, we do 
not find that the Committee acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law.  

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 