===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 14, 2022 
OML 2022 – 42 
VIA EMAIL 
Mark Efstratiou 
Chairperson, Billerica School Committee 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Efstratiou: 
This office received a complaint from Doreen Healy on September 10, 2021, alleging that 
the Billerica School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 3, and you
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 27.1  The complaint alleges that
the Committee failed to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes for a July 29 meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, and email correspondence regarding Ms. Healy’s request for meeting minutes.   
Requests for meeting minutes may fall under the Public Records Law or the Open 
Meeting Law, depending on how the request is made, and the requirements for responding differ.  
A request for meeting minutes that is directed to a public body will fall under the Open Meeting 
Law and requires a response within 10 calendar days.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (g); OML 
2019-163. 2  Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law provides that meeting minutes must be 
provided if they exist, even if in draft form.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (“Minutes of all open sessions 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021.  
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
shall be created and approved in a timely manner.  The minutes of an open session, if they exist 
and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person 
within 10 days.”).  On the other hand, a request for minutes that is directed to a clerk or other 
municipal employee as Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law and 
requires a response in 10 business days.  See G.L. c. 66, § 10; OML 2019-126; OML 2019-68.  
Significantly, the Public Records Law contains numerous exemptions to disclosure, which do not 
exist in the Open Meeting Law.  Compare G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) with G.L. c. 4, § 7(26)(a)-(v). 
 
On July 30, Ms. Healy sent an email to Robin Hulsoor, the Director of Finance and 
Operations for Billerica Public Schools.  The email contained the subject line “PRR” and stated, 
in its entirety, “Public Records Request / Requesting a copy of the minutes regarding the 
Billerica School Committee Special Meeting- Summer Retreat held on July 29, 2021 / Thank 
you / Doreen Healy.”  Ms. Hulsoor responded on August 3, “The minutes from the School 
Committee meeting held on July 29, 2021 are not available until approved by the School 
Committee. Please refer to the School Committee web page for approved meeting minutes. I 
have attached the link below.”  Ms. Healy and Ms. Hulsoor then exchanged additional emails 
regarding whether the minutes as recorded during the meeting are considered “draft minutes” 
that must be provided.  Minutes were not provided to Ms. Healy within ten days of her request, 
but on August 20 draft minutes were presented to the Committee for its approval, and the draft 
minutes were provided to Ms. Healy thereafter.   
 
We find that where Ms. Healy’s request for meeting minutes was clearly presented as a 
public records request, and was submitted to the Director of Finance and Operations for Billerica 
Public Schools rather than to the Committee itself, the request was governed by the Public 
Records Law rather than the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law when it declined to provide the recording secretary’s notes from the July 29 
meeting.  We take no position as to whether the Director of Finance’s response to the request 
complied with the Public Records Law, and recommend that the complainant contact the Public 
Records Division within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Office if she has questions 
regarding compliance with the Public Records Law. 
 
Although we find that the instant request for meeting minutes was submitted as a request 
under the Public Records Law and therefore did not implicate the Open Meeting Law’s response 
procedures, we take this opportunity to remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law does 
require that draft minutes, if they exist, be provided if requested from the Committee.  
Typewritten or even handwritten notes that are taken during a meeting may be considered draft 
minutes that must be provided upon request in accordance with the Open Meeting Law, 
depending on the form the notes are in.  In the past, we have said that notes that lack sufficient 
detail and clarity such that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred, do not rise to the level of “draft 
minutes.”  See OML 2018-155.  The fact that notes are taken on a laptop during a meeting rather 
than by hand does not automatically mean that they are considered draft minutes; the form and 
content matters more than the format.  See OML 2018-117; OML 2013-31.  We do not 
determine here whether the notes that were taken during the July 29 meeting contained sufficient 
detail and clarity such that they may have been considered draft minutes. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Doreen Healy – By email only:  
Tim Piwowar, Superintendent – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
