===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass .gov/ago 
August 11, 2016 
OML 2016 - 109 
Bruce A. Assad, Esq. 
16 Bedford Street, Suite 3A 
PO Box 1268 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Assad: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 21, alleging that 
the Fall River School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
March 8, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by letter dated 
March 18. In his complaint, Mr. Fliggins alleges that the notice for the Committee's 
March 8 meeting failed to specifically identify the applicants to be interviewed for a 
position. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and a video-recording of the Committee's 
March 8, 2016 meeting, which is available on the local cable channel.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee interviewed one candidate for the 
position of Administrative Assistant during its March 8 meeting. The meeting notice, 
posted on March 4, listed this topic as follows: "Interview applicants for the position of 
Administrative Assistant for School Committee Services." The applicant pool was initially 
three candidates, two of whom were to be interviewed at the meeting. One candidate 
dropped out a day before, leaving one remaining candidate to be interviewed at the 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Available at http://vod.frgtv.us/page/l. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
meeting. At the time it posted the meeting notice, however, the Committee knew the 
identities of all three candidates, although it did not include their names on the notice, A 
day before the meeting, counsel for the Committee reached out to our office for guidance 
on whether the topic was sufficient. Based on the information provided to us, we advised 
counsel that a topic such as the one the Committee had listed was sufficiently detailed, 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based," GhiRlione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a 
public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G,L, c, 30A, § 
20(b), Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting," 
940 CMR 29.03(I)(b), We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the nature of the 
public body's anticipated discussion. See OML 2015-35,3 
The complainant asserts that the topic in the Committee's March 8 meeting notice 
regarding the interviews for the position of Administrative Assistant should have included 
the names of the applicants, A day before the meeting, our office provided guidance to the 
Committee that, based on the information provided to us, a topic such as the one the 
Committee had listed, "Interview applicants for the position of Administrative Assistant 
for School Committee Services," sufficiently described the anticipated discussion such that 
anyone interested in the Committee's interview of applicants for the position had sufficient 
information to decide whether to attend the meeting. See OML 2016-53; OML 2015-155; 
OML 2014-60; see also OML 2013-152 (notice topic was sufficiently specific even though 
additional detail may have been helpful to the public). Accordingly, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting the names of the applicants 
from the notice. Nevertheless, we suggest that the Committee identify applicants for 
interview in future notices because it provides the public with important information about 
the candidates under the Committee's consideration. See OML 2015-196, 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law, We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www,mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 