===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
M ARTHA C OAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
August 4, 2014 
OML 2014-93 
Richard A. Gelerman, Esq. 
Gelerman and Cabral, LLC 
30 Walpole St. 
Norwood, MA 02062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Gelerman: 
This office received two complaints from Heather Harding (the complainant), both dated 
January 17, 2014, alleging that the Foxborough Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. These complaints were originally filed with the 
Board on November 15, 2013 and December 17, 2013, respectively. The Board responded to the 
November 15, 2013 complaint by letter dated November 22, 2013. You responded, on behalf of 
the Board, to the December 17, 2013 complaint by letter dated January 9, 2014.' The November 
15, 2013 complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board serially deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting on October 31, 2013. The December 17, 2013 complaint alleges that, during the events 
at issue in the November 15, 2013 complaint, two members of the Board acted as a 
subcommittee without following the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
Following our review, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed complaints filed with the Board; the Board's responses; and the 
complaints filed with our office. We also spoke with counsel for the Town in June and July 
2014 as well as with Randy Scollins, Finance Director for the Town, in June 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of five members, thus three members 
constitute a quorum. These complaints center on two meetings that occurred on October 31, 
2013. No public notice was posted for either meeting, and neither was open to the public. In 
attendance at each meeting were Randy Scollins, Finance Director for the Town, and Dan 
Murphy of the Kraft Group. 
In the morning. Chair Mark Sullivan, accompanied by Mr. Scollins and Police Chief 
Edward O'Leary, met with two representatives of the Kraft Group, including Mr. Murphy. The 
For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
1 
o 
===PAGE 2===
agenda for this meeting concerned strategies to make police details at Patriot Place more efficient 
and to enhance public safety. 
Later that afternoon, at the request of Mr. Murphy, Chair Mark Sullivan was scheduled to 
meet with representatives of the Kraft Group to discuss changes to an agreement previously 
negotiated between the Town and the Kraft Group whereby the Kraft Group, in exchange for 
developing Patriot Place, paid mitigation fees to the Town. Chair Sullivan did not wish to attend 
this meeting alone and asked fellow Board member Lorraine Brue to accompany him. Prior to 
the start of the meeting, Chair Sullivan became unable to attend. Board member Brue thought it 
best to include another member of the Board in the discussion and so brought Virginia M. 
Coppola to the meeting. Mr. Scollins also attended this meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaints allege that, taken together, the morning and afternoon meetings of 
October 31, 2013 constituted improper serial deliberation by a quorum of the Board. 
Alternatively, she asserts, the afternoon meeting on October 31, 2013 was an unposted meeting 
of a subcommittee of the Board. We find no evidence to support either allegation. 
In general, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(a),(b). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A deliberation is "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "'quorum" is, generally, a simple majority of 
the members of a public body. Id. 
A public body may not engage in a serial deliberation, whereby a quorum communicates 
in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter within the public body's 
jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 648-49 (2008). Furthermore, a 
public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication on 
matters that the Board would otherwise save for discussion at an open meeting. See District 
Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Way land. 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 
(2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by 
conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the 
telephone, or in any other form."). Implicit in this definition is the requirement that each 
discussion in the serial deliberation concern the same matter. See OML 2014-9. 
Neither of the two meetings held on October 31, 2013 involved a quorum of the Board. 
The complainant asserts, however, that a quorum of the Board's members serially deliberated by 
holding two consecutive meetings, each involving a subquorum, on that date. We credit the 
account of Mr. Scollins, a common participant in both meetings, and find that the morning and 
afternoon meetings involved two different and unrelated topics. There is no evidence that the 
substance of the morning meeting was discussed during the afternoon meeting, or vice versa, and 
the complainant does not allege that any communication on either matter occurred outside of 
these meetings. Accordingly, we find that the two meetings did not constitute serial deliberation 
in violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-9. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaints also allege, in the alternative, that the second meeting constituted an 
unposted meeting of a subcommittee of the Board. A "subcommittee" is defined as a multiple-
member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
We find that the two members who met with the Kraft Group on the afternoon of October 31, 
2014 were not a subcommittee required to post notice under the law. The Board did not create 
this group and the meeting participants were not otherwise assigned the task of advising or 
making recommendations to the Board on any subject. Rather, Mr. Murphy requested a meeting 
with Chair Sullivan. Chair Sullivan invited Board member Brue because he did not wish to 
attend the meeting alone. When Chair Sullivan was no longer able to attend. Board member 
Brue invited Board member Coppola to attend in his place, for similar reasons. This ad hoc 
meeting of less than a quorum of the Board's members did not constitute a subcommittee. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Further, because there was not a quorum of the Board itself present, there was 
no deliberation necessitating a posted meeting. See id.; OML 2013-169. We therefore find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. We now 
consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other matters that may be 
pending before the Board or this office. Please feel free to call us at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Divison of Open Government 
cc: Foxborough Board of Selectmen 
Heather Harding 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 