===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 2,2019 
OML 2019-22
Edmund St. John, III, Esq.
2 Center Street 
PO Box 228 
Adams, MA 01220
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney St. John:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 24, alleging that the 
Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally with the Board on or about July 2, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by email on July 19. In his complaint, 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board failed to list the candidates for reappointment on its 
June 20 meeting notice. Mr. Higgins also alleges that the Board failed to approve certain 
meeting minutes in a timely manner.2
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board’s June 20 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On June 20, the Board held a meeting, in part, to 
approve the minutes from its meetings held on March 26; March 28; and April 4. Between
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 Mr. Higgins references additional meeting minutes which were approved more than 30 days prior to the 
filing of this complaint. The Open Meeting Law states that complaints must be filed with the public body 
within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). When a public body approves open session 
minutes, any complaints regarding the timely creation, approval, sufficiency, or accuracy of those minutes 
must be filed within 30 days of the meeting during which they were approved. See OML Declination 9-4-12 
Manchester-by-the-Sea Zoning Board of Appeals. Accordingly, we decline to review the additional meeting 
minutes cited in the complaint.
o

===PAGE 2===
the March 26 and June 20 meetings, the Board held meetings on March 28; April 4; April 
11; April 18; April 25; May 2; May 8; May 16; May 23; May 24; May 30; June 6; June 13. 
Also during the June 20 meeting, under “New Business,” the Board considered a list of 
annual appointments, listing the topic on the notice as “2018-2019 Annual Appointments.” 
According to the meeting minutes, a Board member read the annual appointments for 
2018, which were unanimously approved, except for one.
DISCUSSION
I. The Board Failed to Timely Approve its Meeting Minutes.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting 
minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The 
Open Meeting Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the 
next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public 
body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014- 
15; OML 2012-91.3
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve certain meeting 
minutes. During its June 20 meeting, the Board approved its minutes for meetings held on 
March 26; March 28; and April 4. The Board held 13 meetings between March 26 and 
June 20. Here, the Board was required to approve each set of minutes within 30 days of 
the meeting as that was the later of the two time periods. See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 
2018-111. Because the Board reviewed and approved them on June 20, more than 30 days 
after each meeting, it did not approve them in a timely manner. Accordingly, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law.
II. The Board Should Have Listed the Individuals Considered for Annual
Appointments on its June 20 Meeting Notice.
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must 
include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2015-35.
The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to specify the individuals to be 
considered for appointment on its June 20 meeting notice. The Board concedes that this 
information should have been included on or with the notice. We agree and take this 
opportunity to explain our position. We had previously advised public bodies that a 
meeting notice should typically identify each annual appointment, license, or application 
that will be considered at the meeting, but that when doing so would result in the notice 
consisting of many pages that cannot fit on a bulletin board, a public body may instead 
reference on the notice that such additional information can be found at the municipal 
clerk’s office or at another easily accessible location. However, the Suffolk Superior Court 
recently found this approach to be arbitrary, because the determination of whether it is 
practical to post a certain number of pages on a bulletin board is subjective. See Swansea 
v. Maura Healey, Civil Action No. 2017-3269-E (Suffolk Sup. Ct. October 29, 2018). We 
therefore take the opportunity here to amend our guidance to conform with prior 
determinations that had required the specific information to be included on or with the 
notice.4 See OML 2016-167; OML 2011-11. It will no longer be acceptable for a meeting 
notice to refer members of the public to another location to find the required information; it 
must be included on or with the notice itself. Accordingly, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to list the individuals being considered for appointment on its June 
20 meeting notice. Because the Board did not have the benefit of this guidance, we order 
no further relief.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to approve its March 26; March 28 and April 4 meeting minutes in a timely 
manner and by failing to include sufficient detail on its June 20 meeting notice. We order 
the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have
4 The minutes do not reflect the individuals and/or positions being considered for the appointments. We take 
this opportunity to remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record 
of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of 
the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2017-169; OML 2015-61.
3

===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
A .-N A
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
Adams Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
