===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 17, 2015 
OML 2015-120 
Ira H. Zaleznik 
Lawson & Weitzen, LLP 
66 Black Falcon Avenue, Suite 345 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Zaleznik: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Neil Rossman, dated May 26, alleging 
that the Revere Retirement Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive session for an 
improper purpose during its April 29 meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Board 
on May 1. The Board responded by letter dated May 14. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. We reviewed the notice for, and the open 
session minutes of, the Board's April 29 meeting. Additionally, we reviewed, in camera, the 
executive session minutes of the Board's April 29 meeting. Finally, we reviewed letters from the 
Board's attorney, addressed to our office, dated June 4 and June 23.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board met in open session on April 29. Following 
discussion of administrative matters and approval of meeting minutes, the Board entered into 
executive session, "to discuss legal matters with Board counsel involving pending and/or 
possible future litigation." After a unanimous roll call vote, the Board entered into executive 
session. The Board has not publicly released the executive session minutes for this meeting, thus 
we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that, during the executive 
session, the Board discussed with counsel the merits of Richard Clarke's application for 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity we will refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
accidental disability retirement benefits but did not discuss strategy with respect to any pending 
litigation or potential litigation. 
The Board reconvened in open session after approximately 45 minutes. The Board then 
proceeded to discuss Mr. Clarke's application for accidental disability retirement benefits. 
Following its discussion, the Board voted to request additional information from Mr. Clarke. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose permits a public body to enter into executive session to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not 
sufficient to invoke executive session Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30.3 Litigation 
must be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. 
See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-
43. When entering executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the 
litigation matter or bargaining unit that it intends to discuss, if doing so will not compromise the 
executive session purpose. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91. While 
we generally defer to a public body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information 
would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to 
demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
Here, the Board entered into executive session during its April 29 meeting, using 
language suggesting its intent was to enter under Puipose 3, but discussed matters unrelated to 
litigation strategy. Rather, the Board discussed with counsel the merits of an application 
submitted to the Board for accidental disability retirement benefits. In response to the complaint. 
Board counsel writes that, "[t]he motion was made to go into executive session to discuss legal 
matters with Board counsel involving pending and/or possible future litigating position of the 
Board." From our review of the executive session minutes, we disagree that the discussion 
involved pending and/or possible future litigation. Rather, the discussion involved the merits of 
Mr. Clarke's application for accidental disability retirement benefits. Additionally, the Board 
sought the advice of its counsel regarding its review of the application, but not with respect to 
any litigation strategy. Because the Board's discussion did not fit within any of the ten 
enumerated purposes for executive session, this discussion should have occurred during open 
session. 
Our office does not quarrel with the right of the Board to consult with counsel. See 
District Attorney for Plymouth District v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough. 395 Mass. 629, 
633 (Mass. 1985); OML 2011 - 27. However, communication between counsel and a quorum of 
a public body may occur only during a properly posted open meeting or during an executive 
session held for one of the ten enumerated purposes. OML 2012-55; OML 2011-27; OML 2010-
6. The attorney-client privilege itself is not an explicitly enumerated basis for executive session. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.nov/ago/oDenmeetina. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). This discussion should, therefore, have occurred either in open 
session, or in executive session under G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a)(1) (to discuss the physical or mental 
health of an individual, provided that the individual is given notice and the opportunity to be 
present during the executive session discussion). Because its discussion was not appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 3, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.4 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session 
during its April 29 meeting for an improper purpose. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a similar, future 
violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. Additionally, we 
order the Board to publicly release the minutes of its April 29 executive session within thirty (30) 
days of receipt of this letter. Because these discussions were not appropriate for executive 
session, the Board may not withhold or redact any portion of the minutes related to these 
discussions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (The minutes of an executive session may be withheld 
from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful puiposes of an 
executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.)', OML 2014-17. 
We now consider this matter closed. This letter does not resolve any other complaints 
that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at 
617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Attorney Neil Rossman 
Revere Retirement Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 We note that, even if the executive session discussion had been proper under Purpose 3, the Board should have, 
prior to entering into executive session, publicly identified the litigation matter or potential litigation matter that it 
was entering executive session to discuss. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2014-145; OML 2013-91. 
3 