===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 14, 2016 
OML 2016-153 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris, dated June 6, alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 20, and, after an 
extension of time was granted, the Committee responded by letter dated May 13. In his 
complaint, Mr. Hams alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing 
to respond to a request for executive session minutes in a timely manner, and (ii) failing to 
review unreleased executive session minutes at its next meeting or within 30 days. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also spoke with Town Counsel Mark 
Lanza by telephone on October 17. 
We find the facts as follows. On March 22, the complainant sent an e-mail to the 
Committee chair requesting all minutes of executive sessions during which the Committee 
discussed an alleged larceny committed by the former Athletic Director of the Wayland Public 
Schools. At the time of this request, the executive session minutes at issue had not been publicly 
released. On March 31, the Committee chair sent the complainant an e-mail, stating that the 
Committee would review the requested executive session minutes during the Committee's 
upcoming April 7 meeting. 
The Committee met on April 7 as planned. The Committee convened in executive 
session to discuss the potential release of the requested executive session minutes. At the 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
conclusion of this discussion, the Committee decided that Town Counsel should review the 
minutes for potential redactions prior to any vote to release them. 
On April 8, the Committee chair e-mailed the Division of Open Government requesting 
an extension of time until April 26 in order to vote on the potential release of the requested 
minutes during its April 25 meeting. The complainant was copied on this e-mail. On April 12, 
the Committee scheduled a special meeting for April 15 to review the requested minutes. On 
April 14, our office responded by e-mail, stating that we could not authorize an extension of time 
to respond to a request for executive session minutes. 
The Committee held its April 15 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the 
Committee reviewed Town Counsel's redactions. The Committee chair, believing further 
discussion was necessary, scheduled another meeting for April 21. The Committee met on April 
21 as planned and voted to release the redacted executive session minutes. The redacted minutes 
were sent to the complainant on April 22. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that certain 
executive session minutes should be released, it should respond to the requester directly, 
notifying him or her of the availability of those minutes. See OML 2013-99.2 If the body has 
determined that executive session minutes should remain confidential because publication would 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason the 
minutes continue to be withheld. Id. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not 
conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued non-disclosure is warranted, 
the body must perform such a review and release any non-exempt no later than its next meeting 
or within 30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the 
body should still respond to the requestor within ten days, notifying him or her that it is 
conducting this review. See OML 2013-99; OML 2012-86. 
I. The Committee Responded to the Complainant's Request Within Ten Days. 
The complainant requested the executive session minutes at issue on March 22. The 
Committee chair responded on March 31, stating that the minutes would be reviewed at the April 
7 meeting. This satisfied the Committee's obligation to respond to a request for minutes within 
ten days, notifying the requestor that a review would be conducted. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); 
OML 2013-105. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
II. The Committee Reviewed and Released Executive Session Minutes Within the 
Time Frame Required by Law. 
After receiving the request, the Committee met on April 7 and 15 before voting to release 
the minutes during its April 21 meeting. During this period, the Committee was working with 
Town Counsel to determine what portions of the requested executive session minutes, if any, 
could be produced, and what portions might be exempt from disclosure due to attorney-client 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
privilege or to which an ongoing executive session purpose might apply. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that public bodies must perform a review of requested executive session minutes 
and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body's next 
meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs first. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2) (emphasis added). 
Here, the determination of what minutes might be exempt required legal advice, and the record 
shows that the Committee was actively engaged in a dialogue with Town Counsel about how to 
comply with the request. The Committee could therefore not determine earlier than its April 21 
meeting which minutes, or portions thereof, were non-exempt minutes responsive to the 
complainant's request. We note further that the Committee voted to release the minutes 30 days 
from the date of the request. On these facts, we find that the Committee reviewed and released 
executive session minutes within the time frame required by the law, and we therefore find no 
violation with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Town Counsel 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 