===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 87 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Latrina Denson 
President, Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of Trustees 
Ldenson@pvpa.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Latrina Denson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Emily Pfeiffer on May 24,
1 alleging that the 
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on April 24, and you responded on behalf of the Board by email dated May 13. The 
complaint alleges that the Board approved minutes of its meeting of March 11 that were not 
sufficiently detailed.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, a video recording of the Board’s March 11 
meeting, and the original and revised minutes of the Board’s March 11 meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held an open session on March 11. During the 
first 30 minutes of the March 11 meeting, fourteen speakers provided public comments for 
approximately one to two minutes each. Two of the speakers stated that they had submitted 
letters to the Board and read excerpts from their submitted letters for one to two minutes.  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Minutes of the March 11 meeting can be found at https://app2.boardontrack.com/public/rP7tEC/minutes/97143 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
At its meeting on April 8, the Board approved minutes of the March 11 meeting.3  The 
minutes set forth the duration of the public comment period and the time allotted to each speaker, 
but no summary of the substance of the comments. After the Open Meeting Law complaint was 
filed, the Board released revised minutes that included the name of each speaker and a summary 
of the public comments of all speakers except those who had submitted letters.  The revised 
minutes include the names of those who submitted letters but do not summarize what they read 
during the meeting. 
 
On or about June 10, the complainant sent this office an email alleging that the revised 
minutes released by the Board were still insufficient, that the Board had followed improper 
procedure by failing to vote to accept the revised minutes, and that the Board had violated the 
privacy of speakers who provided public comment by including their names in the revised 
minutes.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). One of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law that 
serves to eliminate such secrecy is the requirement that public bodies “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A § 22(a). The  
minutes must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, 
a summ
ary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id. When reviewing meeting minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we 
look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2024-189; OML 2018-
151.4 Substantial compliance means that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. Although a transcript is not required and the minutes do 
not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a summary of the 
discussions that took place during the meeting. See OML 2021-190; OML 2021-137.  
 
The complaint alleges that the origi
 nal minutes of the March 11 meeting are insufficient 
as they fail to summarize comments made by members of the public during the meeting. During 
the meeting, fourteen members of the public made comments concerning alleged misconduct by 
a school administrator. However, the minutes of the Board’s March 11 meeting, as originally 
approved, only described the duration of the public comments with no summary of the substance 
of the comments. The complainant asserts that the minutes, therefore, fail to capture the gravity 
of the concerns raised during the public comment period. The Board acknowledges, and we 
agree, that the minutes, as originally approved, do not include an accurate summary of the public 
comments made during the March 11 meeting. A public body is not required to capture every 
comment made during a meeting in order to substantially comply with the accuracy requirement 
of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-4; OML 2019-136 (finding that minutes substantially 
 
3Minutes of the April 8 meeting can be found at https://app2.boardontrack.com/public/rP7tEC/minutes/98345 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement when member of the public spoke during a public 
comment period and the minutes captured some of the complainant's comments but, according to 
the complainant, failed to capture at least ten points the complainant included in her remarks). 
Here, however, the original minutes do not include any summary of the public comments at all. 
As such, we find that the Board created insufficiently detailed minutes by failing to include any 
summary of the statements, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2024-127; OML 
2023-226; OML 2023-56. 
 
After receiving the complaint, the Bo
 ard revised the minutes of its March 11 meeting to 
include a summary of the public comments. After reviewing a recording of the March 11 
meeting, we find that these revised minutes remain insufficiently detailed, as they do not 
adequately capture public comments made by the two speakers who submitted letters. The 
minutes only state that these two speakers “sent a letter to the Board,” and exclude the subject 
matter of these letters, even though the speakers recited the content of their letters for nearly all 
of their allocated speaking time. While a transcript of these two public comments is not required, 
meeting minutes must include more than a note that a statement was read or submitted. See OML 
2024-50 (minutes which simply noted that statement was read but contained no summary of the 
same were insufficiently detailed); OML 2016-35 (minutes which noted that complainant “read a 
prepared statement” and attached statement to minutes were insufficiently detailed). As such, we 
find that the Board’s revised minutes are insufficiently detailed as they fail to include summaries 
of these two public comments, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Id. 
 
In an email dated June 10, the complainant alleges that (1) 
 the Board violated the privacy 
of speakers by including their names in the revised meeting minutes and (2) the board followed 
improper procedure by not conducting a vote to accept the revised minutes. We decline to review 
these allegations, as our review is limited to the allegations of violations of the Open Meeting 
Law that were clearly and sufficiently raised in the original complaint filed with the public body. 
See G.L. c. 30A § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-133, n.4 (explaining that we decline to 
review allegations not raised in the original complaint).5 
 
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s violation was, as the Complainant urges, 
inte
ntional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omissions by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.01. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Board against the violation found here, nor 
do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we 
decline to find that the violation was intentional.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes of its meeting on March 11. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and we caution that similar future violations may 
 
5 Although we decline to review the additional allegations, we note that the Open Meeting Law does not govern the 
method for approving meeting minutes or the handling of private information in open session minutes.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Furthermore, we order the Board, within 
thirty days of receipt of this letter, to amend the minutes of the March 11 meeting to include a 
summary of the public comments made by the two speakers who read from letters they submitted 
to the Board. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Rishab Ramamurthy, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc:  Emily Pfeiffer (via email: ) 
Sarah B. Gmeiner, South Hadley Town Clerk (via email: sgmeiner@southhadleyma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
