===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 210 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq. 
KP Law 
briley@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on June 6, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Freetown Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 26, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated June 16. The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when, on May 18, all three members of the Board attended an assembly at the 
Freetown Elementary School and answered students’ questions without having posted notice for 
a meeting. The complaint additionally alleges that the Board failed to announce that the event 
was being recorded.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, and a video recording of the May 18 assembly.
2 
 
Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of ever meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” Id. However, this definition includes 
several exceptions, including that the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or 
private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, social or other event” 
shall not constitute a meeting, “so long as the members do not deliberate.” Id. “Deliberation” is 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the May 18 assembly may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_BPdUwwAxc. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
The Open Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the 
general public. See OML 2020-139.
3 Rather, the Open Meeting Law restricts communication 
between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a properly noticed meeting. Therefore, 
the communicator’s intent in communicating is significant and must be examined. See OML 
2021-66 (comments made by a public body member to a member of the public explaining the 
public body member’s reasoning and concerns did not constitute deliberation); OML 2020-139 
(a public body member’s comments regarding public body business that were posted to a large 
Facebook group were clearly directed to members of the public and therefore did not constitute 
deliberation); see also OML 2020-19; OML 2023-151.  
 
The May 18 assembly was intended to allow third-grade students to engage with and ask 
questions of the Board. During the assembly students asked the Board a wide range of questions 
including questions about Board members’ personal reasons for and feelings about serving on 
the Board, questions about governmental processes, and questions about the status of various 
projects in town. After reviewing a video recording of the May 18 assembly, we find that in 
answering the students’ questions, the Board did not deliberate. See OML 2020-127. Because the 
Board did not deliberate during the May 18 assembly, the assembly was not a meeting for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law and the Board was not required to post notice or announce 
that the assembly was being recorded.  
  
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
For the reasons stated above we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Freetown Board of Selectmen c/o Deborah Pettey , Town Administrator (via email: 
townadministrator@freetownma.gov) 
Cheryl C.A. Estrella, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@freetownma.gov)   
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
