===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
January 30, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 9 
 
 
BY EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael Donaroma 
Chair, Edgartown Selectboard 
c/o James Hagerty, Town Administrator 
jhagerty@edgartown-ma.us 
 
 RE: Op
 en Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Donaroma: 
 
This office received a com
 plaint from Rich Saltzberg of the Martha’s Vineyard Times on 
June 15, 2022, alleging that the Edgartown Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 21, 
2022, and the Board responded by letter dated April 6, 2022.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board approved insufficiently detailed meeting minutes for executive sessions held on January 
24, 2011, May 12, 2015, May 15, 2015, and May 20, 2015.   
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving insufficiently detailed minutes for executive sessions held at 3:00 p.m. on May 12, 
2015, and on May 15 and 18, 2015.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, 
the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also 
reviewed the open and executive session minutes for the meeting dates at issue in the complaint. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION1 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes need not include every 
remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  Nonetheless, 
we recommend that public bodies follow best practices when possible.  In particular, we 
encourage public bodies to include dissenting or minority opinions whenever feasible.  Where 
significant debate on a matter occurs and it is clear that one or more members of the body and/or 
the public disagree with the decision ultimately taken by the public body, public bodies should 
note the opposing viewpoints in the meeting minutes.  See OML 2019-163.  While it is not 
necessary to record the comments of every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing 
so where there are many speakers whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual 
speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that 
person and his or her comments should be identified in the minutes.  See id; OML 2012-29.  
Minutes of executive sessions must include the same level of detail as is required for open 
sessions.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2022-233; OML 2020-53. 
 
Moreover, the Open Meeting Law requires that the minutes of a public body’s mee
 ting 
include a list of all documents and exhibits used by the public body during the 
meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2012-91.  The law does not define what it means for a 
document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is 
physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public 
body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42.  As such, any documents that are 
 
1 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Board of its obligation to review executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals to determine whether the executive session minutes will be made public.  We find no indication 
that prior to the Complainant’s request in 2022, the Board had reviewed and publicly released the 2011 and 2015 
executive session minutes at issue in this complaint.  Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to 
the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”   G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public 
records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation 
to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non -disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its review.   See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(1); OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.  Although the Open Meeting Law does not define “reasonable intervals,” 
we have found that quarterly reviews or reviews every six months satisfy the law.   See OML 2022-90; OML 2017-
104; OML 2015-166. 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
physically present, verbally identified, and discussed during a meeting must be separately listed 
in the minutes.  It is not enough that those documents are simply referenced in the body of the 
minutes or that the minutes include a digital link to the documents.  See OML 2019-29; OML 
2018-70.  
 
January 24, 2011, Meeting Minutes 
 
 The complaint alleges that the January 24, 2011, executive session meeting minutes are 
insufficient insofar as they 1) do not list the start time for the executive session; 2) do not contain 
a list of documents or exhibits used during the meeting; and 3) include an insufficiently detailed 
summary of the discussions.
3  First, we do not find that the omission of a start time for the 
executive session violated the Open Meeting Law.  The Board met in open session before 
moving into executive session to discuss one topic.  The minutes of the open session state that 
the meeting began at 4:00 p.m. and that the Board voted at 4:18 p.m. to move into executive 
session.  We have not construed the Open Meeting Law as requiring meeting minutes to 
separately list the start time of an executive session nor the start time for particular discussion 
topics.  See OML 2022-196; OML 2022-141.  Moreover, here, the open session minutes do 
specify the time that the Board voted to move into executive session.  The Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law by omitting this information from the executive session minutes.   
 
 Ne
xt, we find no indication that the Board used any documents or exhibits during the 
executive session, and therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include such a list.  During the executive session, the Board agreed to grant a particular police 
sergeant 30 days of paid leave from the sick leave bank.  There is no suggestion or indication 
that any particular documents or exhibits were used in the course of that discussion.  
 
 Finally, we do not find that the minutes include an insufficiently detailed summary of the 
discussion that took place.  The minutes of the executive session, which lasted approximately 20 
minutes, state “The Edgartown Patrolman’s Association voted to grant Sgt. Richard Krauss 30 
days from the Sick Leave Bank. The Board of Selectmen is required to concur with that vote.  //  
The Selectmen agreed to concur and added they would agree to award another 30 if it is needed 
prior to Sgt. Krauss’s retirement.”  We acknowledge that more detail likely could have been 
included and may have been helpful to the public.  However, where the minutes pertain to a 
meeting that took place 12 years ago and we have no specific information as to what else was 
discussed, we are unable to conclude that the brief summary—which documented the nature of 
the discussion, the reason Board approval was needed, the outcome of the Board’s action, and a 
comment about possible further consideration—was insufficient. 
 
May 12, 2015, Meeting Minutes 
 
 The complaint alleges that the minutes for two executive sessions held on May 12, 2015, 
are insufficient insofar as they 1) do not contain a list of documents or exhibits used during the 
meeting; 2) include an insufficiently detailed summary of the discussions; and 3) do not include 
the full name of the police lieutenant who was discussed. 
 
3 The Complainant withdrew an additional allegation that the minutes do not include the last name of the individual 
who was discussed during the meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 The minutes of the 3:00 p.m. executive session state, “Mr. Collins gave an update on 
Pol
ice Sergeant Jonathan Searle.  //  There was discussion.  The Board decided that Mr. 
Donaroma and Atty. Rappaport would work with Sgt. Searle for the best mutual outcome.”  The 
Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public 
body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the 
substance of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  
Although the discussion was brief, lasting approximately 10 minutes, we find the minutes 
insufficient where they merely state that a discussion took place without summarizing the 
discussion that occurred.  We do not find the minutes insufficient in the other ways alleged; the 
minutes clearly include a first and last name of the individual who was discussed and there is no 
indication that any documents or exhibits were used during this executive session. 
 
The m
inutes of the 3:30 p.m. executive session state, “At 3:30pm Mr. Donaroma opened 
the meeting and moved to go into executive session for contract negotiations.  Mr. Smadbeck 
seconded. To which they held a rollcall vote and all voted aye.  //  There was no discussion.  //  
At 3:32pm Mr. Donaroma moved to continue the executive session meeting to May 15, 2015 at 
3:30pm.  Mr. Smadbeck seconded.  Unanimous.”  Where the minutes clearly document that no 
discussion took place during a meeting lasting less than two minutes, and the Board merely voted 
to continue the meeting to a specified future date and time, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
May 15, 2015, Mee
 ting Minutes 
 
 The complaint alleges that the minutes for the May 15, 2015, executive session ar e 
insufficient insofar as they 1) do not contain a list of documents or exhibits used during the 
meeting; 2) include an insufficiently detailed summary of the discussions; and 3) do not include 
the full name of the police lieutenant who was discussed.  The minutes of the May 15 executive 
session reflect that Chief Rossi and Lieutenant Dolby attended the executive session.  The 
minutes further state, “At 3:30pm Mr. Donarorna opened the meeting and moved to go into 
executive session for contract negotiations.  Mr. Smadbeck seconded.  To which they held a 
rollcall vote and all voted aye.  //  Contract negotiation discussion ensued. They would meet 
again to finalize the contracts.  //  At 3:45pm Mr. Donarorna moved to adjourn. Mr. Smadbeck 
seconded. Unanimous.”  For a meeting lasting approximately 15 minutes, we find the minutes 
insufficient where they merely state that contract discussions took place without including any 
summary of the discussions or negotiations that took place, such as an identification of the issues 
being negotiated or the proposals from the parties.  We do not find the minutes insufficient in the 
other ways alleged.  We are unable to conclude that any particular document—such as a prior 
contract or draft contract—was used in the course of the negotiations; the Board denies any 
documents were used during the meeting and we are unpersuaded by the Complainant’s assertion 
that such documents must have been used.  Finally, we have not construed the Open Meeting 
Law as requiring meeting minutes to include first and last names, especially where, as here, the 
minutes identify the individuals in question using identifying titles: Chief Rossi and Lieutenant 
Dolby.  See OML 2022-196, n. 2.   
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
May 20, 2015, Meeting Minutes 
 
 The complaint alleges that the minutes for the May 20, 2015, executive session are 
insufficient insofar as they 1) do not contain a list of documents or exhibits used during the 
meeting; 2) include an insufficiently detailed summary of the discussions; and 3) do not include 
the full name of the police lieutenant who was discussed.  The minutes of the May 20 executive 
session reflect that Chief Rossi and Lieutenant Dolby attended the executive session.  The 
minutes further state, “At 4:30pm Mr. Donaroma opened the meeting and moved to go into 
executive session for contract negotiations.  Mr. Smadbeck seconded.  To which they held a 
rollcall vote and all voted aye.  //  Contract negotiation discussion ensued.  //  Mr. Donaroma 
moved to go into open session at 4:40pm.”  Back in open session, the Board voted to approve 
new contracts for Chief Rossi and Lieutenant Dolby.  For the same reasons we find the May 15, 
2015, executive session meeting minutes insufficient, we also find the summary of the 
discussions in the May 20, 2015, meeting minutes insufficient.   
 
We Decline to Find the Board’s Violations to be Intentional 
 
Finally, we must determine if the violations were,  as the Complainant alleges, intentional.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  The only basis for the Complainant’s assertion that the Board’s 
violations were intentional is the Board’s insistence that its meeting minutes complied with the 
Open Meeting Law and its resulting unwillingness to voluntarily redraft the minutes.  
An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing 
violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found 
where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirements or has 
previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Here, we find 
no evidence that the Board intentionally violated the Law or acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirements.  Furthermore, our office has not previously found the Board in violation 
of the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, we find no basis for concluding that the Board 
intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approvi
ng insufficient minutes for executive sessions held at 3:00 p.m. on May 12, 2015, and on 
May 15 and 18, 2015.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  Additionally, we order the 
Board to amend, to the best of its ability, the executive session minutes for the meetings held at 
3:00 p.m. on May 12, 2015, and on May 15 and 18, 2015, and to release those minutes to the 
public, unless any portion thereof may lawfully be withheld in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f).  We acknowledge the potential infeasibility of accurately capturing the substance of 
discussions that occurred during meetings held many years ago, and we remind the Board that 
any amendments made to the meeting minutes must accurately capture what was actually 
discussed during the meetings.  See OML 2021-107; OML 2020-101. Within 45 days of receipt 
of this letter, the Board shall certify to our office that it has complied with this order.  
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Rich Saltzberg (via e-mail: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
