===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www. mass. gov/ago
April 10,2019 
OML 2019-27
Patrice Garvin 
Town Administrator 
Town of Belmont 
455 Concord Ave 
Belmont, MA 02478
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Administrator Garvin:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 28, alleging that the 
Belmont Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 26, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated March 15. The complaint alleges that the 
Board failed to timely approve minutes of meetings held on July 16 and 30, 2018.
After reviewing the complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review filed 
with our office, and the minutes of the Board’s January 28 meeting, we resolve this complaint by 
informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
CMR 29.11(2).
The Board approved the minutes of its July 16 and July 30, 2018, meetings on January 
28, which was more than 30 days or three meetings after each respective meeting. The Board
1 Except where specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.

===PAGE 2===
acknowledges its delay in approving minutes and explains that the delay was caused by ongoing 
staff turnover and vacancies. We understand the demands on a Board with limited staff; 
however, the Board is still obligated to timely approve minutes. See OML 2018-111. If staff 
resources are not available to create minutes for the Board to approve, then Board members must 
take on this responsibility to ensure compliance with the law. Id.
The Board asserts that the staffing challenges it experienced were extraordinary and not 
likely to recur, and in any event, the Board has committed to prioritize the preparation and 
approval of meeting minutes to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law in the future.
Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in this instance, and 
recognize the complainant’s role in bringing the issue to the Board’s attention, we also commend 
the Board for acknowledging the violation and taking remedial action to ensure future 
compliance. In situations where a violation has been acknowledged and corrective action taken, 
we urge complainants to consider whether it is necessary to forward the complaint to this office 
for further review. Pursuing such complaints with this Office after a public body has 
acknowledged its violation and pledged to take steps so that it won’t be repeated takes up scarce 
state and local resources without advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved 
governmental transparency.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, and 
we order immediate and future compliance. We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon^^-------------
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick  Higgins
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2
