===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 24, 2020 
OML 2020 - 28
Kevin D. Batt, Esq.
Anderson & Kreiger LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21st Floor 
Boston, MA 02109
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Batt:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Robert Nislick on June 20, 2019, alleging 
that the Concord Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 23 and you responded to the 
complaint on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 7. The complaint alleges that the Board 
posted an insufficiently detailed notice with respect to the executive session topics for its March 
25 meeting and that the verbal statement by the chair when the Board convened in executive 
session also lacked sufficient detail.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
detailed notice with respect to the Open Meeting Law executive session topic. We find that the 
Board did not violate the law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notice and open and 
executive session minutes of the Board meeting held on March 25, as well as an audio recording 
of that meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on January 22, 2020, and January 29, 
2020.3
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.
2 The complainant provided this office with an audio recording of the open session portion of the Board’s March 25 
meeting.
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
March 25 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed two topics - Call to Order and an Executive Session 
“for the purpose of discussing Litigation (Estabrook Road and Open Meeting Law Complaint).”
The March 25 meeting was held as planned. The Committee first convened in open 
session at 6:00 P.M. and Chair Thomas McKean announced that he would “entertain a motion to 
enter executive session to discuss strategy with respect to pending litigation regarding Estabrook 
Road, Town of Concord v. Rasmussen et. ah, pending on [sic] Land Court and on the matter of 
Open Meeting Law complaint.” Board Member Michael Lawson then moved to convene in 
executive session “to discuss strategy with respect to pending litigation regarding Estabrook 
Road, Town of Concord v. Rasmussen et. al. pending in Land Court and on the matter of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint.” Chair McKean then stated “in the executive session, the Board 
will discuss with counsel strategy in the pending litigation. An open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the litigation position of the Town.” The Board then approved a unanimous 
vote by roll call to convene in executive session and Chair McKean stated that the Board would 
not reconvene in open session but would adjourn from executive session.
Because the Board has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session, we do 
not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during the executive session, the 
Board discussed and voted to execute a settlement agreement with Harvard University in the 
Estabrook Road litigation matter that was pending in Land Court. According to Town Counsel 
Kevin Batt, the Board then discussed the December 6, 2018, and January 14 Open Meeting Law 
complaints filed by the complainant and the relationship of those complaints to the pending 
Estabrook Road litigation.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.4
Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). This level of detail 
about the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice. See OML 2016- 
72.
The complaint alleges that the executive session topics listed on the March 25 notice, as 
well as the statement by the chair when the Board convened in executive session on March 25, 
lacked sufficient detail. Here, the notice stated that the Board would discuss strategy with 
respect to the Estabrook Road litigation. The verbal statement made prior to entering executive 
session identified this specific litigation matter as well, and added the additional detail of the 
case name and the court in which the litigation was pending. We find that the notice was 
sufficiently detailed where the Board identified the specific litigation matter it planned to discuss 
during the executive session. The Board need not list each and every detail about a topic in order 
to comply with the law’s requirements. See OML 2014-122.
However, we find that the notice was not sufficiently detailed with respect to the Open 
Meeting Law complaint topic. At the time of the March 25 meeting, the complainant had filed 
two Open Meeting Law complaints with the Board and the Board discussed both complaints 
during the executive session. However, neither the notice nor the verbal statement made prior to 
entering executive session included any descriptive information about the complaints. We have 
stated that the discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint should generally include the name 
of the person who filed such complaint. See OML 2013-82. We find that failure to do so here 
was a violation of the Open Meeting Law.
Nonetheless, we do not order release of the minutes for the executive session at issue. 
When a public body fails to comply with certain procedural requirements for convening in 
executive session, we generally determine that the public body may not continue to withhold the 
executive session minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law)\ OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30. Here, however, the Board’s discussion in 
executive session on March 25 of the two Open Meeting Law complaints fell within a proper 
statutory purpose and involved legal advice from Town Counsel. As such, Attorney Batt 
maintains that these communications fall within the attorney-client privilege. Even if we were to 
order release of this portion of the executive session minutes, the Board may continue to 
withhold the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any applicable 
exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privilege. See OML 2016-121; 
OML 2015-13; see also G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e); OML 2012-41 (when investigating a complaint, the 
Attorney General cannot “require the disclosure of any documentary material which would be 
privileged”).
3

===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
detailed notice with respect to the Open Meeting Law complaint executive session topic. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Robert Nislick, Esq.
Concord Select Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
