===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 13, 2019 
OML 2019-100
John F. McAuliffe 
Town Administrator 
Town of Swansea 
Town Hall 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. McAuliffe:
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins, both dated August 18, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Library Trustees (the “Board”) and the Swansea Library Director 
Search Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaints were originally filed with the Board and the Committee on July 14, and you 
responded, on behalf of both the Board and the Committee, by separate letters dated August 16. 
In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board and the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by improperly convening in executive session on May 17 to consider applicants for 
employment.2
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s and the 
Committee’s responses to those complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes of the 
Committee’s April 12 and May 17 meetings.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board and the Committee are distinct entities and they 
are considered separately for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law. The Board is a six-
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 One of the complaints also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by accepting only one final 
candidate for the library director position and not conducting public interviews of candidates. This allegation was 
resolved in Open Meeting Law determination letter OML 2018-142.
o

===PAGE 2===
member public body; thus four members constitute a quorum. The Committee is a subcommittee 
of the Board and was created for the purpose of interviewing and evaluating applicants for the 
position of library director. The Committee is a nine-member public body, of which five 
members are also members of the Board. Originally, several of the Board members were 
assigned to serve on the Committee in their capacity as members of the Friends of the Swansea 
Public Library group. However, this resulted in a quorum of Board members serving on the 
Committee.
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on May 17 at 6:30 P.M. The 
notice included two topics: “Timelines, meeting dates, goals and expectations” and an executive 
session under Purpose 8 to consider or interview applicants for employment by a preliminary 
screening committee.
The May 17 meeting was held as planned. Committee Chair Maureen Pacheco opened 
the meeting and then moved to enter into executive session under Purpose 8 “to consider 
applicants for the purposes of pre-screening for employment or appointment, and acting only in 
our capacity as a preliminary screening committee.” The Committee then approved a unanimous 
vote by roll call to convene in executive session. During the executive session, the Committee 
reviewed the applicants for library director, narrowed the pool of candidates, and discussed the 
scheduling of interviews for those candidates.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to “eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.
A public body may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which allows a 
public body to enter executive session to “consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will 
have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause 
shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 21(a)(8). The Law defines “preliminary screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants 
conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing 
to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.”
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
The preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as consideration of 
written applications or resumes, selection of some for further consideration, and interviews for 
the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists. See Gerstein v. 
Superintendent Search Screening Committee, 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Commonwealth v. 
Board of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006). 
Nothing in the statute suggests that “preliminary screening” is limited to a one-time only review 
of an applicant’s credentials. See Gerstein, 405 Mass, at 471. Once an applicant has passed a
2

===PAGE 3===
preliminary screening and been referred to the full body as a finalist, however, all further 
consideration of the applicant must occur in open session. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013- 
155.3
The complaint alleges that the May 17 executive session was improper because the 
Committee consisted of a quorum of the Board and therefore was not a preliminary screening 
committee. Both the Board and Committee concede that a quorum of the members of the Board 
were also members of the Committee. A public body may create a preliminary screening 
committee, but such committee must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of the 
parent body.4 See OML 2013-155; OML 2012-90. Here, the Board created the Committee to 
screen candidates for library director. However, five members, a quorum, of the Board were 
members of the Committee. The Board and Committee acknowledged the violation, and explain 
that several of the Board members were assigned to serve on the Committee in their capacity as 
members of the Friends of the Swansea Public Library group, which inadvertently resulted in a 
quorum of Board members serving on the Committee. Although we accept this explanation, we 
nonetheless find that because it contained a quorum of members of the Board, the Committee 
was not a preliminary screening committee under Purpose 8 and should not have met in 
executive session on May 17 to consider the applicants for library director. See OML 2017-66; 
OML 2015-122. We also find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum 
acted as a preliminary screening committee and met in executive session on May 17 to consider 
library director applicants. See OML 2012-103.
We order the Committee to publicly release its May 17 executive session minutes. The 
Committee may not redact or withhold from the public any portion of the minutes. See G.L. c.
30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance 
with section 21”); OML 2019-12; OML 2014-42.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board and the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Board’s and the Committee’s immediate and future compliance
3 Open Meeting Law determination letters are available at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 See also OML FAQ about Preliminary Screening Committees, available at the Attorney General's website, 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked- 
questions-about-preliminary-screening-committees-:
May a preliminary screening committee, which meets in executive session under purpose 8 to consider 
candidates for employment or appointment, consist of more than a quorum of the members of the parent 
body?
No, a preliminary screening committee must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of the parent body. It 
may contain additional members who are not members of the parent body. For example, a school committee with 
seven members may create a subcommittee to conduct a preliminary screening of candidates for superintendent of 
schools in executive session, and the preliminary screening committee may contain up to three members of the 
school committee, in addition to several teachers and members of the community.
3

===PAGE 4===
with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Committee to 
publicly release its May 17 executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the above 
guidance.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick Higgins
Swansea Board of Library Trustees 
Swansea Library Director Search Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
