===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 99 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
KP Law  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney McEnaney: 
 
This office received a complaint from William DiMento on February 23, 2021, alleging 
that the Swampscott Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 16, 2020.1 
After an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter 
dated January 21, 2021. The complaint alleges that, although the Board and the Swampscott 
Finance Committee (the “Committee”) posted notice for a joint open session meeting to be held 
on November 16, the joint meeting was instead held in executive session without proper notice.2  
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes of the Board’s November 16 
 
1 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise noted. 
2 The Division of Open Government enforces and interprets the Open Meeting Law only. Therefore, we decline to 
review additional allegations that do not allege violations of the Open Meeting Law, including whether any 
representative of the Town failed to inform Town Meeting members about a topic under consideration at Town 
Meeting, or whether the Committee violated the Town Charter. See OML 2012-47; OML Declination 1-25-16 
(Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Additionally, we decline to review allegations raised for the 
first time in the request for further review that were not first presented in a complaint to the Board. See OML 2020-
3; OML Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
executive session, the notice and minutes of the Board and Committee’s November 16 joint 
meeting, and additional communications and information provided by the Complainant.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Two or more public bodies may hold a joint meeting. However, each public body 
participating in the meeting must provide notice pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 20. The public bodies 
must provide independent notice of their meetings, or if posting a single notice, must clearly 
state that each public body will be meeting. If two or more public bodies plan to hold a joint 
meeting, for purposes of clarity, all bodies involved should note in their meeting notices that this 
will be a joint meeting with the other bodies. See OML 2012-6; OML 2011-16.3 Any notice of a 
joint meeting must meet all the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and include the public 
bodies’ names, the date, time, and location of the meeting, and all the topics that the public 
bodies anticipate discussing. See OML 2013-36.  
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law excludes from 
the definition of “meeting” the “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another 
public body that has complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as 
the visiting members communicate only by open participation in the meeting on those matters 
under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate.” Id. 
 
On November 12, the Board posted notice for an executive session to be held on 
November 16, at 5:30 p.m.4 The purpose for the executive session was to meet pursuant to 
General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”), “to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position 
of the Town and the chair so declares– Police Union; Fire Fighters Union.” The Board’s notice 
for the executive session did not state that it would be a joint meeting, and the Committee did not 
post its own notice for the executive session. On November 12, the Board and Committee posted 
notice for a joint meeting to be held on November 16, at 6:00 p.m. The notice for the joint 
meeting included the sole topic, “Discussion of warrant and possible votes.”  
 
On November 16, at 5:30 p.m., the Board convened in executive session to discuss 
strategy with respect to contract negotiations with the Police and Fire Fighters unions. The 
Complainant and the Board disagree regarding how or when the Committee was invited to attend 
the Board’s executive session, but there is no dispute that the full Committee attended the 
executive session. After the executive session adjourned, the Board and Committee convened a 
 
3 Open Meeting Law complaint determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body first convene in open session to 
conduct the procedural steps for convening an executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(l)-(4). Furthermore, when the 
only business to be discussed during an open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, 
the meeting notice should list “open session” as this is the only means by which members of the public are informed 
that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2015-172; OML 
2013-9; OML 2012-68. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
joint open session at 6:30 p.m.5 During the open session, the Board and Committee discussed 
articles for the Special Town Meeting scheduled to take place later that evening. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board and Committee held a joint executive session on 
November 16 without having first posted notice for such an executive session. The complaint 
further alleges that this was done so that the Board could “coerce the Finance Committee, out of 
public view, to remain silent at the Special Town Meeting regarding the financial impact of the 
potential passage of Article Seven (7) [, pertaining to] the elimination of the Police and Fire 
Departments from Civil Service provisions.”  
 
The Board responds that 1) notice was properly posted for both its November 16 
executive session and the November 16 joint open session; 2) the Chair of the Board invited all  
interested Committee members to observe the executive session so that they could be updated on 
the status of the Town’s negotiations with the unions; 3) the Committee does not have a “direct 
role” with respect to collective bargaining negotiations and therefore the subjects discussed 
during the executive session were not within the Committee’s jurisdiction and it could not have 
deliberated, for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, during the executive session; and 4) our 
office should decline to review any allegations with respect to the Committee because the 
complaint was filed with the Board only and not with the Committee.  
 
With respect to the Board, we find that the Board properly posted notice for both the 
November 16 executive session and the November 16 joint open session, and therefore did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session or open session on November 
16. Likewise, a public body may invite an individual or other public body to attend or participate 
in an executive session if the public body believes that doing so would assist the public body in 
its work and would not undermine the stated purpose for meeting in executive session. See OML 
2020-133, n.2. Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Law by inviting the 
Committee to attend its November 16 executive session. 
 
With respect to the Committee, although we disagree with the Board’s characterization of 
the Committee’s attendance at the November 16 executive session as mere “observation,” we do 
agree that where the complaint was not filed with the Committee, we will not review allegations 
against the Committee. See OML Declination 5-7-20 (Salem School Committee); OML 
Declination 8-27-12 (Waltham City Council) (declining to review complaints in part because the 
public bodies complained of were not provided with an opportunity to properly review and 
respond to the complaints). Therefore, we make no formal determination regarding whether the 
subject matters discussed during the Board’s November 16 executive session fell within the 
Committee’s jurisdiction, nor whether the Committee deliberated during the executive session. 
Although we do not make a formal finding here, we remind the Committee that the exception to 
the definition of “meeting” for the attendance by a quorum of a public body at the meeting of 
another public body only applies if the visiting public body members do not deliberate. See OML 
 
5 We note that the notice for the November 16 joint open session listed a start time of 6:00 p.m., with no indication 
that it may start later if the executive session held immediately prior to the open session ran late. The notice for the 
joint meeting should have included a caveat that the meeting might start after 6:00 p.m. if the executive session ran 
late. See OML 2020-103; OML 2013-161 (“Members of the public should not have to guess when a meeting will 
start.”). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
2019-103. We further remind the Committee that deliberation is broadly defined as any “oral or 
written communication through any medium . . . between or among a quorum of a public body 
on any public business within its jurisdiction”; there is no exception for discussions that do not 
result in a decision or vote. G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes of the Board’s 
November 16 executive session do not appear to comply with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement that a public body create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions. The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). With regard to the 
summary of the discussions, we look for substantial compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2020-155; OML 2013-64; OML 2017-104. Although a 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or 
opinion presented, minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. 
A statement that a discussion on a particular topic took place, without summarizing the 
discussion, is insufficient. See OML 2020-149; OML 2020-55; OML 2012-29. We recommend 
that the Board revise the minutes of its November 16 executive session to comply with these 
requirements.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. Furthermore, we decline to review whether the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by deliberating during the Board’s November 16 executive session without first 
posting notice. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office 
or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
cc: Peter Spellios, Chair, Swampscott Select Board (via e-mail: 
 
 Timothy Dorsey, Chair, Swampscott Finance Committee c/o Sean Fitzgerald, Town 
Administrator (via e-mail:   
 William DiMento (via e-mail:   
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
