===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 25, 2012 
OML 2012 - 54 
Ms. Rene C. Wood 
Chairman, Town of Sheffield Board of Selectmen 
21 Depot Square 
P.O. Box 325 
Sheffield, MA 01257 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Wood, 
This office received a complaint from David West, dated September 9, 2011, alleging 
that the Sheffield Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that on July 25, 2011, the Board met in 
executive session to discuss Thomas Carmody's reappointment as the Building Commissioner 
and Zoning Enforcement Officer, even though Mr. Carmody requested that the Board meet in 
open session. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 5, 2011. The Board 
responded to that complaint on August 15, 2011. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we considered this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the Board did, in 
fact, meet in open session on July 25, 2011. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
August 5, 2011 complaint; the Board's August 15, 2011 response, the September 9, 2011 
complaint filed with our office; and the minutes of the Board's July 25, 2011 meeting. 
Additionally, we reviewed a letter from Mr. West, dated December 5, 2011. 
FACTS  
On July 25, 2011, the Board met to consider reappointing Building Commissioner and 
Zoning Enforcement Officer Thomas Carmody. At the request of Mr. Carmody, the Board met 
in an open session. Prior to the discussion concerning Mr. Carmody's reappointment, Chairman 
0 
===PAGE 2===
Rene Wood' announced that the Board would not allow public comments during the discussion. 
The complainant contends that the Board effectively held an executive session, rather than an 
open session, because the Chair did not allow Mr. Carmody's counsel or any member of the 
public to speak during the open session. The Chair did allow Mr. Carmody to speak on his own 
behalf. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation 
during an open meeting. See OML 2012 — 23. 2  The Law states that "[n]o person shall address a 
meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). Members of the public have the right to attend any 
open session meeting of a public body, however they do not have the right to address the body 
without the permission of the chair. Id.; OML 2012 — 23. In contrast, an executive session 
meeting is entirely closed to the public, offering no ability to witness the proceedings. G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A public body may enter executive session under Purpose 1, to "discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). If a 
public body enters executive session for this purpose, the public body must provide the 
individual to be discussed with 48 hours' written notice of the meeting; the opportunity to be 
present during the executive session; the opportunity to speak on his or her own behalf; the 
opportunity to have counsel present to advise but not participate; and the opportunity to make an 
independent audio recording or transcript of the meeting. Icl. 
In this case, notice of the July 25, 2011 open meeting was properly posted, and the public 
was permitted to attend and observe the discussion that occurred. Prior to the discussion 
concerning Mr. Carmody's reappointment, Chair Wood announced that there would be no public 
comments allowed during the discussion. This decision was within her discretion under G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(f). That the Chair did not allow Mr. Carmody's counsel to speak during the open 
meeting did not make the meeting an executive session, as the public was still able to attend and 
observe the Board's deliberations. The Board never entered executive session under Purpose 1, 
and thus the Purpose 1 executive session rights did not apply to Mr. Carmody. We therefore find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during its July 25, 2011 meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law during its July 25, 2011 meeting. We now consider this matter closed. If you have any 
questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
1  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openrneethig.  
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney Genera
Division of Open Government
cc: David West