===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 11, 2019
OML 2019-114
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Randazzo:
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on February 11, 2019, alleging that 
the Sandwich Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 10, 2019, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated January 31, 2019. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that the Board failed to post a sufficiently detailed notice with regard to an 
executive session item and the Board has failed to regularly review executive session minutes for 
public release.
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a 
sufficiently detailed notice with regard to one executive session topic and by failing to 
periodically review executive session minutes. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint; the Board’s response; the notice for the Board’s December 20, 2018, 
meeting; executive session minutes from the Board’s October 5, 2017 and December 20, 2018, 
meetings; and meeting notices and minutes posted on the Board’s website. We also 
communicated by email with counsel for the Board.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On December 18, 2018, the Board posted a meeting notice 
for its December 20, 2018, meeting. Item number two on the notice read, in relevant part, 
“Executive Session - M.G.L. C.30A, §21(a) - The Chair declares that having an open session
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.
o
1

===PAGE 2===
may have a detrimental effect upon the Town’s bargaining, litigating, or negotiating position, as 
applicable.. . . Purpose #3: Collective Bargaining Strategy.” On December 20, 2018, the Board 
held a meeting and entered into executive session to discuss two topics, one of which was 
strategy for collective bargaining with all seven town-side unions. All town-side union contracts 
were scheduled to expire at the end of June 2019. A review of the executive session minutes 
reveals that the Town Manager advised the Board on negotiating strategy with “all seven unions 
(Clerical, DPW, Police [patrol and superior officers], Fire, Library, and Dispatch.” The Town 
Manager also shared information and thoughts regarding current trends in salary increases for 
municipal employees, certain proposals for the upcoming negotiations, advice and opinions of 
town counsel, and the possible impact of a recent settlement with the school union on 
negotiations. In response to this complaint, on January 24, 2019, the Board approved the 
December 20, 2018, executive session minutes and voted to release the portion discussing 
collective bargaining strategy.
The Board held a number of executive sessions in 2017 and 2018. The Board reviewed 
executive session minutes to determine if continued withholding was warranted four times in 
2017, with the last such review occurring on October 5, 2017. The Board did not review 
executive session minutes for potential release in 2018. In response to this complaint, the Board 
reviewed all 2018 executive session minutes on February 7, 2019.
DISCUSSION
_L The Notice for the Board’s December 20, 2018, Meeting Was Insufficient
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. When notice is posted for an executive session topic, the notice 
must state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See OML 2019 - 
922; District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”).
Here, the chair reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance that the Board would discuss 
all seven town-side unions. The notice therefore should have included additional detail either 
listing the specific unions to be discussed or at least stating that all town-side unions would be 
discussed. See OML 2012-68. In its response, the Board argues that requiring additional 
language such as “all Town-side unions” on the notice would not give “the public any more
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
information about the topic to be discussed ..and instead “elevates form over substance in a 
non-meaningful way.” We disagree. Including all information that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called is imperative because this 
is the only information about the executive session available to the public. Listing the specific 
unions to be discussed, or stating that all unions would be discussed, would have notified 
members of the public, who may have an interest in a particular union, that the union of interest 
would be part of the executive session discussion. The Board did not argue that including the 
specific unions to be discussed in the notice would have compromised the purpose for the 
executive session, and so this information should have been provided to the public.
2. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Periodically Review Executive
Session Minutes for Public Release
Next, the complaint alleges that the Board “has also failed to review Executive Session 
minutes for public release on a regular basis as required by the OML.” As an initial matter, the 
Board argues that the Complainant’s allegation that the Board has failed to periodically review 
executive session minutes should not be reviewed by our office because it is a general allegation 
and the Complainant had not requested any particular executive session minutes. Although we do 
not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations, see 4-22-15 
Declination, neither do we require a complainant to request executive session minutes before 
bringing a complaint alleging that a public body has failed to periodically review executive 
session minutes. A public body has an independent obligation, even in the absence of a request 
for meeting minutes, to review its executive session minutes at reasonable intervals to determine 
whether continued non-disclosure is warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).
In correspondence with counsel for the Board, the Board cites two declinations to support 
its argument that the allegation regarding the Board’s periodic review of executive session 
minutes “does not meet the requirements for a complaint pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, §23, as it does 
not set forth specific circumstances that constitute an alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law 
and instead, is a generalized allegation.” We find the two Declinations cited distinguishable. In 
the first Declination, dated 4-22-15, the complainant alleged that the public body “failed to 
‘properly file’ minutes from September 2013 through January 2015; that it fails to hold meetings 
at a consistent time; and that it occasionally holds meetings in private buildings.” On the whole, 
these allegations effectively requested our office to conduct a broad audit of the public body to 
discover any facts related to the allegations. In addition, the allegations made, if true, did not 
constitute Open Meeting Law violations. In the second Declination, dated 2-27-15, the 
complainant alleged that the public body “(1) never publicly releases Executive Sessions; (2) 
conducts private meetings involving two or more members of the Board with the Town Manager 
and other town personnel that would constitute official town business; and (3) regular[ly] 
communicate [s] and conduces] business by email and other means outside the formal Board . . . 
meeting” (internal quotations omitted). Again, these allegations would have required a sweeping 
audit of the public body.
Unlike the two Declinations cited, the current complaint does not require a broad audit of 
the Board. Through a cursory review of meeting notices and minutes that the Board has posted 
online and communication with the Board’s counsel, we were able to determine that the Board
3

===PAGE 4===
did not review executive session minutes at any point in 2018 to determine whether continued 
non-disclosure was warranted. The Board does not dispute this point. Therefore, this allegation 
presents a straightforward question of whether the Board’s failure to review executive session 
minutes for that period of time constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law.
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a quarterly review 
or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 
2013-180.
The Board states that it does undertake periodic reviews of executive session minutes for 
public release. We find that the Board reviewed executive session minutes several times in 2017, 
but in 2018, it did not review its executive session minutes a single time to determine if 
continued non-disclosure was warranted. The Board argues that because it did not hold an 
executive session until March of 2018, it delayed only eleven months in reviewing executive 
session minutes for potential release. We disagree. A cursory review of the Board’s 2017 and 
2018 meeting notices and minutes posted online shows that the Board held executive sessions 
four times at the end of 2017 (October 5, November 16, November 30, and December 14) for 
which no review appears to have been done.3 In response to the complaint, the Board held an 
executive session on February 7, 2019, to review all 2018 executive session minutes, but by then 
one year and four months had passed since the Board had last reviewed its executive session 
minutes, despite having held many executive sessions in the interim. We find that a gap of 
sixteen months between reviews of executive session minutes violates the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement to review executive session minutes for potential release at reasonable intervals. See 
2018-161 (finding a delay of almost two years violated the Open Meeting Law); OML 2015-166 
(finding a review every six months to be appropriate). We commend the Board for taking 
corrective action in response to this complaint but advise it to establish a practice of periodically 
reviewing unreleased executive session minutes at more frequent intervals to determine if 
continued non-disclosure is warranted.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its December 20, 2018, meeting and by failing to
3 To the extent that there were any prior executive session minutes that the Board had previously 
reviewed but determined that continued non-disclosure was necessary because the valid purpose 
for the executive session remained ongoing, such minutes also must be reviewed again at regular 
intervals.
4

===PAGE 5===
periodically review executive session minutes. This office has previously determined that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law in an almost identical way when the Board failed to 
identify on its meeting notices the specific personnel with whom it would be negotiating. OML 
2015-127. Because the Board received clear written warning from this office that it must include 
on its meeting notices all information that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called, including specifically the identity of the parties about 
whom it will be conducting strategy discussions, we find the Board’s current violation 
intentional. See 940 CMR 29.02; see also 940 CMR 29.04(3) (public body members must certify 
that they have received copies of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to that public 
body during the past five years in which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law). We order immediate and future compliance with the Law. Because the Board has 
already released the December 20, 2018, executive session minutes in response to this complaint, 
we order no further remedial action. However, we caution the Board that future intentional 
violations of the Law could result in the imposition of a civil penalty.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerelyr
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Beaty
Sandwich Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5
