===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 2,2019
OML 2019-24
Robert O’Regan
Chair, Stoughton Board of Selectmen 
10 Pearl Street 
Stoughton, MA 02072
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. O’Regan:
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 24, alleging that the 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 2, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated July 17. In his complaint, 
Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board failed to list the candidates for appointment to town boards 
and committees on its June 26 meeting notice. Mr. Higgins also alleges that the Board failed 
to approve certain meeting minutes in a timely manner.2
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board’s June 26 and July 10 meetings.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Between its May 1 and July 2 meetings, the Board held 
meetings on May 5; May 8; May 9; May 14; May 15; May 21; May 23; May 31; June 5; June 
11; June 18; June 20; and June 26. On July 10, the Board approved all of the minutes from 
the meetings held in May, as well as the June 5 meeting.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 We limit our review to those meetings minutes which are ripe for review, meaning that, at the time the 
complaint was filed with the Board, the Board appeared to have passed the timeframe by which minutes must be 
timely approved in accordance with the Open Meeting Law regulations, 940 CMR 29.11(2). Accordingly, we 
decline to review any of the minutes for meetings held on and after June 5 as the Board still had time to timely 
approve those minutes and, indeed, did so in most instances.
o

===PAGE 2===
During its June 26 meeting, the Board conducted interviews and made appointments to 
various Town boards and committees. The meeting notice listed the topic as follows:
7:15 p.m. Interviews and Appointments to Boards and Committees:
Board of Assessors, Board of Registrars, Brockton Area 
Transit Authority, Cable TV Advisory Committee,
Commission on Disabilities, Community Preservation 
Committee, Council on Aging, Cultural Council, Energy &
Sustainability, Glen Echo Committee, Library Trustees,
Norfolk County Advisory Board, Old Colony Elderly 
Services, Open Space Committee, Planning Board, Self 
Help, Inc., Zoning Board of Appeals
DISCUSSION
I. The Board Failed to Timely Approve its Meeting Minutes.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.3
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve its meeting minutes, 
pointing to the fact that the Board did not approve any minutes during its meetings held since 
May 1, on May 5; May 8; May 9; May 14; May 15; May 21; May 23; and May 31. The 
Board was required to approve those meeting minutes within 30 days of each meeting as that 
was the later of the two time periods. See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-111. Because the 
Board reviewed and approved them more than 30 days after each meeting, on July 10, it did 
not approve them in a timely manner. Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
II. The Board Should Have Listed the Individuals Considered for Appointments on its
June 26 Meeting Notice.
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
“a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. 
The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues 
to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.
The complaint also alleges that the Board failed to specify the names of the 
individuals to be considered for appointment to Town boards and committees on its June 26 
meeting notice. The Board responds that the application deadline was June 21 and the 
meeting notice was posted the morning of June 22, before the Board had received the full list 
of applicants for consideration. The Board does not state, however, that it did not eventually 
learn the full list of applicants at least 48 hours before the meeting. We therefore conclude 
that the meeting notice should have included the names of the individuals being interviewed 
and/or considered by the Board; the Board could have delayed posting its meeting notice by a 
few hours until it had received the complete information, or posted an amended notice once it 
received the information.4 Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to approve its May 5; May 8; May 9; May 14; May 15; May 21; May 23; and May 
31 meeting minutes in a timely manner and by failing to include sufficient detail on its June 
26 meeting notice. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or
4 In its response, the Board points out that it appears that listing the names of individuals being considered for 
appointment does not appear to be “prevailing practice” for boards of selectmen in other towns. We had 
previously advised public bodies that a meeting notice should typically identify each annual appointment, 
license, or application that will be considered at the meeting, but that when doing so would result in the notice 
consisting of many pages that cannot fit on a bulletin board, a public body may instead reference on the notice 
that such additional information can be found at the municipal clerk’s office or at another easily accessible 
location. However, the Suffolk Superior Court recently found this approach to be arbitrary, because the 
determination of whether it is practical to post a certain number of pages on a bulletin board is subjective. See 
Swansea v. Maura Healey. Civil Action No. 2017-3269-E (Suffolk Sup. Ct. October 29, 2018). We therefore 
have amended our guidance to conform with prior determinations that had required the specific information to be 
included on or with the notice.4 See OML 2016-167; OML 2011-11. It will no longer be acceptable for a 
meeting notice to refer members of the public to another location to find the required information; it must be 
included on or with the notice itself.
3

===PAGE 4===
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick Higgins
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
