===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
January 31, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 10 
 
 
Alexander Castro, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Castro: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on August 20, 2021, alleging that 
the Ashland Mindess School Building Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about July 29, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
August 18.  The complaint alleges that the Committee created a subcommittee that did not 
comply with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on July 22, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2  In addition, we spoke 
with Paul Kendall, Chair of the Committee, by telephone on January 21, 2022.  We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on July 22 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UPsOFDIY6bQ. 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A “subcommittee” is defined as a multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.  Id. 
 
The Planning Board (the “Board”) held a meeting on July 22 during which the Board 
heard from Committee Chair Paul Kendall, as well as project managers and architects, who 
discussed the construction of a new elementary school to replace the Mindess School building at 
90 Concord Street.  At the conclusion of the presentation, Board members asked questions, 
including whether the construction plans took into consideration school security and public 
safety issues.  Mr. Kendall responded stating “we’ve had three or four meetings” with the 
Town’s Police and Fire Chiefs, as well as security consultants, to review security and safety 
issues.  The complaint alleges that this statement by Mr. Kendall indicates that the Committee 
created a subcommittee, which has failed to post notice and create meeting minutes.  The 
Committee contends that it did not create a subcommittee.  Rather, the meetings that Mr. Kendall 
referred to were organized and held by the project managers, architects and designers of the 
proposed new elementary school.   
 
In reviewing whether a public body created a subcommittee, our analysis hinges on the 
public body’s action and whether it intended to create a multiple-member body.  See OML 2017-
111. 3  A gathering of individuals, on their own initiative, does not create a subcommittee.  See 
OML 2016-106.  We find that these individual officials are not a subcommittee subject to 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-3; 2012-28.  Therefore, any meetings that they held 
with the Police Chief, Fire Chief, or school staff to discuss public safety issues for a new school 
would not be considered a meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (a 
“meeting” of a public body is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction”); see also OML 2015-31.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not create a subcommittee 
that was required to comply with the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cc: Stephen Morgan – By email only:  
Ashland Mindess School Building Committee – By email only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
