===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 3, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 91 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Melissa Noe  
Town Administrator  
Town of Monterey 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Noe: 
This office received two complaints from John Weingold on November 30, 2021, 
alleging that the Monterey Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 17, and the 
Board responded by letter dated November 3.1 Mr. Weingold is a member of the Board. In his 
complaints, Member Weingold alleges that the Board discussed an anticipated topic at an 
October 6 meeting, despite the topic not being listed on the meeting notice.2 In addition, Member 
Weingold alleges that the Board deliberated via email on October 14.  
This office also received a complaint from Donald Coburn on December 23, 2021, 
alleging that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on November 19, and the Board provided copies of meeting minutes in lieu of a 
response on December 20.3 In his complaint, Mr. Coburn alleges that Board Member Weingold 
individually deliberated via email on November 17. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 Member Weingold also alleges that the Board violated its own rules regarding adding items to agendas within 48 
hours of a meeting and that the meeting in question was biased by the presence of many supporters of the Town 
Administrator. We note that, even if true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). 
3 The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to meet to review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint 
within 14 business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the Board took the position that Member Weingold, as the only 
member implicated in the complaint, should respond individually to the complaint. As far as we are aware, Member 
Weingold did not respond to Mr. Coburn regarding the complaint.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Finally, this office also received a complaint from Jon Sylbert on March 4, 2022, alleging 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on January 31, 2022, and the Board responded by letter dated March 2, 2022, pursuant to 
an extension granted by our office. In his complaint, Mr. Sylbert alleges that the Board failed to 
timely approve several sets of executive session minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Board failed to timely approve several sets of 
executive session minutes. We find no other violation regarding the Board as a whole. However, 
we find that Member Weingold individually violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating 
outside of a posted meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, 
the Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ requests for further review. We 
also reviewed relevant emails and meeting notices and communicated by email with the Town 
Administrator, Member Weingold and Mr. Coburn in March of 2022.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board permissibly discussed an unanticipated topic at its October 6 meeting. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A public body may amend a meeting notice within 48 hours of 
a meeting to add a previously unanticipated topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2020-29.4  
Likewise, a public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even without having 
included it on a meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public 
bodies, as a matter of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest 
to the public in order to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting if the 
topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.  
 Here, Member Weingold alleges that the Board’s discussion of the reinstatement of the 
Town Administrator at an October 6 meeting was improper, as the topic was not included on the 
notice for the meeting. A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even if 
that topic was not included on the notice for the meeting. See OML 2020-172. On October 4 at 
4:44 p.m., the Board posted a notice for a meeting to be held on October 6 at 6:00 p.m. Although 
several topics listed on the notice related to the Town Administrator, the notice did not specify 
that the Board would discuss the reinstatement of the Town Administrator. During an executive 
session held beginning at 6:00 p.m. on October 4, and therefore less than 48 hours before the 
October 6 meeting, the Board placed the Town Administrator on administrative leave. We 
therefore find that the Board did not anticipate a discussion of reinstating the Town 
Administrator 48 hours in advance of the October 6 meeting as the Town Administrator had not 
been placed on leave by that time. We therefore find that the Board’s discussion during the 
October 6 meeting of reinstating the Town Administrator did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2. We find that Member Weingold individually violated the Open Meeting Law through 
email deliberation. We find no violation with respect to the other two Board members.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. However, there is a narrow exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution 
of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18, 
see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172. 
 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body. Id. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 
2015-33; OML 2012-73. A public body may not engage in serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a subject 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
  Member Weingold alleges that the Board impermissibly deliberated outside of a meeting 
via email on October 14. We have reviewed the email chain in question. In three emails sent on 
October 14, on which all Board members were copied, Board Member Justin Makuc asked 
Board Chair Steve Weisz if he planned to schedule a Board meeting to discuss recent sexual 
harassment allegations received by the Board. Chair Weisz replied that he planned to schedule a 
meeting in the next few days, at which time the Board would be updated. Finally, Member 
Makuc thanked Chair Weisz for “dealing with this appropriately.” We find that these emails 
were merely administrative in nature regarding the scheduling of a meeting, fitting squarely 
within the Open Meeting Law’s exception to the definition of deliberation. We therefore find no 
violation of the Law with respect to these emails. 
 On the other hand, we find that Member Weingold violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email on November 17. In an email sent to the two 
other members of the Board, Member Weingold announced that he planned not to attend any 
future meetings of the Board as long as Member Weisz served as chair, critiquing Chair Weisz’s 
actions on several different topics, including “conducting [Board] business involving the [Town 
Administrator]’s HR issues by himself, behind the scenes without any [Board] authority, his 
dominating discussions, allowing improper posts of [Board] meetings & agenda items to the 
public, violated the OML twice in the past and likely numerous times currently, and abuse of the 
position as the Chairman of the [Board] by continued bullying and badgering of [the third Board 
member] on issues.” Member Weingold also expressed his disapproval of the Town 
Administrator and the Board’s practice of allowing “open mics…while the [Board] is 
deliberating.” We find that Member Weingold’s November 17 email, which reached a quorum of 
the Board, constituted improper deliberation because the email discussed the Board’s overall 
operation, including meeting procedures and the leadership of the Board, which are matters of 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
public business that should be reserved for an open meeting. See OML 2018-9; OML 2011-38. 
We therefore find that Member Weingold individually violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 Finally, we must determine whether Member Weingold’s violation was, as Mr. Coburn 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. The Board was recently and specifically warned by our office that 
Board members should cease deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email. See OML 2021-
41; OML 2021-133. However, Member Weingold asserts that he believed that the Board’s 
counsel had advised him that the Board’s “operational business [was] not public business” which 
must be discussed at a properly posted meeting. We are persuaded that Member Weingold 
sincerely, if incorrectly, believed that the substance of his email was not a matter of public 
business within the Board’s jurisdiction. Therefore, we decline to find that his individual 
violation was intentional. 
3. The Board failed to timely approve several sets of executive session minutes. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2021-91. 
 The Board concedes that it did not approve minutes for executive sessions that took place 
on July 21, October 4, November 4, and November 17, in a timely manner. Accordingly, we find 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In response to the complaint, the Board has now 
approved all four sets of the executive session minutes.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board failed to timely approve several sets 
of executive session minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We also find that Member Weingold individually violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a posted meeting via email on one occasion. We order the Board to 
publicly release Member Weingold’s November 17 email within 30 days of the Board’s receipt 
of this letter. The Board may publicly release the email by reading its contents during a meeting 
and listing the email in the meeting minutes, or by referencing the email during a meeting and 
posting the email along with the minutes on the Board’s website.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 Finally, as the Board has now approved the four sets of executive session minutes 
addressed in this determination, we order no further relief. 
 We consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: John Weingold (via email:  
 Donald Coburn (via email:  
 Jon Sylbert (via email:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
