===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 10, 2013 
OML 2013-136 
Arthur P. Kreiger, Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger, LLP 
One Canal Park, Suite 200 
Cambridge, MA 02141 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Kreiger; 
This office received two complaints from Philip Tortorella, dated December 18, 
2012, alleging that the Duxbury Town Counsel Search Committee (the "Committee") and 
William Zachmann, Clerk of the Committee, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about November 
27, 2012 and December 7, 2012, respectively, and you responded on behalf of the 
Committee to both complaints by letter dated December 17, 2012. In his November 27, 
2012 complaint, Mr. Tortorella alleges that during the October 30, 2012 and November 1, 
2012 Committee meetings, Mr. Zachmann recorded the meetings without first notifying 
the Chair or the other participants at the meetings.1 In his December 7, 2012 complaint, 
Mr. Tortorella alleges that Mr. Zachmann engaged in deliberation by email outside of a 
# 2 properly posted meeting. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Mr. Tortorella additionally alleges violations of G.L. c. 272, § 99, Interception and Willful Disclosure of 
Oral Communications. This determination concerns only the enforcement of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25; therefore we decline to review this allegation. 
2 The email communications at issue are dated June 22, 2012, November 2, 2012 and December 5, 2012. 
The complaint also makes a general reference to emails sent following the November 2, 2012 email. An 
initial complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 days of any alleged violation of the Open 
Meeting Law or, if the violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
The complainant was copied on each of the emails in question, thus he knew about them at the time they 
were sent. We therefore decline to review the allegations regarding the June 22, 2012 and November 2, 2012 
emails, as they are untimely. Additionally, though the complaint does not identify specific post-November 2, 
2012 emails that allegedly violated the Law, because our office was copied on three emails sent by Mr. 
Zachmann to the Committee, dated November 11, 2012; November 14, 2012; and November 19, 2012, we 
will review those specific messages. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
We reviewed the November 27, 2012 and December 7, 2012 complaints and your 
December 17, 2012 response on behalf of the Committee. We also reviewed the 
December 18, 2012 complaint filed with our office, requesting further review of both 
complaints, which included exhibits documenting various email communications, certain 
Committee agendas and minutes, and Duxbury Board of Selectmen meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we find that that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to announce that its meetings were being recorded because the 
person recording those meetings failed to notify the Chair before each meeting. However, 
we find that Mr. Zachmann individually violated the Open Meeting Law by sending 
electronic communications discussing public business within the Committee's jurisdiction 
to a quorum of the Committee. We do not find that Mr. Zachmann intentionally violated 
the law, but rather demonstrated a misunderstanding of the Law's requirements. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
During the June 14, 2012 meeting of the Duxbury Board of Selectmen (the "Board"), the 
Board voted to appoint the following seven individuals to the Committee: William 
Zachmann, Martin Desmery, Kathy Muncey, Frank Mangione, Philip Tortorella, Susan 
Curtis, and Andre Martecchini. The Committee's charge was to interview law firms for 
the position of Town Counsel and recommend two or three candidates to the Board for its 
consideration.4 
On June 22, 2012, Mr. Zachmann sent an email to the Committee with an attached 
memorandum "offering some preliminary observations.. .for the coming deliberations and 
actions.. .put forth simply as some initial thoughts to help 'get the ball rolling.'" 
Committee member Andre Martecchini responded by email on June 23, 2012 to the entire 
Committee, stating, "[i]n the spirit of the Open Meeting Law, we should not be distributing 
information and having any committee-related discussions outside of posted meetings. We 
can distribute information, but please no replies or further discussion." Mr. Zachmann 
then responded in a lengthy email to the entire Committee on June 24, 2012, citing 
previous determinations issued by our office, noting, "[t]he OML does not provide any 
guidance, one might say, as to how to properly notice.. .deliberations via email, yet 
Determinations of the OAG reasonably note that the intent of the law is really not to forbid 
or inhibit deliberation but only to ensure its transparency to the public via appropriate 
notification and disclosure."5 
J For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
4 According to an editorial note in the June 14, 2012 meeting minutes, the Committee's term would naturally 
expire on June 30, 2013. However, during the November 19, 2012 meeting, Chair of the Board Theodore 
Flynn disbanded the Committee. 
5 We note that following this email exchange, Mr. Zachmann contacted our office for further guidance on the 
definition of "deliberation" under the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, during its July 17, 2012 meeting, the 
Committee discussed public records and the Open Meeting Law, noting that emails "should be limited to 
distributing information and materials. All deliberations should be conducted at the open meeting." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
During the Committee's first meeting, held on June 27, 2012, Mr. Zachmann 
informed then-Chairman Martin Desmery that as the Clerk of the Committee, he intended 
to record every Committee meeting for purposes of assisting him in drafting the minutes. 
During the October 30, 2012 and November 1, 2012 meetings, Mr. Zachmann placed a 
small audio recording device on the table in front of him6 and recorded the Committee 
meetings, but did not notify Chairman Desmery about his intention to record on those 
specific dates. As a result, Chairman Desmery failed to announce at the commencement of 
these meetings that they were being recorded. During these two meetings, the Committee 
conducted interviews of five law firms in open session. 
Following the November 1, 2012 meeting. Chairman Desmery, Mr. Zachmann and 
Mr. Tortorella engaged in a debate via email about how to resolve the recording issue. On 
November 12, 2012, Chairman Desmery individually emailed the five law firms 
interviewed and notified them that the meetings they had attended were recorded. 
Chairman Desmery then disclosed the recording issue, after listing it as a topic on the 
meeting notice, during the Committee's November 13, 2012 meeting by reading a copy of 
the November 12, 2012 email he had sent to the interviewees. 
Leading up to, and following, the November 13, 2012 Committee meeting, Mr. 
Zachmann sent several emails to the Committee regarding the recording issue. Beginning 
on November 11, 2012, Mr. Zachmann sent an email to the Committee explaining the 
background "relevant to the 'Discussion of Recording of Meetings' agenda item" posted 
on the notice for the November 13, 2012 meeting. According to Mr. Zachmann, it did not 
seem fair that "other members of the committee should be expected to discuss a matter that 
has, unfortunately, become a potentially controversial issue, without prior information 
about what has transpired since the adjournment of the last meeting" and therefore attached 
a PDF file of the email correspondence between himself and Chairman Desmery 
concerning the matter. Mr. Zachmann noted, "it is not proper for any of us to discuss or 
deliberate this matter with fellow committee members prior to our meeting." 
Then on November 14, 2012, Mr. Zachmann sent a lengthy email to the entire 
Committee, and copied other Town officials, outlining his response to the Committee's 
discussion about the improper recordings during its meeting the night before. Mr. 
Zachmann states, "|s|ince Mr. Desmery...made the, unfortunate in my view, decision to 
end our final meeting.. .denying me (over my objections) the opportunity to respond, I 
shall do so by way of this email." Mr. Zachmann described his conversations with 
Chairman Desmery about destroying the recordings and offered his opinion on the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Again, on November 19, 2012 and December 5, 
2012, Mr. Zachmann sent lengthy emails to the Committee, and copied other Town 
6 The Committee stated in its response that while the device was placed in plain sight, nothing called 
attention to it or otherwise indicated that it was recording. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
officials and members of the media, to reiterate his opinion on the recording issue and the 
Open Meeting Law.7 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law therefore 
requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). "Meeting" is defined, in part, as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. "Deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.'" Id (emphasis added) 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that "|a]fter notifying the chair of the 
public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a 
meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to the 
reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of 
equipment so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the 
meeting the chair shall inform other attendees of any such recordings." G.L. c. 3OA, § 
20(e). The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any 
recording made by members of the public body itself, including those made for public 
broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting 
minutes. See OML 2012-24 (a chair's refusal to announce "at each meeting that the 
meeting was being recorded and broadcast on local access cable television.. .violated the 
Open Meeting Law.") This requirement is important because it informs members of the 
public who may not be familiar with the usual procedure, or who may not usually attend 
meetings. Where a public body regularly records or broadcasts its own meetings, it may 
satisfy the requirement of notification by prominently displaying a sign at the meeting 
location that informs attendees about the recording. This relieves the chair from making a 
verbal announcement about the body's own recordings at the beginning of each meeting. 
Mr. Zachmann recorded the October 30, 2012 and November 1, 2012 meetings to 
assist him in drafting the meeting minutes. After the initial disclosure on June 27, 2012, 
Mr. Zachmann, believing his obligation to notify the chair had been satisfied, did not 
advise Chairman Desmery about his intention to record each subsequent meeting. 
Therefore, Chairman Desmery forgot about Mr. Zachmann's plan to record each meeting 
and did not announce that fact during the meetings at issue. While a chair should make 
7 Our office responded on December 5, 2012 to the second email of that day, reminding the Committee about 
the definition of "deliberation" under the Open Meeting Law. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
reasonable efforts to determine whether anyone is recording a specific meeting, such as by 
asking at the start of the meeting whether anyone intends to do so, the chair is not required 
to announce recordings of which he is not aware. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). Because 
Chairman Desmery was not notified prior to each meeting that Mr. Zachmann would be 
recording the meeting, he did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce 
that a recording was being made. Moreover, we note that upon learning of the recordings. 
Chairman Desmery took steps to promptly notify the candidates in attendance at those 
meetings of the recording, and disclosed the issue during the Committee's November 13, 
2012 meeting. 
Mr. Zachmann's email discussions about the recordings did violate the Law, 
however. While Mr. Zachmann's November 11, 2012 email distributed a document for 
discussion at the upcoming meeting (the email correspondence surrounding the recording 
issue), the message transmitting the document included his opinion on the "potentially 
controversial" topic. Expression of an opinion on matters within a body's jurisdiction to a 
quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. 
See OML 2012-15; OML 2012-8; OML 2011-37. Likewise, Mr. Zachmann's November 
14, 2012, November 19, 2012, and December 5, 2012 emails to the Committee also 
concerned matters within the Committee's jurisdiction and should have been saved for 
discussion during an open meeting. In each of those emails, Mr. Zachmann repeatedly 
discussed the recording issue and offered his interpretation of the requirements under the 
Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, Mr. Zachmann's emails were improper deliberations. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the Attorney General determine "whether the 
public body, 1 or more of the members, or both, are responsible" for any violation of the 
Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). We find that Mr. Zachmann's emails constituted an individual 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we find that his violation was not 
intentional, but rather the result of a misunderstanding of the Law's requirements. Mr. 
Zachmann sought guidance from our office months before these events regarding the 
definition of "deliberation" under the Open Meeting Law but, as his June 24, 2012 email 
demonstrates, he misinterpreted our guidance. 
We acknowledge that determining whether certain matters are administrative or 
constitute public business within a public body's jurisdiction can be challenging. 
Therefore, we continue to advise public bodies to avoid communicating over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing documents 
created by non-members to be discussed at meetings, provided that no opinions are 
expressed. OML 2013-29; OML 2013-4. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to announce that its meetings were being recorded because 
the person recording those meetings failed to notify the Chair of that fact. However, we 
find that Committee member William Zachmann individually violated the Open Meeting 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Law by sending electronic communications discussing public business within the 
Committee's jurisdiction to a quorum of the Committee. We do not find that Mr. 
Zachmann intentionally violated the law, however, but rather demonstrated a 
misunderstanding of the Law's requirements. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
caution Mr. Zachmann that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-
2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Philip Tortorella 
Duxbury Town Counsel Search Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 