===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       January 29, 2024 
   
       OML 2024 – 17 
 
 
Ryan S. Clemens, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
 
By email only: ryan@mtclawyers.com 
 
 RE:  Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Clemens: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Authier on April 11, 2023, alleging that the 
South Hadley Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 9, 2023, and you responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 24, 2023.  The complaint alleges that a 
quorum of the Board attended and spoke at a meeting of the Fire District 1 Prudential Committee 
(the “Committee”) held on March 8, 2023, without posting notice of a meeting of the Board.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we 
reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Committee meeting held on March 8, 
2023.
1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on March 8, 2023, was provided to our office by Town Legal 
Counsel Ryan Clemens.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On March 8, 2023, the Committee held a meeting and discussed whether to move the fire 
district annual election from the posted location, which was the high school, to the fire district 
headquarters and whether to change the date of the fire district annual election, which was 
scheduled for April 11, 2023, the same day as the town election.  Approximately 20 people 
attended the Committee meeting, which lasted about two hours, and many attendees participated.  
Four members of the Board – Andrea Miles, Renee Sweeney, Carol Constant, and Nicole 
Casolari – attended the meeting and all four Board members spoke during the meeting.   
 
At one point during the meeting, the Committee asked those in attendance what their 
concerns were with moving the fire district election from the high school to the fire district 
headquarters.  Board member Andrea Miles raised her hand and, when called upon by the 
Committee Chair, identified herself by name and address.  Ms. Miles stated that she was 
concerned with “voter suppression” if residents were required to attend two elections, one for the 
fire district and one for the town, at two separate locations and on two separate dates.  Board 
member Renee Sweeney, after raising her hand and being called upon by the Committee Chair, 
did not identify herself but simply stated the number of individuals who voted in the Fire District 
1 elections over the past twenty years.  Thereafter, Ms. Miles engaged in a general discussion 
with the Committee about bylaws after being asked by the Committee about the procedure for 
enacting bylaws. 
 
Forty-five minutes after the meeting began, the Committee went into recess as one 
Committee member stepped away and left the meeting room, but the Committee continued to 
record the meeting and engage with those in attendance; attendees can also be seen talking 
amongst themselves.  The Committee re-convened the meeting approximately five minutes later 
and discussed whether it should change the date of the fire district’s annual election or the date 
of the fire district’s annual meeting.  Board member Nicole Casolari raised her hand and, when 
called upon by the Committee Chair, identified herself by name and address.  She asked the 
Committee how they planned to get good voter turnout, advertise for any new election date 
and/or location, and what the cost would be if the election were not held at the current posted 
location of the high school.  The Committee thereafter engaged with Ms. Casolari asking for her 
recommendations on outreach to the community.  Approximately five minutes later, Board 
member Carol Constant raised her hand, and when called upon by the Committee Chair, 
identified herself by name and stated that many things have changed since she moved to town in 
1970 and urged the Committee to consider keeping the fire district election at the high school on 
the same date as the town election.   
 
The Committee continued to discuss whether to move the fire district annual election or 
the fire district annual meeting to a new date and place for another 40 minutes.  Ultimately, the 
Committee unanimously voted to keep the fire district election on April 11, 2023, at the high 
school. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that “a public body shall 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays
 and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law excludes from the definition of “meeting,” however, the 
“attendance by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that has complied 
with the notice requirements of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members 
communicate only by open participation in the meetings on those matters under discussion by the 
host body and do not deliberate.”  Id.   
 
“Deliberation” is defined as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
incl
uding electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of 
a meeting agenda, scheduling information or other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the 
definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  Any 
communication among a quorum of a public body on matters that are pending or will come 
before it and within the public body’s jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; 
OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 
243 (2018).  Moreover, the expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters 
within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other 
public body member responds.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board fai
 led to post notice when a quorum of the Board 
attended a meeting of the Committee held on March 8, 2023, and because a quorum of Board 
members was present and spoke at this meeting, the Board deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting.  A quorum of a public body may attend the meeting of another public body 
without posting notice so long as the visiting public body members listen and participate as 
members of the audience and do not deliberate.  See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-6.  When 
determining whether a quorum of a public body has deliberated while attending the meeting of 
another public body, we look for indicia of deliberation such as whether the visiting body 
members were seated with the general public and whether they participated by open 
participation, and not in a special capacity as public body members.  See OML 2021-108; OML 
2016-117; OML 2012-6.  We also consider whether the public body members in attendance 
appeared to direct their remarks primarily toward their fellow public body members in 
attendance, or whether the remarks were directed primarily at the public and the public body 
whose meeting was being attended.  See OML 2021-171; OML 2020-93; OML 2017-111.   
 
Although the Board admits that a quorum of members was present at the Committee 
mee
ting held on March 8, 2023, the Open Meeting Law is clear that the mere presence of a 
quorum of a public body at a meeting or event is not improper, as long as there is no 
deliberation.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  We find here that the Board did not deliberate during the 
meeting even though all four Board members actively participated.  The facts that support this 
conclusion include that the Chair of the Committee allowed extensive public comment during the 
meeting, with many members of the public called on to speak, and the Board members who 
spoke did so in the same manner as the many other members of the public who were permitted to 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
offer comment.  In addi tion, the Board members raised their hand and waited to be called on; 
spoke in their personal capacities to express their personal views on the issue under 
consideration; directed their comments to the Committee; and appeared to receive no special 
treatment nor were granted any particular deference.  See OML 2021-71.  Finally, although all 
four Board members sat in a row next to each other, the meeting room was small and the Board 
explains that, when members arrived, the only chairs available were all towards the back of the 
room.  We conclude that, because the Board members did not deliberate, no meeting occurred for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law and the Board was therefore not required to post notice.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Robert Authier – By email only:   
South Hadley Selectboard – By email only: selectboard@southhadleyma.gov  
South Hadley Town Clerk Sarah Gmeiner – By email only: 
sgmeiner@southhadleyma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
