===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 14, 2015 
OML 2015-189 
Elizabeth Wurfbain 
Hyannis Main Street Business Improvement District 
397 Main St. 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Wurfbain: 
This office received a complaint from Dieter Groll, dated October 21, alleging that the 
Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Hyannis Main Street Business Improvement District (the 
"District") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint 
alleges that the Board has failed to follow the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 9. The Board responded by email 
on September 16. 
Following our review, we find that the Board is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated the Law's requirements. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the Board's website, 
www.hvannismainstreet.com. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The District's mission is to promote the community and 
economic development of the Main Street, Hyannis district as a desirable place to live, work, 
invest, and visit. The District was established in 1999 and is organized as a non-profit 501(c)(6) 
organization. Business Improvement Districts (BID) are funded by the property owners within 
' All dates refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
the district who provide a dependable revenue stream. BIDs are special assessment districts, 
enabled by G.L. c. 40(0) and sanctioned by the local legislative body. The District is overseen 
by a Board of Directors. The 12-member Board is composed of property owners and tenants and 
represents the 100 property owners and all business aspects of the District. The District assists 
property owners and interested parties in development, relocation, redevelopment, and technical 
assistance, and serves as an advocate throughout the regulatory and permitting process. The 
District also advocates for its members on issues such as zoning, housing, security, cultural 
facilities, maintenance, and parking. Although the District was created with the approval of the 
Barnstable City Council by a vote pursuant to G.L. c. 400, §4, the Council has not delegated any 
of its authority to the Board. 
DISCUSSION 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity against which the complaint is filed is a "public body" subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. The Open Meeting Law defines "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple-member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within ... any county, district, city, region or 
town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, to be a public body for the purposes of the Law, the entity 
must be (i) "within" government and not excluded from the definition of "public body"; (ii) a 
body empowered to act collectively; and (iii) charged to serve a public purpose. See OML 2010-
1} When an entity is not clearly placed within government by law, it may still be "within" 
government if the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the group, the 
government has control over the group, and the group primarily performs an essentially 
government function. Id. 
Following our review, we find that the Board is not a public body subject to the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. While government played some role in its creation, it 
remains an association serving the business owners and tenants within the district, more akin to a 
condo association. The local authorities have no direct supervision over its operations. Further, 
the Board operates as an advocacy organization, and does not possess traditional government 
authority. Finally, we note that the District is a registered not-for-profit corporation — a factor 
that weighs against a finding that the Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Given these factors, we find that the Board is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we find that the Board is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated the Law's requirements. We now consider 
this matter closed. Please feel free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Dieter Groll 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 