===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
February 9, 2012 
OML 2012- 8 
Wayne P. Smith, Chairman 
Abington Planning Board 
500 Gliniewicz Way 
Abington, MA 02351 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Smith: 
This Office received a complaint from attorney Shawn Reilly, on behalf of 
Tedeschi Food Shops, Inc., on May 31, 2011, alleging that the Abington Planning Board 
(the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint 
alleges that the Board communicated outside of a properly-posted meeting regarding a 
proposed building project prior to the hearing on the project application. Specifically, the 
complaint alleges that, "Planning Board member Jeffrey Rangel sent an email to all of the 
remaining four members of the Abington Planning Board (thus constituting a quorum)" 
in which he expressed a "very critical" opinion on the application and declared his intent 
to vote against it. Mr. Reilly initially filed the complaint with the Board on April 1, 
2011. The Board responded on April 25, 2011. 
In evaluating the complaint, we reviewed the March 6, 2011 email Mr. Rangel 
sent to the Board; the minutes of the Board's March 28, 2011 meeting; the April 1, 2011 
complaint; the minutes of the Board's April 11, 2011meeting; the Board's April 25, 2011 
response to the April 1, 2011 complaint; and the May 31, 2011 complaint and 
accompanying letter. 
We fmd that Mr. Rangel's email violated the Open Meeting Law because it 
constituted deliberation that should have taken place at an open meeting. We further find 
that the Board's actions in response to Mr. Rangel's improper email adequately upheld 
the requirement of transparency that is the core purpose of the Open Meeting Law. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The material facts are not in dispute. The Abington Planning Board consists of 
five members: Chairman Wayne Smith, Robert Soper, Jeffrey Rangel, Ryan Ricketson, 
and Michael Perrault. The Board routinely meets and deliberates in public on 
applications for proposed development projects, and votes on whether to approve 
applications for Site Plan Review and Special Permit. 
In early 2011, the Board received an application from Tedeschi, Inc. to erect a gas 
station at 538 Bedford Street. The Board scheduled a public hearing on the proposed 
project for March 28, 2011, intended as a forum for public comment and opinion on the 
development. Prior to the meeting, on March 6, 2011, Mr. Rangel sent a strongly-worded 
email to the other Board members regarding the project. In the email, Mr. Rangel 
criticized Tedeschi's proposal and asserted, "[y]ou'll have to remove me from the Board 
before I say yes." None of the Board members responded to Mr. Rangel's email. 
At some point, the email came to the attention of Shawn Reilly, Tedeschi's 
attorney, who introduced and distributed it at the March 28, 2011 public hearing on the 
project. In response, Mr. Rangel read his email into the record and explained his actions. 
The meeting minutes show that Mr. Reilly expressed his belief that the email violated the 
Open Meeting Law and requested that Mr. Rangel recuse himself from future 
proceedings regarding the Tedeschi project. Mr. Rangel did not feel that his email 
violated the law, stating his belief that the law applied only to conversations among 
Board members. Accordingly, he declined to recuse himself from further proceedings on 
the Tedeschi project. Mr. Reilly then requested a continuance until May 2, 2011, which 
the Board granted. On April 1, 2011, Mr. Reilly sent the Board an Open Meeting Law 
complaint. 
On April 11, 2011, the Board held another meeting specifically to discuss the 
Open Meeting Law complaint. The minutes of the meeting state that "it be noted for the 
record that no other Board members responded to the March 6, 2011 email." The 
minutes further state that the four Board members to whom Mr. Rangel sent the email 
"all stated that they could review the project at 538 Bedford St. and make a decision on 
the application before them in accordance with all relevant laws and regulations." The 
Chairman asked Mr. Rangel if he would recuse himself from future proceedings on the 
Tedeschi project, and Mr. Rangel again refused. The Board "had a general discussion 
about the open meeting law," and the Chairman "advised the board members that they 
can make better decisions when the Board allows everyone to have their say at an open 
meeting." 
DISCUSSION 
The Abington Planning Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the 
secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, 
the law requires that the "all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public," 
subject to limited exceptions for executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20 and 21. 
"Meeting" is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any 
matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. at § 18. In turn, "deliberation" is defined as 
"an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a 
meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no 
opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
It is clear from the definition that communications over email can constitute 
deliberation. Furthermore, in a recent similar matter, we found that an email sent by a 
member of a local city council "to a quorum of his fellow Council members, requesting 
that the members report whether or not they support a special election for a ballot 
question" was an improper deliberation even though no Council members responded. 
See OML 2011 — 35. We noted there that the email "could have resulted in the Council 
making policy decisions outside of a public meeting had Council members replied." Id. 
The same principle applies here. 
Mr. Rangel' s email to the Board expressing his opinion regarding the Tedeschi 
project constituted an unlawful deliberation under the Open Meeting Law. Expression of 
an opinion on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The Board acted appropriately by refusing to respond to the email, however. By 
not responding to Mr. Rangel's email, and by disclosing the contents of the email and 
discussing the potential violation at public meetings, they limited the scope and severity 
of the violation. Therefore, we find only an individual violation of the Open Meeting 
Law by Mr. Rangel, and not a violation by the Board as a whole. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that Mr. Rangel violated the Open Meeting Law and direct him to 
review the Open Meeting Law Guide available at the Attorney General's Open 
Government website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. We also direct him, within thirty 
(30) days of the date of this letter, to certify in writing to this office that he has reviewed 
this determination and the Guide. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter resolved. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Shawn Reilly 
4 