===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
August 9, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 150 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
 
Christopher Petrini, Esq. 
Petrini & Associates, P.C. 
Cpetrini@petrinilaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Petrini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Peter Cusolito
1 on May 1, 2024, alleging that the 
Leicester Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 4, and former Board Chair 
Rick Antanavica3 responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 22. 
The complaint alleges that the Board convened in executive session for an improper purpose, 
posted an insufficiently specific notice with respect to an executive session topic,
4 and failed to 
approve meeting minutes in a timely manner.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening in executive session for an improper purpose on February 5 and February 20, failing 
to identify the nonunion personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating with in executive 
session on February 20, and failing to approve one set of open session minutes in a timely 
manner. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
 
1 Peter Cusolito was elected to the Board on June 11. 
2 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
3 Rick Antanavica is no longer a member of the Board. 
4 As explained in the determination, we limit our review to the executive sessions that occurred on February 5 and 
February 20. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the request for further review. In addition, we reviewed 
the notices and open and executive session minutes of the Board meetings held on February 5 
and February 20. Finally, we separately communicated with you and with the complainant. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On February 1 at 4:14 P.M., the Board posted notice 
for a meeting to be held on February 5 at 6:00 P.M. The notice listed five open session topics, as 
well as an executive session “To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2).” The notice identified the specific 
executive session matters as “Police Chief Employment Contract,” “Building Inspector/Zoning 
Enforcement Officer Employment Contract” and “Town Administrator Office Staff.” 
 
The February 5 meeting was held as planned. After convening in open session first, 
Board Vice Chair Dianna Provencher made a motion to convene in executive session and recited 
the purposes listed on the notice; the Board unanimously voted by roll call to enter executive 
session. The Board has not publicly released the minutes of the February 5 executive session and 
therefore we do not recount their content in detail. However, after our in camera review of the 
minutes, we note that the Board first discussed contract terms for the Police Chief and the 
Building Inspector/Zoning Enforcement Officer.
5 The Board then discussed various challenges 
faced by the Town Administrator’s office. The Board, thereafter, reconvened in open session and 
discussed the open session topics. 
 
On February 15 at 4:06 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
February 20 at 6:00 P.M. The notice included four open session topics, as well as an executive 
session “To conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or 
to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) - Town Administrator Office Staff.” 
 
The February 20 meeting was held as planned. After discussing the open session topics, 
Board Member John Bujack made a motion to convene in executive session and recited the 
purpose listed on the notice; the Board unanimously voted by roll call to enter executive session. 
The Board has not publicly released the minutes of the February 20 executive session and 
therefore we do not recount their content in detail. However, after our in camera review of the 
minutes, we note that the Board met with Samantha Chatterton and discussed her background 
and qualifications. Ms. Chatterton was thereafter excused, and the Board discussed contract 
terms to offer her.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 The complaint does not suggest any impropriety regarding the Board’s discussions in executive session with 
respect to contract negotiations with the Police Chief or Building Inspector/Zoning Enforcement Officer . 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Convened in Executive Session for an Improper Purpose on 
February 5 and February 20.  
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94.6   
 
The chair of the public body must announce in open session the purpose for the executive 
se
ssion, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the 
reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification 
given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the 
public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). This level of detail about 
the executive session topic must also be included in the meeting notice. See OML 2016-72.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board conv
 ened in executive session for an improper 
purpose “in at least two instances.” Complainants must allege violations with a degree of 
specificity, as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations. See OML 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). In response to the complaint, 
the Board identified the “two instances” as occurring on February 5 and February 20. Therefore, 
we limit our review to these two meetings. 
 
One permissible purpose for convening in executive session is to “conduct strategy 
ses
sions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”). During the February 5 executive session, the Board discussed challenges within 
the Town Administrator’s office. During the February 20 executive session, the Board met with 
Samantha Chatterton and discussed her background and qualifications for the assistant town 
administrator position. Neither of these topics falls within the scope of Purpose 2. When meeting 
in executive session, a public body may only address subjects that fit within one of the ten 
enumerated purposes and that relate to the narrow executive session purpose the public body 
cited when entering executive session. See District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Board 
of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981). A public body may strategize 
and negotiate with nonunion personnel in executive session under Purpose 2. See OML 2023-78; 
 
6 Open Meeting Law declination letters and determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
OML 2011-56. However, the scope of Purpose 2 is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and 
deli
berations that occur prior to the execution of a contract. See OML 2023-78. We find that the 
Board’s general discussions about the Town Administrator’s office during the February 5 
executive session and the discussions with Ms. Chatterton about her qualifications during the 
February 20 executive session were outside the narrow scope of Purpose 2 and ran afoul of the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2024-47; see also OML 2021-21 (Committee’s discussions 
relative to hiring an interim superintendent and how to respond to comments and questions about 
the superintendent’s departure did not fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, 
or any other executive session purpose). We find that the discussions by the Board after Ms. 
Chatterton left the executive session were appropriate and fit within the parameters of executive 
session Purpose 2 as the discussions pertained to contract negotiations. See OML 2022-71; OML 
2019-51.   
 
We also find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
speci
fic notice with respect to the executive session topic for the February 20 meeting. When 
convening in executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies should identify, both in their 
notice and in the open session announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is 
the subject of discussion under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the public body’s 
negotiating position. See OML 2022-29; OML 2016-70; OML 2015-193. The Board 
acknowledges, and we agree, that it should have identified on the notice the name of the specific 
nonunion personnel, Samantha Chatterton, that was the subject of the February 20 executive 
session, and the Board Chair should have publicly identified Ms. Chatterton as the subject of 
discussion prior to convening in executive session. See OML 2020-30; OML 2013-97; OML 
2012-39; OML 2011-56.    
 
II. The Board Failed to Approve One Set of Meeting Minutes in a Timely 
Manner. 
 
The complaint alleges t hat the Board “continually violates open meeting law in regard to 
approving meeting minutes” but does not identify any specific meeting minutes that were not 
timely approved. We will not conduct broad audits of a public body and thus decline to review 
generalized allegations about the approval practices of the Board. See OML 2016-57. 
Nonetheless, in response to the complaint, the Board states that “[a]ll open session minutes 
relating to meetings that occurred more than thirty days prior to your complaint have been 
approved, with the exception of one open session held on January 2, 2024.” Accordingly, we 
limit our review of this allegation to the minutes of the meeting held on January 2. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and approve minutes of all open 
ses
sions in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next three 
public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show 
good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 
2017-133. Here, the Board acknowledges, and we agree, that minutes of the meeting held on 
January 2 were not approved within the later of the next three meetings or 30 days following the 
meeting. See OML 2021-155. As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by not approving the January 2 meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We remind the Board that, in general, staffing shortages of the type that all governmental 
bodies
 with limited resources experience, or periodic staff vacancies, do not constitute good 
cause for failing to approve minutes in a timely manner, as it is the responsibility of the public 
body and its members to take steps to ensure that staff have adequate assistance to complete the 
minutes in a timely manner, including having members of the public body assist in the creation 
of minutes if necessary. See OML 2021-177; OML 2018-105; OML 2015-86. Ultimately, the 
responsibility for complying with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meeting minutes be 
created and approved in a timely manner rests with public bodies and members of such bodies, 
not with individual public employees, such as administrative staff. See OML 2018-105.  
 
With respect to the concerns raised in the complaint that the Board does not timely 
approve
 executive session minutes, the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes of executive 
sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether continued nondisclosure 
is warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Public bodies have an obligation to create and maintain 
minutes of executive sessions, and to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable 
intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted and announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2015-
94; OML 2013-56. Although “reasonable intervals” is not defined by the law, our office has 
consistently found a quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 
2022-233; OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. We remind the 
Board of its obligations under the law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening in executive session for an improper purpose on February 5 and February 20, posting 
a notice with insufficient specificity with respect to the executive session topic for the meeting 
held on February 20, and failing to approve the minutes of the January 2 meeting in a timely 
manner. We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
In addition, we order the Boar
 d to publicly release that portion of the February 5 
executive session minutes that pertains to the discussions of the Town Administrator’s Office 
and to publicly release that portion of the February 20 executive session minutes that pertains to 
the discussions with Ms. Chatterton about her qualifications and background. The Board may not 
redact or withhold these portions of the minutes in any way. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The 
minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their 
entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21”) 
(emphasis added)); OML 2014-42. The Board must notify the Attorney General in writing of its 
compliance with this order within 30 days of the date of this letter. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Rebecca Wood, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Peter Cusolito (via email: ) 
Leicester Select Board c/o Town Administrator David Genereux (via email: 
genereuxd@leicesterma.org)  
Leicester Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@leicesterma.org)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
