===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 29, 2018 
OML 2018-122 
Carolyn Murray, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray; 
This office received a complaint from Tom Robinson, dated May 4, 2018, alleging that 
the Hubbardston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 20, 2018, and the 
Board responded by letter dated April 2, 2018.1 In his complaint, Mr. Robison alleges that the 
Board posted an insufficiently detailed meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the law as alleged in the complaint. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of a Board meeting 
held on January 22, 2018, as well as the minutes of the Board's executive session and open 
session held on this same date. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 
22, 2018. The first item listed on the notice was an anticipated executive session to discuss 
contract negotiations. The notice did not indicate that the meeting would begin in open session. 
The Board convened the January 22, 2018, meeting as planned. After convening the meeting in 
open session, the Board voted to enter executive session. 
1 Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that, unless an 
extension has been granted by the Attorney General, a public body must respond to a complaint within 14 business 
days after receiving it by reviewing the allegations; taking remedial action, if appropriate; and sending a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken to the Attorney General. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
o 
MAURA FIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include "a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." kL The 
list of topics must be sufficiently detailed to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed during the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). When the only business to be discussed in 
open session prior to convening in executive session is the procedural requirements for entering 
executive session, listing "open session" or some other appropriate placeholder on the meeting 
notice is the only means by which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in 
fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-9. 
Without such notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and 
learn the purpose for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. 
Here, the Board posted a meeting notice that did not indicate that the meeting would 
begin in open session. This failure violated the Open Meeting Law. As the complaint correctly 
notes, this office issued a determination letter on July 5, 2017, in which we informed the Board 
that this same behavior violated the law. See OML 2017-161. An intentional violation of the 
Open Meeting Law is "an act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing 
violation of the Law." 940 CMR 29.02. Evidence of an intentional violation includes that a 
public body was previously advised by the Attorney General that the conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2017-23. 
In this instance, the Board's legal counsel informed us that the Board utilizes a town 
administrator to create its meeting notices, and, because of changeover in that position, the town 
administrator in place at the time of the January 22, 2018, violation was not aware of our July 5, 
2017, determination. We remind the Board that no matter who it utilizes to create its meeting 
notices, the Board itself is responsible for ensuring that all notices conform to the Open Meeting 
Law's requirements. We further note that each member of a public body is required, within two 
weeks of the member's election or appointment or the taking of the oath of office, to sign a 
certification verifying that he or she has received and reviewed a copy of each Open Meeting 
Law determination issued by the Attorney General within the last five years to the public body of 
which he or she is a member and in which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. Nonetheless, in light of the specific circumstances of this case, we decline to find 
an intentional violation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Further, we 
order the Board to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training video concerning 
meeting notices.2 The Board member should notify our office in writing that they have complied 
with this order within thirty (30) days. See 940 CMR 29.07(4). We caution the Board that 
2 This training video is available here: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DyfWT_BXGcQ&index=2&list=PLEwaMB2rDiKD7uRdMUIu2fpB0r-
pMjZdS. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
similar future violations may result in a finding of an intentional violation, including the 
imposition of a monetary fine. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4). 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tom Robinson 
Hubbardston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 