===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 15, 2022 
       
       OML 2022 – 151 
 
 
Brian W. Riley, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: briley@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE:  Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Chilcott on October 14, 2021, alleging that 
the Pembroke Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,  §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 5, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 16.  The  
complaint alleges that the Board i) discussed a topic, mask mandates, that was not listed on the 
notice of a meeting held on September 1; ii) deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting; 
and iii)  improperly raised concerns about a town employee during an open session of the 
September 1 meeting rather than in executive session.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include a topic 
regarding mask mandates on its notice for the September 1 meeting.  We find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video 
recording of the Board meeting held on September 1, as well as the notice, minutes and video 
recording of the Board of Health meeting held on September 1.
2    
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on September 1 is available at 
https://archive.org/details/PACTVMAG-PEM-BOS-090121; a video recording of the Board of Health meeting held 
on September 1 is available at https://archive.org/details/PACTVMAG-PEM-BOH-090121.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On August 30 at 11:30 A.M., the Board of Health posted 
notice for a meeting to be held on September 1 at 1:00 P.M.  The notice included the following 
topic: “Discuss and Possible Vote Mask Mandate for Pembroke.”   
 
The Board of Health met on September 1 and discussed whether to implement an indoor 
mask mandate.  The Board heard from members of the public, as well as the Assistant Town 
Manager who expressed concerns with how local business owners would enforce a mandate and 
requested that the Board of Health discuss how to notify local business owners of any possible 
mandate in a timely manner.  Although the Chair of the Board of Health made a motion to 
require masks to be worn indoors in the town for the next 30 days, the motion was not supported 
and the Board did not take any vote on imposing a mask mandate.  
 
On August 30 at 6:00 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
September 1 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed thirteen topics, including “Town Manager’s Report.”  
This topic heading did not include any further specific item descriptions that advised the public 
of the topics to be discussed.
3   
 
The September 1 meeting was held as planned.  The Board first held a public hearing on 
a petition from National Grid and Verizon to relocate utility poles.  The Board then received an 
update from the Plymouth County Commissioners on the receipt of American Rescue Plan Act 
funds; appointed an individual to the Advisory Committee; accepted resignations from two 
individuals on the Town Landing Committee; interviewed applicants for the Public Safety 
Building Committee and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee; and approved two sets of 
meeting minutes.   
 
The Board then received a report from the Town Manager who discussed the vaccination 
rate and the current number of COVID cases in town.  Board Member Rebecca Coletta asked the 
Town Manager why the Assistant Town Manager told the Board of Health, at its meeting earlier 
that day, that it would be difficult to implement an indoor mask mandate.  The Town Manager 
suggested that the Assistant Town Manager’s comments focused on the difficulty in providing 
notice of an indoor mask mandate to business owners.  The Assistant Town Manager then spoke 
on her own behalf clarifying that her statement to the Board of Health was to ask them to have a 
dialogue with interested parties about a possible mask mandate and that business owners be 
notified of any mandate as soon as possible.  The Board continued to discuss the use of masks 
and whether there should be a mask mandate in town public buildings.  Ultimately no decision 
was reached and the Board did not vote on any mask mandate. 
 
 
 
 
3 We note that when a meeting notice includes as a topic a report or presentation by somebody who is not a member 
of the public body, such as “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we encourage public 
body chairs as a best practice to solicit from the Town Manager and include on the meeting notice more detail 
regarding the precise matters to be discussed.  See OML 2019-94; OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19.   
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
4   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a topic, i.e., a mask mandate, that was not 
listed on the notice of the September 1 meeting.  The Board admits that several members 
“anticipated speaking on that subject at their meeting, so issues concerning mask mandates could 
have been listed on the notice.”  As such, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by not specifically including on the notice a topic to discuss mask mandates.   
 
The complaint further alleges that tw
 o members of the Board discussed a mask mandate 
prior to the September 1 meeting.  The Board denies that any members discussed a mask 
mandate outside of a properly posted meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we 
credit the Board’s account of the facts.  See OML 2014-122.  Nevertheless, the complaint only 
alleges that two members of the Board communicated about a mask mandate prior to the 
September 1 meeting.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three members constitute a 
quorum.  Therefore, even if we viewed communications to have occurred between two Board 
members, we would find that such communication does not constitute deliberation because the 
communication was between two members of the Board, which is not a quorum.  See OML 
2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.  As such, we find that the Board did not deliberate 
outside of a properly posted meeting, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Fina
lly, the complaint alleges that the Board raised concerns about a town employee in 
open session rather than executive session.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public 
bodies to meet in executive session but rather, if a public body chooses to meet in executive 
session, it must do so only for one of the enumerated purposes.  One executive session purpose 
allows a public body to enter executive session “to discuss the reputation, character, physical 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence of an individual, or to discuss 
the disc
ipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  Here, Board Member Coletta 
questioned statements made by the Assistant Town Manager at a Board of Health meeting.  Even 
if this brief discussion amounted to a complaint against the Assistant Town Manager, which we 
do not believe it did, the Board was not required to have such discussion in executive session and 
the subject of the discussion has no right under the Open Meeting Law to demand that the Board 
do so.  See OML 2019-160; OML 2012-32.  As such, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by choosing not to meet in executive session.    
 
Moreover, we note t
 hat except when meeting in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1), the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to provide additional 
notice of meetings to specific individuals or groups of individuals for topics discussed during a 
meeting.  See OML 2013-41; OML 2011-41.  Here, the Board discussed the Assistant Town 
Manager in open session and therefore was not required to provide her with individual notice.  
But see G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (an individual to be discussed during a Purpose 1 executive 
session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed 
executive session). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include a topic regarding mask mandates on its notice for the September 1 
meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc:  Patrick Chilcott – By email only  
Pembroke Select Board c/o Town Manager William Chenard – By email only: 
wchenard@townofpembrokemass.org 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
