===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
May 16, 2019 
OML 2019-51
John J. Clifford, Esq.
Clifford & Kenny LLP 
31 Schoosett Street, Suite 405 
Pembroke, MA 02359
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Clifford:
This office received a complaint from Mary Parsons on September 17, alleging that the 
Rockland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 7, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 27. The complaint 
alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it improperly hired the IT Director 
at its July 31 meeting.
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the July 31 meeting notice and the open 
and executive session meeting minutes from the Board’s meeting held on July 31, as well as a 
video recording of this meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with the Board’s counsel and considered the 
emails and relevant attachments Ms. Parsons sent to our office.
FACTS
We find the relevant facts as follows. Prior to the Board’s July 31 meeting, the Board 
tasked then-interim Town Administrator, Police Chief John Llewellyn, with interviewing 
candidates for the open IT Director position and offering one of those candidates an employment
1 All dates in this letter refer to 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 The video recording is available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gASW5zwLvl8&list=PLH12n7SsKux- 
3JFMM22qHA2Uv3krGX08V&index=19&t=0s

===PAGE 2===
contract, subject to the Board’s approval. After conducting interviews, Chief Llewellyn offered 
the position to Eugene Gingras.
On July 31, the Board convened its meeting in open session. After conducting other 
business, the Board voted to convene in executive session to discuss, among other things, the 
contract details for Mr. Gingras as IT Director. The Board met with Mr. Gingras in executive 
session “to discuss salary, vacation and other pertinent contract details.” The Board reached 
agreement with Mr. Gingras for a three-year contract with a first-year salary of $88,000, and the 
salary of the following two years to be determined at a later date.
The Board then returned to open session. Town Counsel John Clifford briefly explained 
that, while in executive session, the Board discussed the contract for Mr. Gingras as IT Director 
for the Town. Attorney Clifford further stated that the Board voted to award Mr. Gingras a 
three-year contract with an initial one-year salary of $88,000 and recommended that the Board 
vote in open session to approve a contract with the terms that were negotiated and reached in 
executive session. Board Member Michael O’Loughlin then made a motion to approve Mr. 
Gingras’ contract, seconded by Board Member Michael Mullen, which the Board unanimously 
approved in open session.3
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in open 
session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for N. Dist. V. Sch. Comm, of 
Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009). One permissible reason is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose • 
2”). Purpose 2 does not allow a public body to execute a final agreement behind closed doors; 
any vote to execute an agreed-upon contract must take place in open session. See OML 2015- 
184.4
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly met in executive session to hire a new 
IT Director. Here, the Board convened in executive session on July 31 to negotiate the terms of 
Mr. Gingras’ employment contract. Although Chief Llewellyn had already offered Mr. Gingras 
the IT Director position, he left the terms of the employment contract for the Board to decide. 
While in executive session, Mr. Gingras fielded questions from the Board regarding his desired 
contract terms and he and the Board negotiated the length of the contract, vacation time, and an 
exclusivity services clause to protect the Town. The Board unanimously agreed to offer Mr.
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the July 31 meeting notice and the announcement made during 
open session should have identified the nonunion personnel with whom the Committee would be negotiating, if 
doing so would not have compromised the purpose for the executive session. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 
2017-53; OML 2016-43.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Gingras a three-year contract with a salary of $88,000 the first year, salary for years two and 
three to be determined pending a job description, measurable goals, and a review with the Town 
Administrator no later than February 2019. The Board also agreed to four weeks of vacation 
time for Mr. Gingras. After this, the Board reconvened in open session and unanimously voted 
to approve Mr. Gingras’ contract.
We conclude that the discussions in executive session, which pertained to contract 
negotiations, fell within a proper statutory purpose. A public body may strategize and negotiate 
with the specific non-union personnel in executive session under Purpose 2. See OML 2011- 
56. However, the scope of the purpose is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and 
deliberations that occur prior to on the execution of a contract. The Open Meeting Law does not 
permit a public body to execute a contract behind closed doors where the public cannot witness 
the agreement. Here, even though the Board reached consensus as to the terms of Mr. Gingras’ 
employment contract in executive session and took a vote to ensure there was agreement on the 
terms to propose and vote on in open session, the Board did not formally approve the 
employment contract until it returned to open session. See OML 2015-184. Therefore, the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
The complaint further alleges that the public was not “informed of how many candidates 
submitted a resume for the position” of IT Director or “how that person was determined to be the 
best candidate.” The Open Meeting Law applies only to deliberations by public body members 
and requires that deliberations occur only at a properly noticed public meeting. We are 
cognizant of the fact that had the Board conducted interviews itself or delegated the authority to 
a preliminary screening committee pursuant to General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a) 8, the 
process would have been governed by the Open Meeting Law and might have been conducted 
more publicly. But when a public body chooses to delegate authority to an individual, the 
actions of that individual are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we find no 
violation in this regard.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis
Special Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
3

===PAGE 4===
cc: Mary Parsons
Rockland Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
