===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 25, 2015 
OML 2015-142 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Acting Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Howayeck: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated March 16, alleging that the 
Fall River Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive session for an 
improper purpose during its February 4 meeting to discuss the 2015 budget. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on February 17. The Board responded in an undated letter, 
received by this office on March 6. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
announce all of the topics for its February 4 executive session discussion and by failing to create 
sufficiently detailed minutes of the same meeting. We find that the topics that were discussed in 
executive session were permissible, however. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the notice, open session minutes, and a video of the Board's February 
4 meeting.2 We reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the Board's February 4 executive session. 
Finally, we spoke with Attorney Matthew Thomas, who works with the Board, by telephone on 
April 22. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 Available at: http://vod.frgtv.us/video/l 19436673. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The notice for the Board's February 4 meeting listed a topic 
for discussion as "Executive Session," with four sub-topics following: "a. Discuss Abatement b. 
ATB Settlement c. Fiscal Year 2015 Department Budget d. South Park Pro Forma."3 
During the February 4 meeting, the Board discussed business in open session before 
reaching the executive session portion of the meeting. Prior to entering into executive session, 
the Board Chair asked for a motion to enter into executive session to discuss abatements, the 
ATB settlement, the fiscal year 2015 department budget, and the South Park pro forma. The 
Board then took a unanimous roll-call vote to enter into executive session. 
Although the executive session minutes have not been publicly released, we note that 
their contents consist of a single sentence restating three of the four discussion topics that were 
announced publicly, namely, abatements, ATB Settlement, and the Fiscal Year 2015 Department 
Budget. The Board met in executive session for 32 minutes, during which one of the topics it 
discussed was the approval of a medical leave request. The Board did not discuss its fiscal year 
department budget. 
DISCUSSION 
All meetings of a public body must be open to the public, unless the public body enters 
into executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter executive, or closed, 
session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a). Before entering executive 
session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, including all subjects that may 
be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). The public body may only discuss matters in executive session that fall 
within the ten enumerated purposes and where the chair has publicly identified the purposes that 
apply to the discussion. Id. 
One of the ten enumerated purposes for executive session permits a public body to 
"discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Another purpose permits a public body to 
enter into executive session to "comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). Massachusetts 
General Laws state that applications for tax abatement or exemption may only be disclosed to a 
select group of public officials, though certain information about the application must be made 
public if it is granted. G.L. c. 59, § 60. Thus, we have said that, if a board of assessors plans to 
discuss the content of an application for tax abatement or exemption, it may do so in executive 
session citing Purpose 7. See OML 2013-96; OML 2012-101.4 
3 We understand that "ATB" referenced the Appellate Tax Board, the state board that reviews appeals from tax 
decisions rendered by local boards of assessors. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
1. The Board Failed to Announce All of the Topics it Discussed During its February 4 
Executive Session Meeting. 
The Board identified four subjects that it planned to discuss in executive session on 
February 4: abatements, the ATB settlement, the fiscal year 2015 department budget, and the 
South Park pro forma.5 According to the minutes, it discussed only the first three topics. 
Although no statutory basis was identified by the Board, the first two topics appear to 
have been appropriate under Purpose 7 and Purpose 3, respectively. The first topic, abatements, 
was appropriate under Purpose 7, because the Board entered executive session to comply with 
the law protecting the confidentiality of abatement applications, G.L. c. 59, § 60. The ATB 
settlement discussion was permissible under executive session Purpose 3, because it was a 
discussion of strategy with respect to defending an appeal of a Board decision to a quasi-judicial 
state agency. See OML 2012-81. 
The third topic the Board stated it would discuss, the fiscal year 2015 department budget, 
was not appropriate for executive session. There is no purpose that permits a public body to 
discuss a department budget in executive session. In response to the complaint, the Board writes 
that the "Fiscal Year 2015 Department Budget was discussed during Executive Session due to 
the fact that the discussion involved personnel issues as well as sensitive nature (sic) and 
required discussion in Executive Session pursuant to the provision of the MA Open Meeting 
Law." It appears that the Board did not actually discuss its budget in executive session, 
however, but rather discussed an employee's medical leave request. The Open Meeting Law 
does not include an executive session purpose that broadly covers "personnel issues" or matters 
of a "sensitive nature."6 The Board could have discussed a medical leave request under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). However, the Board failed to cite this purpose or disclose that it would discuss 
a medical leave request, and thus violated the Open Meeting Law. 
5 We note that the Chair's statement represented only half of the disclosure the Law requires the Chair to make. The 
Chair must state the purpose for the executive session as well as identifying all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purposes for executive session. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of 
Wavland, 455 Mass, 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper."); G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Stating the statutory executive session purpose on 
which the Board relied would have provided the public with more information about the Board's intended 
discussion without compromising the purpose for the executive session. Because the Board discussed abatements, it 
should have cited Purpose 7 specifically, and the statute pursuant to which it was acting, namely G.L. c. 59, § 60. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7); Wavland. 455 Mass. at 567. The Board should have also cited Purpose 3 to discuss 
litigation strategy related to the ATB settlement, and cited the specific litigation matter if doing so would not 
compromise the purpose of the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), (b)(3). 
6 The law does permit a public body to discuss the mental or physical health of an employee in executive session, 
provided certain procedures are followed, including providing the individual with the opportunity to be present 
during the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Therefore, not only was one of the stated purposes for the 
February 4 executive session improper, but also the Board's discussion of a specific personnel matter in private, 
without the employee present, was not appropriate for executive session. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2. The Board Failed to Create Sufficiently Detailed Minutes of its February 4 Executive 
Session Meeting. 
Although not raised by the complainant, our review raised concerns about the sufficiency 
of the Board's February 4 meeting minutes. A public body must create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A summary need not be a transcript of 
the discussion, however minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of 
the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding 
of what occurred. See OML 2013-14; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
Here, the executive session minutes contain no summary of the Board's 32-minute 
discussion. There is no record of any votes or action taken. These minutes fail to provide any 
detail about what the Board discussed. We therefore find that the minutes do not comply with 
the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board failed to announce a topic that it discussed during its February 4 
executive and failed to create sufficient minutes of the same meeting. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a 
similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
Additionally, we order the Board to amend the minutes of its February 4 executive session to 
include a summary of its discussions and a record of any actions taken, and to send a copy of the 
amended executive session minutes to our office to confirm its compliance with this order. This 
must occur within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. 
Because we find that the Board failed to follow certain required procedures when it 
entered into executive session on February 4, the Board may not continue to withhold these 
minutes under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) ("The minutes of any executive 
session .. . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety ... as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21" (emphasis added)); 
OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30; OML 2014-17. The Board may, however, continue to withhold 
these minutes in whole or in part if an exemption to the Public Records Law or the 
attorney/client privilege applies. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River Board of Assessors 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 