===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 5, 2015 
OML 2015-110 
Frank K. Duffy, Jr., Esq. 
Falmouth Town Counsel 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Duffy: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated May 6, alleging that the 
Falmouth Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to give notice that it would 
convene in open session prior to its March 30 executive session meeting and that the notice for 
the March 30 meeting was not sufficiently specific. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on April 19. The Board responded by letter dated May 1. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for, and 
minutes of, the Board's March 30 meeting. 
FACTS 
The notice for the Board's March 30 meeting included the following masthead: 
TOWN OF FALMOUTH 
BOARD OF SELECTMEN 
Revised 
AGENDA 
Monday, March 30, 2015 - 5:30 p.m. 
SELECTMEN'S MEETING ROOM 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
V<9 
===PAGE 2===
The notice listed the following topics for discussion: 
5:30 p.m. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
1. G.L. c. 30A, s.21.(a)(3)-Litigation - Discussion Wind Turbine 
7:00 p.m. CALL TO ORDER 
The notice then included several topics for open session discussion. 
During the Board's March 30 meeting, the Board convened in open session and then 
voted to enter into executive session. While in executive session, the Board discussed several 
litigation matters related to the presence of wind turbines at its wastewater treatment plant. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board's March 30 Meeting Notice Complied with the Open Meeting Law's 
Requirements for Noticing a Meeting. 
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of 
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(b)(l)-(3). The notice for the Board's March 30 meeting listed an executive session at 5:30 
PM, with the Call to Order for regular business beginning at 7:00 PM. However, the masthead 
of the notice made it clear that the meeting began at 5:30 PM. When the only business to be 
discussed during an open session are the procedural requirements for entering executive session, 
we have said that public bodies must list "open session" on the meeting notice, as this is the only 
means by which members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an 
open meeting that they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.2 Without such 
notice, members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the 
reasons for the executive session. See OML 2013-195. However, where additional open session 
topics are included in a meeting notice, we have not required a public body list "open session" as 
a distinct topic. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-155, FN 5; OML 2013-141, FN 7. Here, the 
full notice provides context placing the executive session as a topic for discussion during an 
otherwise open meeting. We therefore find that the Board was not required to list "open 
session," and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting this statement. 
Although we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, we are concerned that members 
of the public may be confused by the format of a notice such as this one. We suggest that, in the 
future, the Board list "Call to Order" or "Open Session" prior to the executive session so that it is 
absolutely clear to members of the public that the public portion of the meeting begins prior to 
the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(l)-(3). 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The Board's March 30 Meeting Notice Sufficiently Identified the Purpose for its 
Executive Session. 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Before entering into executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). One purpose for executive 
session is for public bodies to discuss, "strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation 
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the 
public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
Here, the notice topic for the March 30 executive session clearly identified both the 
statutory purpose, "G.L. c. 30A, s.21(a)(3)," and the subject of the discussion: "Litigation -
Discussion Wind Turbine." During the executive session the Board discussed a series of 
pending litigation matters involving wind turbines in Falmouth. We find that the notice topic 
was sufficiently specific to notify the public of the discussion that occurred.3 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
y -' Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Falmouth Board of Selectmen 
Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 We note that, generally, public bodies should identify the specific litigation matter that is the subject of an 
executive session called pursuant to Purpose 3. See OML 2015-14; OML 2014-50; OML 2012- 118. Here, the 
litigation surrounding the wind turbines has been the subject of frequent coverage in the local media, the subject of 
warrant articles in the town, the subject of a ballot question at a local election, and has been a frequent agenda topic 
at Board meetings. Given the public familiarity with the issue, the level of detail in the notice was sufficient. We 
nevertheless suggest that, for the utmost clarity in the future, the Board identify each litigation matter that will be 
discussed in executive session, if doing to will not compromise the puipose for the executive session. See G.L. c. 
30A, §21(b)(3). 
3 