===PAGE 1===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 3, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 124 
 
 
Jessica Pacheco 
Assessing Technician 
Town Assessor’s Office 
400 Slocum Rd 
Dartmouth, MA 02747 
 
By e-mail only: jpacheco@town.dartmouth.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Pacheco: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on April 7, 2023, alleging that the 
Dartmouth Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 2, 2023, and you responded 
to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 21, 2023.
1 The complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to follow proper procedure for responding to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint and failed to include sufficient specificity on the notices for the meetings held on 
February 9 and March 2. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
notices with insufficient specificity for the Board’s February 9 and March 2 meetings. We find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other way alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notices and minutes of the 
Board meetings held on February 9 and March 2. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notices for meetings to be held on 
February 9 and March 2. Both of these notices listed the topic “Approval of Meeting Minutes.”  
The Board did not specify on the notices the meeting dates of the minutes it planned to approve. 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On February 9, Mr. Higgins filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board 
alleging that the Board failed to create accurate minutes of the meeting held on January 19. Later 
that same day, the Board held a meeting as planned. During the meeting, the Board voted to 
unanimously approve the minutes of the meeting held on January 19. The Board also discussed 
increasing staff and an Administrator of Assessing Position. The open session portion of the 
meeting lasted approximately 10 minutes and the Board then convened in executive session to 
discuss abatements. 
 
Although the minutes of the February 9 meeting do not reference any discussion by the 
Board of the Open Meeting Law complaint that was filed on February 9, the Board asserts, and 
the complainant has provided no contrary evidence, that it voted unanimously during the 
February 9 meeting to address the complaint and send a letter to the complainant.  
 
By letter dated February 17, Chair Robert Michaud responded to the February 9 
complaint on behalf of the Board. The complainant asserts that he did not receive a copy of this 
response. The Board explains that the letter was mailed on February 17 but was returned because 
the PO Box number was missing from the address listed on the envelope. The Board maintains 
that it mailed a new letter to the complainant after the original was returned.
2  
 
The Board posted notice for and held a meeting on March 2.
3 During the meeting, the 
Board voted unanimously to approve the minutes of the meeting held on February 9.   
 
Also on March 2, the complainant filed the complaint at issue here. The complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to review and discuss the previous complaint that was filed on February 9 
and failed to send a copy of the response to the complainant. The complaint further alleges that 
the Board posted meeting notices with insufficient specificity.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the notices for the Board meetings on February 9 and March 2 
are insufficiently specific where they do not list the dates of the minutes to be approved during 
each meeting. Here, during the February 9 meeting, the Board approved the minutes of the 
meeting held on January 19, and during the March 2 meeting, the Board approved the minutes of 
the meeting held on February 9. The Board acknowledges that the dates of the meeting minutes 
that were to be approved were reasonably anticipated by the chair, thus we find that the Board 
 
2 It appears that the Board mailed a copy of the response letter to both the complainant and our office on February 
17. Our office received a copy of that letter on or about February 23. 
3 We note that the notice listed the time of the meeting as 10:30 P.M. However, the minutes indicate that the meeting 
began at 10:49 A.M. We caution the Board to review the notice before posting to ensure that the actual time of the 
meeting is accurately reflected on the notice. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
violated the Open Meeting Law by not including this information on the notices. See OML 2020-
34; OML 2017-92; OML 2014-118.4 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to follow proper procedure for 
res
ponding to an Open Meeting Law complaint when it did not meet to review the February 9 
complaint before delegating the Chair to respond. The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 
days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description 
of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Upon the filing of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair “shall disseminate copies of the 
complaint to the members of the public body,” and “the public body shall review the complaint’s 
allegations.” 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 
business days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.  
 
The Board main
 tains that it discussed the complaint during the February 9 meeting but 
acknowledges that the complaint is not reflected on the notice for the February 9 meeting. The 
Board explains that the complaint was received on the day of the meeting and was discussed 
during the “New Business” portion of the meeting because it was an unanticipated topic. A 
public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by 
the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Where the 
complaint was filed on February 9, the day of the meeting, the topic could not have been 
anticipated by the Chair 48 hours before the meeting. As such, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the complaint during the February 9 meeting.
5 See 
OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  
 
Although the Board maintains that it discussed the complaint during the February 9 
meetin
g, this discussion is not reflected in the minutes of that meeting. The Board claims the 
discussion was omitted in error and contends that the minutes of the meeting held on March 2 
detail the discussion and votes taken regarding the complaint. We have reviewed both the 
February 9 and March 2 meeting minutes and do not find any reference to a discussion of the 
Open Meeting Law complaint in either set of minutes. Nevertheless, in the absence of evidence 
to the contrary we credit the Board’s version of events and find that the Board discussed the 
complaint during the February 9 meeting. Though we accept that the Board discussed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint before responding, we find that the minutes of the February 9 meeting 
are inaccurate where they do not mention or describe the discussion of the complaint filed on 
February 9. As such, we order the Board to amend the minutes of the February 9 meeting to 
accurately reflect the discussion that occurred on this topic and to certify to this office within 
thirty (30) days of the date of this letter that it has done so. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). We also 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
5 Although the Board permissibly discussed the unanticipated topic without adding it to the meeting notice, our 
recommended practice is to amend the meeting notice, if time permits, to add any additional topics that arise during 
the 48 hours before the meeting takes place, so that members of the public a re given advance notice of the items to 
be discussed. See OML 2020-122. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
order the Board to amend the minutes of the March 2 meeting if the Board discussed the 
complaint during that meeting as well. 
 
 The complaint further alleges that the Board did not mail or email the February 17 
response to the complainant. The Open Meeting Law requires that the public body send to the 
complainant a response and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken within 14 business days, unless an extension is granted.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Board contends that a letter was sent in the mail 
but was returned by the post office and a new letter was mailed thereafter. This Office received a 
copy of the Board’s response on or about February 23; therefore, we credit the Board’s statement 
that it mailed a response on February 17, which was 6 business days after the complaint was 
received. As such, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the February 17 response letter did not address the 
allegations raised in the February 9 complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public 
body “send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.” 940 
CMR 29.05(5). Since the Board responded, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
not incl
uding sufficient specificity in the notices for the February 9 and March 2 meetings 
regarding the dates of the meeting minutes it planned to approve. We order the Board to amend 
the minutes of the February 9 meeting to accurately reflect the discussion that occurred with 
respect to the Open Meeting Law complaint and to certify to this office within thirty (30) days of 
the date of this letter that it has done so. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). We further order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution the Board that a 
similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now co
nsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
        
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Bethany Salah, Legal Intern 
 
cc:
 Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
  Dartmouth Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@town.dartmouth.ma.us 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 