===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
February 18, 2022 
OML 2022 – 28 
VIA EMAIL 
Paul DeRensis, Esq. 
Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. 
260 Franklin Street, Suite 700 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney DeRensis: 
This office received two complaints from Barbara Gaynor on October 6, 2021, alleging 
that the Halifax Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on July 28, and you responded on
behalf of the Board by letter dated August 17.1 In her complaints, Ms. Gaynor alleges that the
Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding the appointments of a new town counsel
and building inspector.
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed video of the 
Board’s June 1, June 29 and July 23 meetings and meeting minutes of the Board’s June 23, 25 
and 29, and July 20 and 23 meetings. We also communicated by email with Ms. Gaynor in 
December 2021 and with Attorney Kawamoto of Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. in January and 
February of 2022.  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members 
of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from one public body 
member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other 
members respond. See OML 2020-136.2 Individual public officials not serving as members of 
public bodies are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-3.  
 Here, Ms. Gaynor alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting based on the 
fact that the Board voted, with very little discussion, to appoint a new town counsel at a June 29 
meeting. The Board has three members; thus, two members constitute a quorum. At a June 25 
meeting, the Board interviewed four candidates for the position of town counsel, including the 
prior town counsel. Board members questioned the four candidates extensively. The Board 
deferred voting on the appointment until the next meeting, June 29. At that meeting, Member 
Troy Garron moved to reappoint the prior town counsel. There was no second to the motion, and 
as a result, the motion failed. Member Ashley DiSesa then moved to appoint the firm of Brooks 
& DeRensis, P.C., which was seconded by Member Gordon Andrews. The motion passed 2-1, 
with Member Garron voting against the appointment.  
 We have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive discussion 
among public body members or the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to 
support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 
2021-42; OML 2020-7. The Board explains that Members DiSesa and Andrews reached 
agreement regarding the appointment of town counsel during the June 29 meeting without prior 
discussion. In reviewing the video of the June 29 meeting, we find no suggestion that a quorum 
of the Board had discussed the appointment of town counsel outside of a posted meeting, i.e., 
since the meeting held four days earlier when the candidates were interviewed. Absent evidence 
to the contrary, we credit the Board's explanation of the facts. See OML 2021-178; OML 2020-
94. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in this respect.  
 Similarly, we find no evidence of deliberation outside of a meeting with respect to the 
appointment of the building inspector. The position of Halifax building inspector is appointed by 
the Board for a three-year term. Member Andrews recused himself from the building inspector 
appointment process, and on June 1 Member DiSesa declined to reappoint the then-building 
inspector, Robert Piccirilli. As a result, the Board interviewed multiple candidates for the 
building inspector position during a June 23 meeting. On June 22, Mr. Picarrelli filed a federal 
civil rights lawsuit seeking reappointment. Although the Board discussed this litigation in 
executive session on July 20 and July 23, the Board did not discuss the appointment of the new 
building inspector until a July 23 meeting. During the Board’s July 23 meeting, Member Garron 
stated that he felt very strongly that Mr. Piccirilli should be reappointed for building inspector. 
However, since Member DiSesa had already declined to reappoint Mr. Piccirilli during the June 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
1 meeting, Member Garron instead seconded Member DiSesa’s motion to appoint James Perry as 
the building inspector. The Board explains in its response that because of the pending lawsuit 
against the town and the individual Board members, the Board avoided a detailed discussion 
regarding the building inspector decision. We are satisfied with the Board’s explanation, and find 
no other indication that the Board discussed the appointment of the building inspector outside of 
a posted meeting. 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Barbara Gaynor (via e-mail:  
 Halifax Board of Selectmen c/o Selectmen Assistant Pamela McSherry 
  (via e-mail:  
 Noemi Kawamoto, Esq., Brooks & DeRensis, P.C.  
 (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
