===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 77 
Margaret T. Downey 
Clerk, Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
Superior Court House 
P.O. Box 427 
Barnstable, MA 02630 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Downey: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Mr. Eric Bibler, dated July 
25, 2012, alleging that the Executive Committee of the Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, 
Inc. ("CVEC") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges 
that the Executive Committee failed to include in the minutes for its February 10, 2011 meeting a 
summary of the discussion of a particular topic, and alternatively, that the Executive Committee 
may have held an illegal meeting to approve a letter to the Cape Cod Commission prior to its 
submission. The complaint was filed with the Executive Committee on or about May 18, 2012. 
The Executive Committee responded by letter dated July 25, 2012.1  
Following our review, we find that the Executive Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law because the Executive Committee did not discuss the letter that was presented to 
the Cape Cod Commission prior to the letter's submission on February 17, 2011. Therefore, we 
find that the minutes of the February 10, 2011 meeting are accurate, and we find no evidence that 
the Executive Committee held an illegal meeting to approve the letter. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the May 18, 2012 complaint filed with the 
We remind the CVEC of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days of 
receipt. See  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
C) 
===PAGE 2===
Executive Committee; the Executive Committee's July 25, 2012 response; and the July 25, 2012 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the minutes of the Executive 
Committee's February 10, 2011 meeting; a February 17, 2011 letter signed by CVEC President 
Charles McLaughlin and addressed to the Cape Cod Commission; and we interviewed Executive 
Committee Counsel Jeffrey Bernstein by telephone on December 18, 2012. 
FACTS 
The Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative, Inc., was formed out of a strategic planning 
process commissioned and undertaken by the Cape Light Compact (the "CLC"). The CVEC was 
organized in 2007 with three members: CLC, Barnstable County, and the Town of Barnstable. 
Currently, the CVEC has 19 members consisting of 16 towns, Barnstable and Dukes County, and 
the CLC. The CVEC Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
Notice was posted for a February 10, 2011 joint meeting of the CVEC's Photovoltaic 
Selection Committee and Executive Committee. The notice listed four agenda items: 
1. Open meeting 
2. Proposed Executive Session — Review of Responses to Ground Mounted PV RFP 
3. Return to Open Session 
4. Discussion on Proposed Cape Cod Commission Enabling Regulations for Wind 
Turbines 
On February 10, 2011, during the joint meeting, the members voted unanimously to 
enter into executive session "pursuant to MGLA Chapter 30A, Section 21 (a)10." According to 
the open session minutes of the meeting, no other business occurred during this meeting. 
Prior to the February 10, 2011 meeting, CVEC staff distributed to the Executive 
Committee a draft letter addressed to the Cape Cod Commission regarding its proposed enabling 
regulations for wind turbines. The Executive Committee intended to discuss the letter at the 
meeting. According to CVEC Counsel Jeffrey Bernstein, who was present during the meeting, 
the Executive Committee did not reach the topic because it ran out of time. Following the 
meeting, CVEC President Charles McLaughlin decided that, because it was a time sensitive 
issue, he would authorize submission of the letter on behalf of the Executive Committee. The 
letter was presented to the Cape Cod Commission at its February 17, 2011 meeting, and 
expresses the "Executive Committee's opposition to the proposed new mandatory DRI threshold 
for wind turbines." 
On or about May 18, 2012, this Open Meeting Law complaint was filed with the 
Executive Committee. In the July 25, 2012 response to the complaint, CVEC Clerk Margaret 
Downey2  wrote that the "CVEC Executive Committee met on February 10, 2011," and that "the 
open session meeting minutes have been compiled and are in draft form. The minutes will be 
reviewed and approved at the August 16, 2012 CVEC meeting. Once approved the minutes will 
be posted to CVEC's web site." 
2  For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The CVEC Board of Directors approved the February 10, 2011 meeting minutes at its 
July 31, 2012 meeting. However, the minutes were not posted to the CVEC website until 
November 26, 2012, due to an "administrative oversight," according to the CVEC's counsel. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Executive Committee minutes are inaccurate because the 
body allegedly discussed the proposed Cape Cod Commission's enabling regulations for wind 
turbines during its February 10, 2011 meeting, but did not include a summary of that discussion 
in the minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth . . . a summary of the 
discussions on each subject . . . the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing meeting minutes for 
compliance with the requirement to create and maintain accurate meeting minutes, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. OML 2011-55. 3  By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. Id. According to CVEC Counsel Jeffrey Bernstein, who was 
present during the meeting, the Executive Committee did not discuss the proposed letter to the 
Cape Cod Commission on that date because it ran out of time. Because there is no evidence that 
the Executive Committee discussed the wind turbine topic during the meeting, we find the 
February 10, 2011 minutes are accurate.4  
In the alternative, the complaint alleges that if the letter to the Cape Cod Commission 
was not discussed during the meeting, the Executive Committee must have discussed it outside 
of an open meeting prior to submission, because that letter states that it expresses the "Executive 
Committee's opposition to the proposed new mandatory DRI threshold for wind turbines." We 
find no evidence that the Executive Committee discussed this matter outside of a meeting, and 
credit the Executive Committee's assertion that President McLaughlin signed and submitted the 
letter on his own without the Executive Committee's formal approval. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Executive Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the 
minutes of its February 10, 2011 meeting are accurate. We find no evidence that the CVEC 
Executive Committee met outside of an open meeting to discuss and approve its February 17, 
2011 letter to the Cape Cod Commission. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. This letter does not address any other complaints that may be 
3  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
4  We note, however, that the Executive Committee failed to approve these minutes in a timely manner. Minutes of 
all open sessions must be "created and approved in a timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Although the Open 
Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting, whenever possible. OML 2013-31; OML 2012-91. While the Executive Committee did create minutes of 
this meeting, it took 17 months to approve them, thus approval was not timely. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
pending with the Executive Committee or our office. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
A,•athan Sc arsic 
ssistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Eric Bibler, Save Our Seashore 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 