===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 13, 2012 
OML 2012 - 11 
Bruce P. Gilmore, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Chatham 
99 Willow St. 
Yarmouthport, MA 024675 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Gilmore: 
This office received three complaints from Tim Wood, Editor of The Cape Cod 
Chronicle, on or about August 8, 2011, alleging that the Chatham Town Manager Search 
Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about May 9, 2011 and May 12, 2011, 
and the Committee responded to the original complaints by letter dated June 1, 2011. In his 
complaints, Mr. Wood alleges that the Committee improperly interviewed candidates who had 
already passed a preliminary screening in executive session during its April 25, May 11 and May 
12, 2011 meetings.1  
We reviewed the May 9 and May 12, 2011 complaints; the August 8, 2011 complaint 
filed with our office; the Committee's June 1, 2011 response; and the meeting notices and open 
and executive session minutes from certain meetings of the Committee. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it interviewed six applicants in executive session. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
Notice of an April 11, 2011 meeting of the Committee was posted on April 1, 2011. 
Under "Purpose" it read "To consider applications for employment (Town Mgr) by a preliminary 
screening committee." The meeting was convened in open session and, after discussion and 
approval of previous meeting minutes, a motion was made and seconded to go into executive 
session under "Exception 8 (open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
' We note that none of the three complaint forms was signed or dated, as required by the Office of the Attorney 
General. 
( . : 4 
===PAGE 2===
candidates)." A roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. It does not appear that a 
statement was made about whether the Committee would return to open session after the 
executive session.2  
According to the minutes, during the executive session a consultant distributed 
information on all of the candidates who applied for the position of Town Manager, and more 
detailed information about ten candidates he felt were the strongest. The Committee reviewed 
the material and requested additional information on a candidate who was not included in the 
consultant's list of the ten strongest. The Committee reviewed each resume and then decided to 
adjourn so the members could review the resumes in more depth. It was decided they would 
reconvene on April 14, 2011 to determine who they wanted to interview. 
Notice of an April 14, 2011 meeting of the Committee was posted on April 12, 2011. 
Under "Purpose" it read "Review candidates for Town Mgr position." The meeting was 
convened in open session. A motion was made and seconded to go into executive session under 
"Exception 8 (open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified candidates)." A 
roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. It does not appear that a statement was made 
about whether the Committee would return to open session after the executive session. 
According to the minutes, during the executive session the Committee members each 
listed their picks for the top five candidates then, after discussion, narrowed their combined list 
to seven candidates who they would ask to come for interviews.3  The consultant was then added 
to the meeting by phone, and indicated he would notify those not on the list and try to schedule 
interviews with those who were selected. 
Notice of an April 25, 2011 meeting of the Committee was posted on April 19, 2011. 
Under "Purpose" it read "To interview candidates for employment (Town Mgr)." The meeting 
was convened in open session. A motion was made and seconded to go into executive session 
under "Exception 8 (open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified 
candidates)." A roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. It does not appear that a 
statement was made about whether the Committee would return to open session after the 
executive session. 
According to the executive session minutes, one candidate was interviewed during this 
meeting. The consultant noted that another candidate had withdrawn from consideration, and 
that the remaining five interviews had been scheduled for May 11 and May 12, 2011. 
Notice of a May 11, 2011 meeting of the Committee was posted on May 9, 2011. Under 
"Purpose" it read "To interview candidates for employment (Town Mgr)." The meeting was 
convened in open session. The Committee discussed "The logistics of the interviews and the 
next steps including reference and qualification reviews..." A motion was then made and 
seconded to go into executive session under "Exception 8 (open meeting will have a detrimental 
effect in obtaining qualified candidates) not to return to open session prior to adjournment." A 
2  We remind public bodies that the law requires the chair of a public body to "publicly announce whether the open 
session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). Without such an 
announcement, members of the public have no way of knowing whether or not they should stay for a continuation of 
the open session meeting. 
3  We do not list those seven individuals here, as the executive session minutes have not been released. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. According to the executive session minutes, 
two candidates were interviewed during this meeting. 
Notice of a May 12, 2011 meeting of the Committee was posted on May 9, 2011. Under 
"Purpose" it read "To interview candidates for employment (Town Mgr)." The meeting was 
convened in open session. The Committee discussed "The logistics of the interviews and the 
next steps including reference and qualification reviews..." A motion was then made and 
seconded to go into executive session under "Exception 8 (open meeting will have a detrimental 
effect in obtaining qualified candidates) not to return to open session prior to adjournment." A 
roll call vote was taken and passed unanimously. 
According to the executive session minutes, three candidates were interviewed during 
this meeting. Following the interviews, the Committee began discussions aimed at narrowing 
the list down to the three or four candidates who were strong enough to present to the Board for 
consideration. It was decided that a review of references and qualifications would be performed 
on four candidates, and the Committee would vote at its next meeting whether to recommend all 
four or just three to the Board. 
Notice of a May 24, 2011 meeting of the Committee was posted on May 18, 2011. Under 
"Purpose" it read "Consultant to provide results of background and reference checks on 4 
candidates; committee to decide on finalists for Board of Selectman interviews; approval of 
minutes, partial executive session — for minutes; discussion of open meeting law complaints in 
open session." 
The meeting was convened in open session. According to the minutes, the consultant, 
Richard Kobayashi from the Collins Center, provided a "review of the References and 
qualifications of the 4 candidates. Findings were supportive and clean." A motion was then 
made to recommend four specific candidates to the Board, and passed unanimously. The 
Committee then discussed Complainant's Open Meeting Law complaints, and a motion was 
made and passed to enter executive session to review and approve minutes from the prior 
executive sessions. 
On June 9, 2011, the four fmalist candidates were interviewed by the Board during an 
open session meeting. The interviews were also broadcast on Chatham's public access television 
station. On June 21, 2011, after an open session discussion of the merits of the various finalists, 
the Board voted to hire Jill M. Goldsmith as the new Town Manager. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law therefore requires that meetings of a public body 
be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)—(b), 21. One of the ten permissible reasons for executive session is 
"[t]o consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening 
committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining 
qualified applicants; provided; however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including 
meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have 
3 
===PAGE 4===
passed a prior preliminary screening" ("Purpose 8"). G.L. c 30A, § 21(a)(8). The Law defines 
"Preliminary Screening" as, "the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee 
or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public body a list of 
those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as consideration of 
written applications or resumes, selection of some for further consideration, and interviews for 
the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists. See Gerstein v.  
Superintendent Search Screening Committee, 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); Commonwealth v.  
Board of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. Super. 2006).4  
Nothing in the statute suggests that "preliminary screening" is limited to a one-time only review 
of an applicant's credentials. See Gerstein, at 471. Once an applicant has passed a preliminary 
screening and been referred to the full body as a finalist, however, all further consideration of the 
applicant must occur in open session. 
Complainant argues that the Committee's narrowing of the pool of applicants to the 
seven "semi-finalists" who were offered interviews constituted a "prior preliminary screening," 
therefore the interviews of these candidates should have taken place in open session. For the 
reasons stated above, we disagree, and find that process of selecting candidates for interview and 
the interviews themselves were both part of the preliminary screening process, and were 
appropriate for executive session under Purpose 8. 
Although the issue was not raised by the complainant, we note that executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, however, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies. Id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the 
minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of 
minutes is warranted, and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its 
review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive 
session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School  
Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
Executive session Purpose 8 allows a preliminary screening committee to conduct 
interviews in private where an open meeting would have a detrimental effect in obtaining 
qualified applicants. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). We have acknowledged that "the purpose for 
which a preliminary screening committee enters executive session may outlast the preliminary 
screening committee itself." $ee OML 2011-29 (finding that, although finalists were forwarded 
to Board of Selectmen and screening committee was dissolved, withholding the committee's 
executive session minutes did not violate the Open Meeting Law because search process had not 
been completed by the Board). Where, as here, the search process has concluded and a final 
candidate has accepted the position, however, this executive session purpose can no longer 
4  Although these cases interpret the now-repealed Municipal Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, §§ 23A-C, the relevant 
language in executive session Purpose 8 has not changed, and the newly added defmition of "Preliminary 
Screening" in G.L. c. 30A, § 18 does not appear to conflict with the courts' analysis. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
justify nondisclosure of meeting minutes. The Committee must therefore release the minutes and 
documents or exhibits used at the executive sessions held pursuant to Purpose 8, unless the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records law applies. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We find, however, that executive session Purpose 8 no longer justifies 
withholding the minutes from the Committee's meetings held pursuant to that provision, and we 
order the Committee to review its minutes within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter to 
determine whether these minutes can be released, and to announce that determination during an 
open meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Tim Wood 
Chatham Board of Selectmen 
5 