===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September  26, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 160 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Adam F. Kobel, Esq. 
Law Office of Robert J. Hennigan, Jr. 
RJHLaw@gmail.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kobel: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 7, 2023, alleging that 
the Auburn Board of Selectman (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around July 25, 2023.1  The 
complaint alleges that the Board failed to list on the notice for its July 10 meeting the names of 
candidates the Board planned to interview for possible appointment to the Housing Authority.  
On August 7, you responded to Mr. Higgins by requesting additional information that the Board 
believed it needed to resolve the complaint.  That same day, Mr. Higgins forwarded the 
complaint to our office for further review, stating “I find that the Attorney for the Auburn Board 
of Selectmen does not comprehend the requirements of the open meeting law, (perhaps he needs 
to enroll in Hooked on Phonics), therefore I find his response as non-responsive and request 
further review by the Division of open government.” 
After reviewing the complaint, the Board’s August 7 correspondence to the complainant, 
and the complainant’s request for review of the complaint, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to list on the notice for its July 10 meeting the names of candidates 
it planned to interview during the meeting.  We do not find that the Board’s attorney requires a 
course in reading comprehension, and instead suggest that the complainant did not proceed in 
good faith in filing the complaint with our office for review.   
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We have consistently 
stated that to comply with the specificity requirement, the names of interviewees and applicants 
for appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be listed on a 
meeting notice.  See, e.g., OML 2022-219; OML 2020-80; OML 2019-24; OML 2018-94; OML 
2016-150; OML 2013-163; OML 2011-23.2  There is no suggestion that the Board did not know 
the names of the candidates it intended to interview during its July 10 meeting at least 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting; therefore, the names of the candidates should have been included on 
the meeting notice.  
 Next, we address the Board’s August 7 response to the complainant.  The Open Meeting 
Law, in c
onjunction with the Attorney General’s Regulations, requires that, unless an extension 
has been granted by the Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body must also 
send the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action 
taken.  Id.  Once at least 30 days have passed after the complaint was filed with the public body, 
and if the complainant is unsatisfied with the public body’s resolution of the complaint, the 
complainant may file the complaint with the Attorney General.  940 CMR 29.05(7).   
Additionally, the R
 egulations provide: 
If the public body needs additional information to resolve the complaint, then the 
chair may request it from the complainant within seven business days of receiving 
the complaint. The complainant shall respond within ten business days after 
receiving the request. The public body will then have an additional ten business 
days after receiving the complainant’s response to review the complaint and take 
any remedial action pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
940 CMR 29.05(6).   
Here, the Board, through its attorney, responded to the complainant on August 7 by 
requesting additional information to resolve the complaint.  Specifically, the Board requested 
from the complainant support or a resource for the assertion that the Board was required to list 
on the meeting notice the names of the candidates to be interviewed.  Instead of responding to 
the Board or engaging in a productive dialogue, the complainant promptly forwarded the 
complaint and response letter to our office for review—before 30 days had passed after the 
complaint was filed with the public body—and characterized the Board’s letter as non-
responsive and the attorney in need of reading training.  In this instance, the Board’s request for 
additional information was made two business days past the seven-business-day period provided 
in the Regulation; however, in general, a request to a complainant for additional information is 
entirely appropriate and in fact encouraged as it may contribute to a mutually agreeable 
resolution of the complaint.  Had the complainant simply responded to the Board’s question by 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
providing the requested sources—which the complainant surely had available as several of our 
determinations explaining the requirement stemmed from prior complaints from the 
complainant—the Board may well have acknowledged its error and taken corrective action, 
without necessitating this office’s involvement.     
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list on the notice for its July 10 meeting the names of candidates it planned to interview 
during the meeting.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in 
the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.   
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 Edward J. Kazanovich, Town Manager (via email: ekazanovich@town.auburn.ma.us) 
 Auburn Town Clerk (via email: dgremo@town.auburn.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
