===PAGE 1===
   
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
   
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 27, 2011 
OML 2011 - 53 
William F Ketcham, Town Administrator 
Town of Wrentham 
Town Hall, Room 213 
79 South St 
Wrentham, MA 02093 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Ketcham: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Robert G. Leclair on March 3, 2011 
alleging that the Wrentham Board of Selectmen (the "Board"), specifically Chairman 
Stephen J. Langley, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint alleges that the Board was "blindsided without prior notice of the executive 
session" convened on November 16, 2010, and committed a series of unlawful and 
inappropriate actions in response to Mr. Leclair's Open Meeting Law complaint. Mr. 
Leclair filed his original complaint with the Board on December 13, 2010. Your January 
5, 2011 response to the original complaint, on behalf of the Board, was received by this 
office on January 10, 2011. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. While the Board 
failed to list a topic that was discussed during its November 16, 2010 executive session in 
the notice for that meeting, we find that Chairman Langley could not have reasonably 
anticipated that the topic would be discussed at the time that the meeting notice and 
agenda were posted. We also find that the Board entered executive session for a lawful 
purpose. Finally, we find that the Board's response to Mr. Leclair's complaint did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. A complainant is not entitled to an executive session to 
discuss his complaint, and Chairman Langley did not engage in unlawful deliberation in 
response to the complaint. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint filed with the 
Board on December 13, 2010; Chairman Langley's undated letter to you in response to 
the complaint; your January 5, 2011 response to the complaint on behalf of the Board; 
and the complaint filed with this office on March 3, 2011. We also reviewed the Board's 
November 16, 2010 meeting notice and agenda; the Board's November 16, 2010 open 
and executive session minutes; and the Board's January 4, 2011 open session minutes. 
Finally, we reviewed a November 5, 2010 letter from Chairman Langley to a Town 
police officer; a November 10, 2010 e-mail from Attorney Sally Adams to 
Administrative Assistant Cindy Thompson; a November 15, 2010 e-mail from Ms. 
Thompson to the Chief of Police; a November 16, 2010 letter from the police officer to 
the Board; and a December 22, 2010 interoffice memo from you to the Board regarding 
Mr. Leclair's complaint. 
FACTS 
On November 5, 2010, Board Chairman Stephen J. Langley sent a letter to a 
Town police officer regarding the officer's medical expenses, explaining that the Board 
would consider reimbursement of those expenses, pursuant to state law. Following that 
letter, Attorney Sally Adams sent an e-mail to the Board's Administrative Assistant, 
Cindy Thompson, on November 10, 2010, detailing the Board's duties with regard to the 
medical reimbursement. 
According to your December 22, 2010 interoffice memorandum to the Board, Ms. 
Thompson was out of the office from November 11, 2010 through November 14, 2010. 
When Ms. Thompson returned on Monday, November 15, 2010, she sent an e-mail to the 
Chief of Police at 4:07 p.m., carbon copying Chairman Langley, stating that "[t]he Board 
needs to discuss [the officer's] reasonable medical expense reimbursement. This should 
be done in Executive Session under MGL 30A, Section 21 #1." The Town Clerk's 
Office had already received and posted a meeting notice and agenda on Friday, 
November 12, 2010 for the Board's Tuesday, November 16, 2010 meeting. The agenda 
listed "Contract Negotiation" as the only topic to be discussed in Executive Session. 
The Board's November 16, 2010 open session minutes state that, as the last order 
of business, "[Board Member Robert] Cohen made a motion to enter Executive Session 
under MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21-1 to discuss the physical condition of an 
individual... Mr. Cohen's motion included entering Executive Session under MGL 
Chapter 30A, Section 21-2 to conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
The Board's executive session minutes confirm that the Board entered executive session 
and discussed both the medical reimbursement issue and a proposed contract for the new 
Town Administrator. The minutes note that Selectman Joseph Botaish "recused himself 
from the discussion" of medical reimbursement. 
In response to the Board's actions during the executive session, Selectman and 
complainant Robert G. Leclair filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the Board on 
December 13, 2010. At some point after the filing, Chairman Langley corresponded with 
2 
===PAGE 3===
you about Mr. Leclair's complaint. In his undated letter to you, Chairman Langley 
responded to the various allegations included in Mr. Leclair's original complaint. 
The Board chose to discuss the complaint in open session at its January 4, 2011 
meeting. According to the open session minutes, "the Board discussed the Open Meeting 
Law Complaint and the issues pertaining to it." After reviewing the Open Meeting Law 
Guide and reading the complaint, "the Board voted 2-1 that the complaint filed by Mr. 
Leclair does support a violation of the Open Meeting Law." 
Before conclusion of debate, Mr. Leclair stated that "[w]hen a formal complaint 
was filed previously by Mr. McFeeley, [Chairman] Langley offered Mr. McFeeley the 
right to conduct the discussion in Open or Closed Session. [Mr. Leclair] stated that he 
was not given the option." The open session minutes do not indicate whether the Board 
responded to this particular concern. In an effort to address the issues raised bythe 
complaint, "the Board agreed to review and reorganize using their Policies and 
Procedures as guidelines." 
DISCUSSION 
Mr. Leclair alleges several violations of the Open Meeting Law stemming from 
the Board's meetings on November 16, 2010 and January 4, 2011. First, Mr. Leclair 
alleges that Chairman Langley did not provide proper notice of the medical 
reimbursement topic discussed at the Board's November 16, 2010 executive session. 
Second, the complainant alleges that the Board's cited purpose for entering executive 
session was not a valid one. Third, the complainant alleges that the Board's discussion of 
his Open Meeting Law complaint at the January 4, 2011 open session should have taken 
place in executive session. Finally, the complainant alleges that Chairman Langley 
engaged in unlawful deliberation by personally responding to the allegations in an e-mail 
to the Town Administrator. We address these issues in turn. 
I. 	 Notice of the Medical Reimbursement Executive Session Topic Was 
Proper Because the Board Chairman Did Not Reasonably Anticipate  
Discussion of the Topic 48 Hours Prior to the Meeting 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "a public body shall post notice of every 
meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall 
contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) (emphasis 
added). Furthermore, the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations require that 
meeting notices list topics with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. In general, this level of 
detail must be included for both open session and executive session topics. 
Here, the Board's November 16, 2010 meeting notice was properly posted on 
Friday, November 12, 2010. The Open Meeting Law limits a public body's deliberations 
3 
===PAGE 4===
at a meeting to those topics that were listed in the posted meeting notice. However, a 
public body may consider a topic not listed in the meeting notice if the topic arises fewer 
than 48 hours prior to the meeting and the chair could not have reasonably anticipated it 
when the meeting notice was posted. See Attorney General's OML FAQ: Meeting 
Notices at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
Although Chairman Langley was aware of the medical reimbursement issue long 
before the Board's November 16, 2010 meeting, we find that he could not have 
reasonably anticipated that the topic would require discussion at the November 16, 2010 
meeting until he received Ms. Thompson's email on November 15, 2010. According to 
your December 22, 2010 interoffice memorandum to the Board, Ms. Thompson was out 
of the office from Thursday, November 11, 2010 through Sunday, November 14, 2010. 
Therefore, Monday, November 15, 2010 was the first time that Ms. Thompson had the 
opportunity to consider the November 10, 2010 e-mail from Attorney Adams and inform 
Chairman Langley that the Board needed to set the reimbursement rate as soon as 
possible. At that point, Chairman Langley reasonably anticipated discussion of the topic, 
but the Board's meeting was fewer than 48 hours away and the meeting notice and 
agenda had already been posted. 
Chairman Langley should have updated the meeting notice as soon as he 
anticipated the topic, and informed his fellow Board members of his intent to discuss the 
topic and the related materials in executive session. Although we do not find that the 
Board's discussion of a medical reimbursement rate violated the Open Meeting Law, we 
encourage the Board to postpone discussion of similar last minute topics in the future. 
When reasonable, the Board should wait to discuss items not included in the meeting 
notice until those topics can be listed in a meeting notice 48 hours prior to the meeting, 
with enough specificity to advise the public and Board members of the issues to be 
discussed during the meeting. We note that the Board properly announced the additional 
topic in open session before entering executive session. 
The Board Cited a Valid Purpose for Entering Executive Session to 
Discuss the Medical Reimbursement Topic  
According to the Board's November 16, 2010 open session minutes, the Board 
voted to approve "a motion to enter Executive Session under MGL Chapter 30A, Section 
21-1 to discuss the physical condition of an individual." A public body may enter 
executive session under Purpose 1 to "discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Executive session Purpose 1 is available to public bodies to protect an 
individual's privacy. Here, the Board's purpose for entering executive session was to 
determine the reasonable medical reimbursement rate for a specific individual. The 
Board voted to enter executive session under Purpose 1 and followed the procedural 
requirements for doing so. Although the complainant alleges in his original complaint 
that "[t]he focus of the [executive session] was primarily on money, insurance payment, 
and as one put it 'protecting the taxpayer's interest,' the executive session minutes 
confirm that the Board could not discuss the allocation of funds without first considering 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the confidential records of the individual in question. Such deliberation was inextricably 
linked to the privacy of the individual. Therefore, we find that the Board's use of 
Purpose 1 was valid. 
We note that the Board also could have cited Executive Session Purpose 7 to 
discuss the individual's medical reimbursement. Purpose 7 allows a public body "[t]o 
comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-
aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). If a public body enters executive session 
under Purpose 7, it must cite the specific general or special law, or federal grant-in-aid 
requirement, that requires confidentiality or requires the public body to meet behind 
closed doors. See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch.Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
569 (2009) (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session 
requires the enumeration of the enabling law). In this case, the Board could have cited 
the Right of Privacy, G.L. c. 214, § 1B, or the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10, with 
Purpose 7 to discuss the medical reimbursement topic in executive session. 
III. The Complainant Was Not Entitled to an Executive Session to Discuss the 
Open Meeting Law Complaint  
The Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to enter executive session 
for any reason. The Board's January 4, 2011 open session minutes state that "the Board 
discussed [Mr. Leclair's complaint] and the issues pertaining to it" in open session. Mr. 
Leclair's complaint alleges that "[t]he discussions should have taken place in executive 
session because the confidential documents could be viewed only but could not be 
addressed or discussed in an open session." 
We find that the Board was under no obligation to hear the complaint in executive 
session. The Open Meeting Law states that "[a] public body may meet in executive 
session" for certain purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) (emphasis added). The Board has 
sole discretion to determine what matters will be heard in executive session. Despite the 
complainant's assertion at the January 4, 2011 meeting that the Board had heard previous 
complaints in executive session, past practice does not dictate or overturn the Board's 
discretion in this area of the law. 
IV. The Board Chairman Did Not Engage in Unlawful Deliberation with the  
Town Administrator in Responding to the Open Meeting Law Complaint 
The Open Meeting Law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. § 18 (emphasis added). Mr. 
Leclair's complaint alleges that, "[p]rior to the scheduled meeting [on January 4, 2011] to 
discuss the complaint, Mr. Langley circulated his personal response to the complaint in 
an email to the new town administrator." 
We find that Chairman Langley's communication did not constitute an unlawful 
deliberation. The undated letter that you provided to this office appears to be addressed 
5 
===PAGE 6===
to you as the sole recipient. It does not appear to have been distributed to any other 
Board members, and the complaint does not allege otherwise. Because Chairman 
Langley's letter was not sent to a quorum of the Board, it does not constitute a 
deliberation. 
CONCLUSION 
Although Chairman Langley should have notified Board members of the 
additional topic as soon as he learned it would be discussed, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law because Chairman Langley did not reasonably 
anticipate discussion of the medical reimbursement topic at the time the meeting notice 
and agenda were posted. We also find that the Board entered executive session for a 
lawful purpose to discuss the topic. Finally, we find that the Board's response to Mr. 
Leclair's complaint did not violate the Open Meeting Law. Mr. Leclair was not entitled 
to an executive session to discuss his complaint, and Chairman Langley did not engage in 
unlawful deliberation with you when formulating a response to the complaint. 
When topics arise suddenly, the best course of action is to delay consideration 
until proper notice has been posted so that all interested parties can learn that the topic 
will be discussed. This practice also allows public body members to adequately prepare 
for meetings. We acknowledge and are encouraged by the Board's vote to "review [the 
Board's] Policies and Procedures, to safeguard against repeat occurrences." 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerely, 
c 
)6nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Robert G. Leclair 
6 