===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2022 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Paul Ferland 
Administrator of Community Utilities 
Fall River Department of Community Utilities 
 
 
 
 RE:  Reco
nsideration of OML 2022 – 65 
 
Dear Mr. Ferland: 
Our office received your April 20, 2022, letter in which you request reconsideration of 
our March 30, 2022, determination, OML 2022-65, resolving a complaint filed by Collin Dias 
against the Fall River Watuppa Water Board (the “Board”). In your letter, you request that the 
Division of Open Government (the “Division”) reconsider the determination, which 
concerned whether the Board posted a sufficiently detailed meeting notice for an October 14, 
2021, meeting. 
 
There is no statutory right to reconsideration by the Office of the Attorney General of 
an Open Meeting Law determination or declination. While the Division generally will not 
reconsider past determinations, the Division may grant reconsideration where the request 
identifies a clerical or mechanical error in the determination or a significant legal or factual 
issue that the Division may have overlooked or misapprehended in resolving the complaint.   
 
You have informed us that the determination incorrectly stated that the Board 
approved a large package of regulations for hunters to access the Wattuppa Reservation, when 
in fact the Board had previously approved those regulation and only approved a pilot program 
for gate access for hunters at the October 14, 2021, meeting. Accordingly, we grant your 
request for reconsideration and reissue the determination to correct factual errors in our March 
30, 2022, determination letter. However, these corrections do not alter our conclusion that the 
Board’s meeting notice was insufficiently specific regarding the item “Gate Access.”  
 
       

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
      Sincerely, 
 
      Sarah Monahan   
       Assistant Attorney General 
 Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
 Fall River Watuppa Water Board (vi a e-mail:  
 

===PAGE 3===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 7, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 65 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Paul Ferland 
Administrator of Community Utilities 
Fall River Department of Community Utilities 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Ferland: 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on December 9, 2021, alleging that the 
Fall River Watuppa Water Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 10, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 29.1 In his complaint, Mr. Dias 
alleges that the Board 1) failed to provide public access instructions for an October 14 meeting 
until less than 24 hours before the meeting, and 2) posted a meeting notice that was insufficiently 
specific.2  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to include public access information for a remote October 14 meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance, and failing to identify on the notice one topic with sufficient specificity. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the two notices, both original 
and revised, and a video recording of the Board’s October 14 meeting.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board’s notice for an October 14 meeting lacked public access instructions until the 
notice was revised the day prior to the meeting.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that, during a roll call vote, two members voted “here” instead of “yes” or “no.” We 
note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we 
decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 4===
2 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable 
format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. 
 Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Open 
Meeting Law allowed members of a public body to participate in a meeting remotely, provided 
that a quorum of members of the public body, including the Chair, was physically present at the 
meeting location. Governor Baker’s March 12, 2020, Executive Order suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law, and then a June 16, 2021, Act Relative to Extending 
Certain Covid-19 Provisions Adopted During the State of Emergency, suspended the 
requirement that a quorum of public body members be present at a physical meeting location, 
and also allowed public bodies to provide “adequate, alternative means” of public access to the 
deliberations of the public body rather than providing the public with in-person access to a 
meeting. “Adequate, alternative means” may include, without limitation, providing public access 
through telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other 
technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body in real 
time. If access to a meeting of a public body is to be provided through “adequate, alternative 
means,” the meeting notice must include clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. 
 Here, the Board concedes that the original notice for the October 14 meeting, which was 
posted on October 8, did not include access information for the public to view the meeting, 
merely stating “Virtual Zoom Meeting.” The notice was amended to include this access 
information on October 13 at 2:52 p.m., less than 24 hours prior to the meeting, which took place 
at 2 p.m. on October 14. The Open Meeting Law requires that notices be posted at least 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting and include the place of the meeting, including remote access 
instructions for remote meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-102. 3, 4 Therefore, we find 
that the Board’s notice for the October 14 meeting did not meet the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law, as the notice did not contain the “place of the meeting” 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting.  
2. The Board’s notice for an October 14 meeting was insufficiently specific.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting and 
include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Although the Law does not require public bodies to list all 
tangential topics related to a discussion, it requires public bodies to identify the discussion topic 
with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 A public body is permitted to change its meeting location, even less than 48 hours prior to a meeting, but it must 
make reasonable efforts to notify the public of the new location, for example by posting an amended meeting notice 
and a sign at the original meeting location. See OML 2020-102; OML 2020-95. 
===PAGE 5===
3 
 
meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-156; OML 2015-73; OML 
2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. 
 The notice for the Board’s October 14 meeting included the topic “Rules and 
Regulations” with a sub-item “Gate Access at Reservation.” During its discussion of this topic, 
the Board discussed a proposal to offer keys to a limited number of hunters to open certain gates 
at the Reservation. The topic of gate access for hunters was clearly anticipated by the Chair, as 
all members received copies of the proposed regulations as part of the meeting packet. We find 
that the notice did not clearly advise the public what would be discussed at the Board’s meeting 
as the notice did not specify that the gate access issue pertained specifically to expanded access 
for hunting purposes. See OML 2019-89 (finding that a notice that included the topics “Host 
Agreement,” “Land Development” and “Non-Opposition letter,” without specifying that the 
discussion pertained to a cannabis cultivation facility, was insufficiently specific); OML 2021-
202 (meeting notice did not sufficiently alert members of the public that the Board would be 
discussing a large used vehicle processing facility—a topic that no doubt was the subject of 
significant public interest—where meeting notice merely contained developer’s nickname for the 
project, which was not generally understood by the public). The Board’s notice was 
insufficiently specific to advise the public that the Board was contemplating granting gate access 
to the Reservation specifically to hunters. Therefore, we find that the Board’s October 14 
meeting notice was insufficiently specific regarding the gate access item.  
 On the other hand, we find no violation with respect to notice item four, “other potential 
matters,” as the Board discussed a topic under this item was not anticipated by the Chair. A 
public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting even without having included it 
on a meeting notice, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a 
matter of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest to the 
public in order to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting if the topic 
can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131. Here, a Board member other than the 
Chair asked a question about the status of repairs to inspection towers, gatehouses and a 
screenhouse. A staff member answered the question. The Board asserts in its response that this 
topic was not anticipated by the chair, which accords with the video recording of the October 14 
meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s account of the facts. See 
OML 2020-172; OML 2019-73. Therefore, we find no violation with respect to the discussion of 
repairs, as the topic was not anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include public access information for a remote October 14 meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance, and failing to identify on the notice one topic to be discussed at the October 14 meeting 
with sufficient specificity. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 On the facts presented, we decline to find that this violation was intentional. However, 
we note the Board was found in violation of the Open Meeting Law for failure to post a 
sufficiently specific meeting notice one year earlier, and caution the Board that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law and may result in a recommendation of a civil penalty.  
===PAGE 6===
4 
 
 To remedy the defects in the notice for the Board’s October 14 meeting, we order the 
Board, within 30 days of receipt of this determination, to again hold a discussion of all the 
topics the Board discussed during the October 14 meeting, including re-voting any votes taken, 
at a properly posted future meeting, if it has not done so already.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
 Fall River Watuppa Water Board (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
