===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 150 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kimberly Roche, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices, P.C. 
kimberly@duperelawoffices.info  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Roche: 
 
On May 8, 2023,
1 this office received two complaints from David Boyer, filed on behalf 
of the Hancock Board of Selectmen, of which Mr. Boyer is a member. The complaints allege that 
the Hancock School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about April 26, and you 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letters dated May 4. The first complaint alleges that 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law during its March 7 meeting by discussing and voting 
on matters that were not sufficiently noticed. The second complaint alleges that the Committee 
held a meeting on April 4 without posting notice.
2 
 
Following our review, we decline to review the first complaint as it was not timely filed 
with the Committee. With respect to the second complaint, we find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, and the request for further review. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Additional allegations were raised in the request for further review. We decline to review any allegations raised in 
the request for further review as they were not raised in a formal complaint filed with the Committee . See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-76; OML 2012-92. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
To begin, we decline to review the first complaint as it was not timely filed with the 
Committee. Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation 
could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
within 30 days of the date that the alleged violation should reasonably have been discovered. 940 
CMR 29.05(4). When an alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation 
is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.
3  
 
The first complaint concerns the Committee’s March 7 meeting. Because the meeting 
was held in open session, any allegations regarding the sufficiency of the notice for the meeting 
or the discussions held at the meeting were reasonably discoverable on March 7 and any 
complaint about the meeting should have been filed on or before April 6. Here, the complaint 
was untimely where it was filed with the Committee on April 26,
4 and we therefore decline to 
review the complaint. See OML Declination 2-1-17 (West Bridgewater Water Commission); 
OML Declination 11-21-16 (Middleton Planning Board); OML Declination 1215-14 (Ware 
Conservation Board). 
 
Although we decline to review the allegations raised in the first complaint, we take this 
opportunit
y to remind the Committee that public bodies must list topics for discussion on their 
meeting notices with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). Generic placeholder topics are insufficient to 
comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-121. Additionally, the 
list of topics must include those topics that the chair and any other individual responsible for 
creating the meeting notice anticipate will be discussed at the meeting. See OML 2020-152 
(finding that where the chair of the school committee and the superintendent shared 
responsibility for creating the meeting notice, the notice should have included a topic the 
superintendent anticipated raising, even though the chair was unaware of the topics). 
 
Next, the second complaint alleges that the Committee did not properly post notice for a 
mee
ting held on April 4. The Committee asserts that it posted notice for the April 4 meeting at 
the Hancock Elementary School but acknowledges that it did not post notice to the Town’s 
official notice posting location. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c) (“notice shall be filed with the 
municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on 
the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.”). Therefore, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly post notice for its April 4 
meeting.  
 
We orde
r the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution the Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The first complaint is dated April 19. The Committee asserts that it received the complaint on April 26. Even if 
received on April 19, the complaint would still be untimely.  
===PAGE 3===
any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel free
to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Alex Kastrinakis, Chair, Hancock School Committee (via email:
Rebecca Phillips, Superintendent (via email: rphillips@hancockschool.org)
Linda Burdick, Town Clerk (via email: HANTCLB1@aol.com)
David Boyer, Hancock Board of Selectmen (via email: bos@town.hancock.ma.us)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.