===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 27, 2020 
OML 2020-31
Carolyn Murray, Esq.
K.P. Law LLC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Murray:
This office received two complaints from Jude Ahem, on December 16, 2019, alleging 
that the Wellfleet Planning Board and the Wellfleet Select Board (the “Boards”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Boards 
on October 17 and October 25, and you responded on behalf of the Boards by letters dated 
November 5 and November 12.1 Although the complaints contain broad allegations of general 
misconduct, we can only address specifically alleged Open Meeting Law violations.2 3 4 We 
construe the complaints as alleging that (1) the Planning Board discussed a topic at its September 
13 meeting that was not included on its meeting notice, and (2) the notice for the Select Board’s 
September 24 meeting was insufficiently detailed.3,4
Following our review, we find that the Select Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice for its September 24 meeting. We do not find 
that the Planning Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the complaints, Board’s responses and the requests for further review.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
2 The complainant requests that the Planning Board video record its meetings, or until such time as all meetings are 
video recorded, retain all audio recordings of its meetings according to the Municipal Records Retention Schedule. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies record their meetings, nor does it address retention of 
audio recordings of meeting. The complainant also alleges the Select Board “defamed my character.” We note that, 
even if true, these allegations would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to 
review them. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).
3 Ms. Ahem also appears to allege that she was entitled to individual notice that her email would be discussed at the 
Select Board’s meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not require personal notice to an individual whose actions will 
be discussed by a public body in open session. See OML 2014-57; OML 2013-24.
4 We decline to review additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not included in the 
original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public bodies and will 
address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML 
Declination 8-25-2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On September 10, Ms. Ahern wrote an email to the 
Wellfleet Select Board’s general email account, with the subject line, “Gerry Parent.” Gerry 
Parent is the Chair of the Wellfleet Planning Board, which is a seven-member public body. Chair 
Parent was at the time seeking appointment by the Wellfleet Select Board as Wellfleet’s 
representative to the Cape Cod Commission. In its entirety, the email read:
You must be joking. There is NO WAY Gerry Parent is going to represent the Town 
of Wellfleet in anything beyond its borders. If this ridiculous idea is pushed 
forward, I will start my assault on the Planning Board. Understood?
On September 12 at 9:00 a.m., the Planning Board posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on September 18 at 7:00 p.m. During the afternoon of September 13, Chair Parent received from 
the town administrator a copy of Ms. Ahern’s email. After receiving the copy of the email, Chair 
Parent asked the town administrator to contact town counsel about the email. While still awaiting 
a response from counsel, Chair Parent brought the email to the attention of the other Planning 
Board members at the September 18 meeting, and the Planning Board discussed the matter. The 
Planning Board then voted to send a letter to the Select Board requesting that the Select Board 
appropriately address the matter.
The Select Board subsequently received the letter from the Planning Board. The Select 
Board posted notice for a September 24 meeting, which included, under “Board/Committee 
Appointments and Updates,” the topic “Discuss, deliberate and take appropriate action to 
respond to letter from the Planning Board.” The Planning Board’s letter was included as page 41 
of the September 24 meeting materials packet, which was posted online with the meeting notice. 
The meeting notice did not specify that the letter was included in the packet or where it could be 
found. The Select Board met as planned on September 24, discussed the Planning Board’s letter, 
and considered several potential responses to Ms. Ahern’s email.
DISCUSSION
I. The Planning Board’s Discussion of Ms. Ahern’s Email was Unanticipated.
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices “shall be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body 
guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair should list those topics that he or she 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2016-76; OML 2013-190; OML 2011-13.5 
Where a topic is an ongoing concern, but the Chair does not anticipate that it will be raised at a 
particular meeting, the meeting notice need not contain the topic if the Chair does not anticipate 
discussing the topic at the meeting in question. See OML 2018-159; OML 2014-100.
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. 
Nonetheless, the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best 
practice, postpone unplanned topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order to 
include them in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-70; OML 2018-119. 
This gives the public a greater opportunity to understand how public policy decisions are made, 
furthering the larger aim of the Open Meeting Law.
Here, after receiving the copy of Ms. Ahern’s email on September 13, the Planning Board 
Chair asked the town administrator to contact town counsel for advice about how to respond. We 
credit Chair Parent’s statement that he initially thought he would wait until he heard back from 
counsel before bringing up the email at a Planning Board meeting. However, when the 
September 18 meeting proceeded as scheduled and Chair Parent had not received a response 
from counsel, he decided to bring the email to the attention of the other Planning Board members 
because, according to the Board, “the threatened assault involved all of the members of the 
Planning Board, and not just the Chairman.” Because the Chair made a last-minute decision to 
raise the topic at the meeting, we find that Chair Parent did not anticipate 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting that Ms. Ahern’s email would be discussed at the Planning Board’s September 18 
meeting. See OML 2014-57. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
II. The Select Board’s September 24 Meeting Notice was Insufficiently Detailed.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently detailed when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-141; OML 2018-7. A notice need not include every 
detail about an anticipated discussion; rather, the law requires that a notice list topics with 
“sufficient specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the meeting and observe 
the discussion regarding that topic. See 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 2018-7.
Here, the Select Board received the letter from the Planning Board and included it as a 
topic of discussion on its September 24 meeting notice. Under “Board/Committee Appointments 
and Updates,” the Select Board’s meeting notice included two items, the second of which read, 
“Discuss, deliberate and take appropriate action to respond to letter from the Planning Board.” 
Although a copy of the Planning Board’s letter was included in the online meeting packet posted 
for the meeting, the meeting notice did not give the public any specific information about the 
nature of the Planning Board’s letter or the Select Board’s anticipated discussion.
Even for public bodies that use a website as their official notice posting location and 
therefore may post supporting documentation alongside the meeting notice, meeting notices 
should include on the notice itself the level of detail that the Open Meeting Law requires. See 
OML 2020-21; see also OML 2019-24. As the Chair of the Select Board was aware of the 
substance of the Planning Board’s letter, we find that the notice should have included more detail 
about the topic to be discussed. For these reasons, we find that the Select Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice.
3

===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Select Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its September 24 meeting. We order the 
Select Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Select Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We do not find that the Planning 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Boards. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Jude Ahem
Wellfleet Select Board 
Wellfleet Planning Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
