===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 22, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 221 
VIA EMAIL  
  
John Foskett, Esq. 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Avenue, Suite 300B 
Westwood, MA 02090 
John.Foskett@VDHBoston.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Foskett:  
 
On August 9, 2024, this office received a complaint from David Matson, alleging that the 
Andover School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 10, 2024.  You 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated June 28, 2024.  The complaint alleges that 
the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee viola
 ted the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed emails between members of the Committee, with attachments, meeting minutes of 
March 7, 2019, April 4, 2019 and April 11, 2019, filings in the matter of Fusion Learning, Inc. v. 
Andover School Committee, et al., U.S. Dist. Ct., No. 1:21-cv-11059-PBS (D. Mass.) (“the 
Litigation”), including the Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint, the Second 
Amended Complaint, and Andover School Committee’s Amended Answer to Plaintiff’s Second 
Amended Complaint, and newspaper articles about the Litigation and its background.
1   
 
1 Jessica Valeriani, School Committee rejects Fusion school proposal, ANDOVER TOWNSMAN (April 18, 2019), 
https://www.andovertownsman.com/news/school-comm ittee-rejects-fusion-school-proposal/article_9f907d94-7f1f-
5a87-b134-5010f17bd7a0.html; Dave Copeland, School  Committee Broke Open Meeting Law: Lawsuit, ANDOVER 
NEWS (Jan. 26, 2023), https://andovermanews.com/school-com mittee-broke-open-meeting-law-lawsuit/; Teddy 
Tauscher, Fusion Academy Adds Two Complaints to Lawsuit Against Town, ANDOVER TOWNSMAN (Feb. 7, 
2023), https://www.andovertownsman.com/news/fusion-academy-a dds-two-complaints-to-lawsuit-against-
town/article_88b51dcc-9e68-11ed-abdb-df4d3ff7f0e6.html; Teddy Tauscher, Fus ion Academy Lawsuit 
Documents: Schools Feared Cost of Approving Fusion Academy, EAGLE TRIBUNE (May 11, 2024), 
https://www.eagletribune.com/news/local_news/documents-schools-feared-cost-of-approving-fusionacademy/ 
article_662fd0f6-0c78-11ef-845f-d7ad263b739e.html. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member body.  Therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  Fusion Academy is a corporation that owns and operates private 
schools for grades six through twelve.  Pursuant to Massachusetts statute, operation of a private 
school requires approval from the school committee in whose district the school would be 
located.  On or about May 29, 2018, Fusion Academy submitted an application to the Committee 
to operate a private school in Andover (“the Application”).  From July 2018 to March 2019, 
Andover Assistant Superintendent for Teaching and Learning Sandra Trach conducted a review 
and analysis of the Application.  At a posted meeting held on March 7, 2019,2 Assistant 
Superintendent Trach provided the Committee with information and documentation obtained in 
the review of the Application.  She informed the Committee about the process to review the 
Application, including applicable criteria and laws.3 
 
 On April 1, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 4.  The notice 
included the Application as a topic of discussion.  Also on April 1, School Superintendent 
Sheldon Berman issued a School Committee Update, which was sent to Committee members.  
The Update covered several topics, including the Application, noting that Assistant 
Superintendent Trach would be “recommending against approving Fusion Academy’s 
application.  Her detailed report covers the most significant concerns.  I support that 
recommendation.” 
 
 On April 2, at 10:37 p.m., Committee member Joel Blumstein sent an email to 
Committee member Tracey Spruce, attaching an outline of arguments against approving the 
Application (the “April 2 Outline”).  In the email, Member Blumstein wrote: “The attached lays 
out how I think Sandy’s memo should be structured.  I’m hoping that Sandy and Cat will fill in 
all the details.  Let me know what you think, both in terms of format and other areas that the 
memo should focus on or points that should be made.”  The April 2 Outline stated: “Of the 11 
criteria established by DESE for approval of a private school, I have determined, based on my 
best professional judgment, that Fusion fails to satisfy the following criteria.”  Four criteria were 
identified in the list that followed.  Specific concerns were listed under each of the identified 
criteria, such as “focus on lack of nurse” and “Focus on substance of what is offered, rather than 
student learning time.”  The April 2 Outline also stated: “In addition, despite numerous requests 
for information, I am unable to conclude that Fusion satisfies the following criteria due to the 
lack of adequate documentation:” and listed documents that Fusion purportedly failed to produce 
under several criteria in support of its application. 
 
 The next day, April 3, Member Spruce responded to Member Blumstein : “I agree with 
this structure and will [sic] all of the points you raised.  I added some additional thoughts.  Let 
me know if you want to discuss.”  She attached a revised draft of the April 2 Outline, which 
included her tracked changes.  With Member Spruce’s additions, the revised April 2 Outline was 
approximately twice the length of the original April 2 Outline Member Blumstein sent the day 
before.  In the revised draft, Member Spruce noted her agreement with specific points made in 
 
2 Hereinafter, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019 unless otherwise indicated. 
3 Minutes of the March 7 meeting note: “It is important for the Committee to review Sandy’s memorandum for a full 
account of her determination and findings.”  We have not been provided with or reviewed this memorandum. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the original April 2 Outline and also included suggestions for improvement (e.g. “Need more 
explanation of why Fusion’s curriculum isn’t thorough”).  At 11:40 a.m., Member Blumstein 
forwarded the revised April 2 Outline to Assistant Superintendent Trach, noting that the 
revisions are “a lot” but that “it is worth the time to make your memo as strong as possible,” and 
that “[i]t will help persuade any doubting members of the SC of the soundness of your 
recommendation and will show the community the thoroughness of your analysis.”  Member 
Blumstein then forwarded this email and the revised April 2 Outline to Committee Chair 
Shannon Scully, calling it an “FYI.”  The Committee’s April 4 meeting took place, as scheduled.  
However, the discussion of the Application was continued to the Committee’s April 11 meeting.  
The Committee discussed the Application at length during the April 11 meeting.  Following the 
discussion and upon motion by Member Blumstein, the Committee voted unanimously to decline 
the Application.4 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The complaint was timely filed. 
 
As an initial matter, we address the Committee’s assertion that the complaint was not 
timely filed.  Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged 
violation could not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must 
be filed within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 
29.05(3).  The complainant alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
deliberated outside a meeting over five years ago, in April 2019.  The Committee maintains that 
the complainant reasonably could have discovered the alleged violation upon reading a 
newspaper article published in the Andover Townsman on February 7, 2023.  We have stated 
that when an alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably 
discoverable at the time it occurs.  See OML Declination 10-17-24 (Warwick Selectboard); OML 
2014-85; OML 2012-52.5  However, we have not declined to review a complaint on the grounds 
that a violation was reasonably discoverable by reading an article in a community newspaper.6  
Therefore, we find that the complaint was timely filed. 
 
  
 
4 Chair Scully and Members Blumstein and Spruce no longer sit on the Committee.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
6 In support of its argument that the complaint is untimely, the Committee relies on a prior determination issued by 
our office, OML 2019-170.  In that determination, we rejected a school committee’s argument that alleged Open 
Meeting Law violations relating to executive sessions were discoverable when the committee voted in open session 
to enter executive session.  In finding that the complaints were timely filed, we noted that the Saugus Advocate 
published an article on June 14, 2019, relative to the executive sessions, and that the complaint was filed on June 19, 
2019, “well within 30 days of the reasonable discovery of the potential violations.”  W e did not establish that an 
alleged Open Meeting Law violation is as a rule reasonably discoverable when it is the subject of reporting in a 
community newspaper. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. The Committee engaged in deliberation via email in violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; ...”  Id.  For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body.  Id.  See also OML 2022-45.  Additionally, a public body may not engage in a serial 
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of 
a meeting on a particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2024-
189; OML 2015-3; OML 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding 
that private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be 
used to circumvent the intent of the law). 
 
There are several exceptions to the definition of deliberation, which are construed 
narrowly.  See OML 2021-91; 2016-172; OML 2014-51.  For example, “deliberation” does not 
include the distribution of a meeting agenda or scheduling information.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
Deliberation also does not include the “distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  Distribution via 
email of a draft report, which contains the opinions of members of a public body, constitutes 
improper deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-135; OML 2013-
29.  A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a 
body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation, even if no other member responds.  See OML 2024-
35; OML 2020- 136; OML 2015-33.   
 
On April 2 and April 3, Members Blumstein and Spruce engaged in extensive 
communication to refine arguments against the Application, clearly public business squarely 
within the Committee’s jurisdiction.  This communication in isolation did not constitute 
deliberation, as it involved less than a quorum of the Committee.  However, when Member 
Blumstein forwarded the revised April 2 Outline to Chair Scully, the Committee engaged in 
serial communication in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The revised April 2 Outline and 
the email that were forwarded to Chair Scully did not fall outside of the definition of 
“deliberation” as a document to be discussed at a meeting, as the opinions of the two members 
were clearly expressed in the email and attachment.  Indeed, the April 2 Outline was crafted and 
revised by Members Blumstein and Spruce as a means to organize their arguments against the 
pending Application.  Sharing those arguments with a quorum of a public body is precisely the 
kind of deliberation that the Open Meeting Law is meant to prevent.  See OML 2013-194. 
 
Having found that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law, we next must 
determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, intentional.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may 
be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has 
previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  We 
acknowledge that at least two members of the Committee are attorneys, as noted by the 
complainant.  However, we do not find that this fact alone requires a finding of intent.  
Moreover, we have not previously warned the Committee about deliberation outside a posted 
meeting.  Therefore, we find that the violation was not intentional. 
 
Finally, it bears noting explicitly that the Division of Open Government is responsible for 
enforcing the Open Meeting Law.  Our investigation and the determination here are limited to 
the allegations raised in the Open Meeting Law complaint filed by David Matson.  Our finding 
of a violation as alleged by Mr. Matson does not preclude the possibility that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law in other ways which were not alleged in the Open Meeting Law 
complaint.  Moreover, we take no position regarding the applicability of our analysis or findings, 
if any, to the Litigation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by communicating via email about Fusion Academy’s application to operate a private school in 
Andover.  We order the Committee to release within 30 days of the date of this letter the email 
with attachment that Member Blumstein sent to Chair Scully on April 3, 2019, at or about 3:41 
p.m.  We further order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we 
caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Mat
thew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  David Matson (via email: ) 
 Andover Superintendent of Schools (via email: magda.parvey@andoverma.us ) 
 Chair, Andover School Committee (via email: lauren.conoscenti@andoverma.us ) 
 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   