===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 237 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Karis L. North, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
knorth@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney North: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 18, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Mendon Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 5, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated July 18. The complaint alleges that with respect to the Board’s June 26 
meeting, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 1) list on the meeting notice the 
individuals who would be considered for board and committee appointments and 
reappointments; 2) announce that the meeting was being recorded; 3) take votes by roll call 
where a member of the Board participated remotely; and 4) hold a meeting that was accessible to 
the public where the meeting room could not accommodate the crowd that wished to attend in 
person.
2  
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
After reviewing the complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice 
for the Board’s June 26 meeting, and portions of a video recording of the June 26 meeting,
3 we 
find, as the Board has already acknowledged, that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
 
1 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint raised six separate allegations. In the request to our office for further review, the Complainant 
requested review of four of the allegations, expressly withdrew one allegation, and did not note the sixth allegation 
at all. Based on the request for further review, we review the four allegations listed above.  
3 A video recording of the Board’s June 26 meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1t_n_kg-
90k. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
with respect to the first, second, and third allegations listed above. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the fourth allegation.  
 
First, we find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law
 by failing to list on the notice for its June 26 meeting the individuals who would be 
considered for board and committee appointments and reappointments. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b) (“The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”); OML 2023-195 (“We have consistently 
stated that to comply with the specificity requirement, the names of interview candidates and 
applicants for employment or appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of a meeting 
should be listed on a meeting notice.”).
4 
 
Second, we find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board failed to announce at the 
beginni
ng of the June 26 meeting that the meeting was being recorded. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) 
(“At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.”); 
OML 2023-73 (“The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any 
recording made by members of the public body itself, as well as recordings made for public 
broadcasting or administrative purposes.”). 
 
Thir
d, we find, and the Board acknowledges, that the Board failed to take all votes by roll 
call as is required when one or more members of a public body participate in a meeting remotely. 
940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). 
 
Fourth, we find that the June 26 meeting was accessible to the public. The Open Meeting 
Law
 requires that meetings of a public body be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3. Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54. However, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 (An 
Act Relative To Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of 
Emergency), and subsequent legislation, suspended the requirement that meetings be held in 
locations that are physically accessible to the public, provided that the public is instead given 
“adequate, alternative means” of access to the meeting.
5 Whether a meeting is held in-person or 
remotely, a public body must make reasonable efforts to accommodate anticipated crowds. See 
OML 2015-92; OML 2017-174; OML 2020-102; OML 2024-14. 
 
The B
oard’s June 26 meeting was held in a hybrid fashion with in-person access at town 
hall and remote access via Microsoft Teams. We understand the complaint to allege that the 
meeting was inaccessible because the meeting room in town hall was too small to accommodate 
the crowd that attended in person. In support of this allegation, the Complainant notes that in the 
video recording of the meeting one can see that individuals were standing in the hall just outside 
the meeting room; the Complainant does not assert that he attempted to attend the meeting in 
person. The Complainant asserts that these individuals were “an overflow crowd,” and that they 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 These provisions have been extended several times and were most recently extended until March 31, 2025. See  
Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2023. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
could see, through a glass wall, but not hear the meeting. The Board denies that its meeting was 
inaccessible.  
 
After reviewing the video recording of the Board’s June 26 meeting, we find that the 
meeting was accessible to the public. The meeting room was small, as was noted on the meeting 
notice
6 and mentioned by the Board during the meeting, and there were times that individuals 
stood in the hallway outside the meeting room. However, it does not appear that anyone 
attempted to enter the meeting room and was unable to do so, nor does it appear that anyone was 
instructed to leave the meeting room or told they could not enter the room. Indeed, throughout 
the meeting, though space was limited, there appeared to be space for additional attendees had 
any wished to enter the room and there was at least one unoccupied chair available. Additionally, 
we note that the public could also access the meeting via Microsoft Teams, and it is clear from 
the video recording that several individuals attended the meeting via this method. Based on the 
evidence before us, and the fact that we received no complaint from any individual who actually 
tried to attend the meeting, we find that the meeting was accessible and that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that, with respect to its June 26 meeting, the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to list the individuals to be considered for 
appointments and reappointments; failing to announce that the meeting was being recorded; and 
failing to take all votes by roll call where a member of the Board participated remotely. We find 
that the Board did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
6 The notice for the meeting stated as follows:  
HYBRID Meeting (see below detail) 
First Floor Conference Room, Town Hall:  
Note, space is limited. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: Alejna Brugos, Chair, Mendon Select Board (via email:  ABrugos@mendonma.gov)  
Ellen Agro, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@mendonma.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
