===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 17, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 196 
 
VIA EMAIL 
  
Connor A. Mullen, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
cmullen@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Mullen:  
 
This office received a complaint from Jude Ahern on August 7, 2025, alleging that the 
Wellfleet Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Ms. Ahern originally filed her complaint with the Commission on July 18.  
You filed a response on behalf of the Commission on August 7.  The complaint alleges that the 
notice of the Commission’s June 18 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We 
also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Commission’s June 18 meeting.  We viewed a 
recording of the Commission’s June 18 meeting.2  We spoke with the chair of the Commission, 
Leon Shreves, via Teams.  We also communicated with you via email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Notices of Commission meetings are prepared by the 
Conservation Agent Secretary (“the Secretary”), who is not a member of the Commission.  The 
Secretary prepares the notice and compiles documents for the Commission hearings.  The Chair 
traditionally receives the meeting notice on the Friday before a scheduled Commission meeting, 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 We accessed the Commission’s June 18 meeting at https://reflect-
townofwellfleet.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/6914?site=1.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
just as the other members do.  On Friday, June 13, the Commission posted notice of a meeting to 
take place on June 18.3  Among the topics listed on the notice was “Mail / Discussion: Shellfish 
Department Request for Letter of Support for Cultching Permitting.”  After the meeting notice 
was posted, the complainant visited the Secretary in person for further details about the 
discussion topic, as the Commission already permitted cultching.  The Secretary was unable to 
provide further details.  “She did not know.  Nobody knew,” according to the complaint.  Having 
failed to receive a clarification of the notice topic, the complainant departed.  The Secretary then 
contacted the Shellfish Constable Nancy Civetta, who told the Secretary that she planned to 
make a presentation at the meeting.  The Secretary did not tell the complainant prior to the 
meeting that there would be a presentation.  The Commission chair did not know that Constable 
Civetta would be giving a presentation, although it is not atypical for her to do so.   
 
The June 18 meeting went forward as scheduled.  Constable Civetta attended the June 18 
meeting and gave a presentation regarding cultching.  She advocated for expanding cultching 
operations.  The Commission discussed expanded cultching and at the end of its discussion voted 
in favor of writing a letter in support of the general expansion of cultching.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
The complaint alleges that notice of the June 18 meeting was not sufficiently specific 
because the topic “Mail / Discussion: Shellfish Department Request for Letter of Support for 
Cultching Permitting” did not state that Constable Civetta would give a presentation and it did 
not specify that the discussion would concern expansion of permitting.  The complainant filed a 
complaint with the Wellfleet Shellfish Advisory Board with the similar allegation that the topic 
“Cultch permit update” was not sufficiently specific.  See OML 2025-195.  Upon our review of 
that complaint, we found the topic “Cultch permit update” sufficiently specific to inform the 
public that the Board would discuss cultching, including possibly the expansion of cultching, at 
the subject meeting.  We found that the public could reasonably read the topic “Cultch permit 
update” to potentially include a discussion of the expansion of cultching and thereby make an 
informed decision about whether to attend the meeting.   
 
For the reasons set forth in OML 2025-195, which we incorporate by reference, we find 
the topic “Mail / Discussion: Shellfish Department Request for Letter of Support for Cultching 
 
3 The town website states that the notice was “submitted” on June 13 at 9:07 a.m.  We assume that the notice was 
posted the same day that it was submitted.  The Board is reminded that regardless of when a notice was submitted to 
a town clerk, the notice must be posted to the municipality’s official posting location 48 hours prior to the meeting.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §20(b).  See also, e.g., OML 2024-204 (public body violated the Open Meeting Law when notice 
was posted less than 48 hours prior to meeting even though it was sent to clerk more than 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting); OML 2022-116 (same).  The responsibility for ensuring compliance with the Open Meeting Law lies with 
the public body, not the Town Clerk.  See OML 2016-168.  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the 
Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Permitting” sufficiently specific.  It is true that the chair, or any individual delegated to create the 
meeting notice, must make some reasonable effort to ascertain what the Commission will discuss 
at a meeting and include sufficient detail about those topics on the notice for the meeting.  See 
OML 2021-121.  To find otherwise would render meaningless the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement that meeting notices include a list of the topics that the chair “reasonably 
anticipates” will be discussed.  Id.  Here, sufficient detail was included in the notice for the June 
18 meeting.  As with the notice topic at issue in OML 2025-195, the public could reasonably 
read the topic “Shellfish Department Request for Letter of Support for Cultching Permitting” to 
potentially include a discussion of the expansion of cultching, and thereby make an informed 
decision about whether to attend the meeting.  Moreover, there is no universal requirement 
within the Open Meeting Law that any time discussion of an anticipated topic will include a 
presentation, the presentation itself must be listed on the notice.  
 
Although we find no violation, to the extent that the Secretary sought and obtained 
further information about the topic as a result of her conversation with the complainant, it would 
have been courteous to follow up with the complainant to provide the information. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Wellfleet Town Clerk (via email: Townclerk@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
 Judith  Ahern (via email: ) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
