===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 21, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 142 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Verne Leach, Chair 
Peru Select Board 
selectman@townofperuma.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Leach: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Wetherell on April 24, 2023, alleging 
that the Peru Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 10, and the Board responded 
to the complaint by letter dated March 20.  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated 
during two meetings of the Finance Committee held on February 9 and March 1 without posting 
notice for a meeting of the Board. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review of the complaint.   In addition, we listened 
to audio recordings of the February 9 and March 1 Finance Committee meetings. 
 
The Board is a three-member public body; therefore, two members constitute a quorum.  
Board member Doug Haskins is also an elected member of the Finance Committee.  Board 
member Bruce Cullett also serves as the Peru Police Department’s Chief of Police and 
Emergency Management Director.  Board Member Verne Leach also serves as Peru’s Animal 
Control Officer.  The Finance Committee posted notice for and held meetings on February 9 and 
March 1.  The sole substantive topic for discussion at both Finance Committee meetings was the 
2023-2024 budget.  During the two meetings the Finance Committee heard from and discussed 
budget requests from various department heads. 
 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates in this letter refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Haskins attended both meetings as a member of the Finance Committee.  Mr. Cullett 
attended both meetings in his capacity as Chief of Police and Emergency Management Director.  
During the February 9 meeting Mr. Cullett discussed a request for a new police cruiser, and 
during the March 1 meeting he again discussed the request for a new police cruiser as well as 
other police department budget requests, including an hour and salary increase, firearm 
replacement, and repairs to the police garage.  Also during the March 1 meeting, the Finance 
Committee discussed the Fire Department’s budget request including a lengthy discussion 
regarding an increase to the Fire Chief’s annual salary and considerations regarding payment to 
the Chief of an otherwise-volunteer department.  Mr. Cullett asked some questions of the Fire 
Chief and at one point stated that he had thoughts on the matter but because the meeting was not 
posted as a meeting of the Board, he would refrain from commenting until the Board could 
discuss the issue at an upcoming posted meeting.  Mr. Leach attended both meetings but only 
actively participated during the March 1 meeting when the Finance Committee discussed the 
Animal Control Officer’s budget requests.  The discussion during both meetings was informal, 
with Finance Committee members, presenters, and members of the public often speaking or 
asking questions in a conversational style without waiting to be recognized or identified.   
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a public body with 
res
pect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority 
of the members of a public body.  Id.  However, a quorum of one public body may be in the 
same place at the same time, including attending the meeting of another public body, without 
triggering the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, provided they do not deliberate.  See 
OML 2020-40; OML 2015-38; OML 2012-6.  We have explained that the Open Meeting Law 
does not prohibit a member of a public body—or even a quorum of members of a public body—
from serving on another public body, provided that their discussions during a posted meeting of 
the other public body are restricted to matters within that public body’s jurisdiction.  See OML 
2018-112; OML 2016-119; OML 2013-155. 
 
Here, after reviewing the audio recordings of both Finance Committee meetings, we ar
 e 
satisfied that at all times Mr. Haskins participated and spoke in his capacity as a member of the 
Finance Committee, and not as a member of the Board, on matters within the Finance 
Committee’s jurisdiction.  In addition, Mr. Leach attended and spoke solely in his capacity as 
Animal Control Officer on matters related to the Animal Control Officer’s annual budget 
requests; such discussions were within the Finance Committee’s jurisdiction.  Finally, Mr. 
Cullett attended and spoke in his capacity as Chief of Police regarding the Police Department’s 
budget requests. Although Mr. Cullett also asked limited questions of the Fire Chief during the 
discussion regarding the Fire Chief’s salary, and at other points answered questions that were 
posed to him regarding historical matters unrelated to the Police Department where he was 
clearly recognized as a source of knowledge on town matters, such as the status of library 
building improvements, we did not identify any instances that constituted discussion among a 
quorum of Board members on Board business.  See OML 2018-112; OML 2013-155.  Therefore, 
we find that the Board did not deliberate during the February 9 and March 1 Finance Committee 
meetings and was not required to post its own meeting notices.   
===PAGE 3===
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.   
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Kimberly Wetherell (via e-mail ) 
Terry Walker, Town Administrator (via e-mail: townadmin@townofperuma.com) 
 Peru Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@townofperuma.com) 
  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
