===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 17, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 195 
 
VIA EMAIL 
  
Adam G. Gutbezahl, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
agutbezahl@k-plaw.com
 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Gutbezahl:  
 
This office received a complaint from Jude Ahern on June 12, 2025, alleging that the 
Wellfleet Shellfish Advisory Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1  Ms. Ahern originally filed her complaint with the Board on May 12 and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 30.  The complaint alleges that the notice 
of the Board’s May 6 meeting was not sufficiently specific.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We viewed 
additional materials forwarded to us by the complainant, including but not limited to text 
messages she exchanged with Board member Chris Merl, an undated letter from the Board in 
support of expanded cultching, and a newspaper article regarding the letter.
3  We also reviewed 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2025 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 The complaint filed with our office on June 12 also maintains that a document or power point that was used during 
the Board’s May 6 meeting was not included within the meeting packet posted prior to the meeting.  Ms. Ahern 
appears to recognize that such an omission does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent 
that she alleges a violation of the Law on this point, we decline to review the allegation.  The Open Meeting Law 
does not require that a public body provide a meeting packet to any individual prior to the meeting.  See OML 2025-
45.  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 “Cultching letter,” Provincetown Independent, August 28, 2025. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the notice of the Board’s May 6 meeting.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the Board’s May 6 
meeting.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On April 22, the Board posted notice of a meeting to take 
place on May 6.5  The notice included the topic “Cultch permit update.”  The meeting took place 
as scheduled.  Approximately ninety minutes into the meeting, Wellfleet Shellfish Constable 
Nancy Civetta addressed the Board for approximately 20 minutes.  She reported to the Board that 
she attended a meeting with multiple state agencies and the firm Tighe & Bond on April 30.  
During that April 30 meeting, she had educated those in attendance about cultch and advocated 
for flexibility in the designation of cultching locations in Wellfleet.  She informed the Board that 
the next step would be one-on-one meetings with the agencies and that the Town should propose 
a cultching area that includes as much of the contour around the mean low water mark as 
possible.  Constable Civetta showed the Board maps delineating current and proposed cultching 
areas, leading to a discussion of cultching areas.  She concluded her remarks by asking that the 
Board prepare a letter in favor of expanding the town’s cultching program. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.6  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting to observe the discussion regarding a topic of 
interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
 
4 We accessed recordings of the Board’s May 6 meeting and the Commission’s June 18 meeting at https://reflect-
townofwellfleet.cablecast.tv/CablecastPublicSite/show/6817?site=1. 
5 The town website notes that the notice was “submitted” on April 22 and revised on May 2.  The complainant 
makes no allegation regarding the timing of the posting; we assume that the notice was posted on the same day that 
it was submitted.  The Board is reminded that regardless of when a notice was submitted to a town clerk, the notice 
must be posted to the municipality’s official posting location 48 hours prior to the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§20(b).  See also, e.g., OML 2024-204 (public body violated the Open Meeting Law when notice was posted less 
than 48 hours prior to meeting even though it was sent to clerk more than 48 hours in advance of the meeting); OML 
2022-116 (same).  The responsibility for ensuring compliance with the Open Meeting Law lies with the public body, 
not the Town Clerk.  See OML 2016-168.  
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Notice of a meeting must include the essential facts regarding an anticipated discussion.  
See OML 2014-44 (notice that listed as a topic a special permit to park two heavy commercial 
vehicles was sufficient for discussion of permit to park one heavy duty commercial vehicle; “a 
reasonable member of the public would have understood from the notice that the Board would 
consider allowing the complainant to park heavy commercial vehicles at his property regardless 
of the specific number of vehicles.”).  See also OML 2015-35 (finding notice topic “Bridge 
Street Sidewalks” sufficiently specific to inform public that public body would discuss installing 
a sidewalk on Bridge Street, even though it previously voted not to install a sidewalk on Bridge 
Street).  When a public body anticipates that it will discuss a permit or plan for a specific piece 
of property, it must provide information about the permit or plan.  See OML 2023-182 (finding 
notice topic “101 Monponsett Street” insufficient where it “failed to include any detail as to the 
specific type of plan or permit under consideration with respect to this property such that a 
reasonable member of the public could determine the anticipated nature of the Board’s 
discussion”); OML 2024-43 (finding notice topics “252 Rowley Bridge Rd - Public Hearing 
Continued,” “202 Boston St. - Public Hearing,” and “10 High St. - Public Hearing” insufficiently 
specific where they did not identify nature of issues to be discussed,  namely, noise restrictions, 
overnight camping, and an affordable housing development); OML 2021-202 (topic “Bailey 
Project Special Permit” did not sufficiently notify members of the public that public body 
planned to discuss used vehicle processing facility).  
 
We find that the topic “Cultch permit update” was sufficiently specific to inform the 
public that the Board would discuss cultching, including possibly the expansion of cultching, at 
the Board’s May 6 meeting.  The complainant maintains that the topic of cultching is too broad, 
as it could include anything from seasonal reports to monitoring.  However, the topic specifically 
references permitting.  Moreover, to the extent that the complaint alleges that the topic should 
reference chapter 91 of the General Laws, we find that the statutory reference was not required, 
especially because the permits discussed at the May 6 meeting are issued pursuant to multiple 
laws, not only chapter 91.  To the extent that the complainant alleges that the notice should have 
made it clear that the Board would discuss an expansion of cultch permitting, we note that a 
notice need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion.  See OML 2024-122.  The 
public could reasonably read the topic “Cultch permit update” to potentially include a discussion 
of the expansion of cultching, and thereby make an informed decision about whether to attend 
the meeting.   
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
L
aw.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Wellfleet Shellfish Advisory Board (via email: SAB@Wellfleet-MA.gov) 
 Wellfleet Town Clerk (via email: Townclerk@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
 Jude Ahern (via email: ) 
  
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
