===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 28, 2013 
OML 2013-158 
Richard Barry, Chair 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
PO Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Barry: 
This office received three complaints, from Amy Kates, dated November 25, 2012; 
Barbara Trainor-Tessier, dated November 12, 2012; and Agnes Murray, dated November 
8, 2012, respectively, alleging that the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Kates' 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 23, 2012, and 
the Committee responded by letter dated October 4, 2012. Ms. Trainor-Tessier's 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about October 2, 2012, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated October 11, 2012. Ms. Murray's complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about October 6, 2012, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated October 11, 2012. 
All three complaints allege that during its September 18, 2012 meeting, the 
Committee entered into executive session for an improper purpose, and the Committee 
discussed an individual in executive session without affording that individual the requisite 
48 hours' written notice under executive session Purpose 1. In addition, Ms. Kates alleges 
that the Committee failed to sufficiently state the executive session purpose, both on the 
meeting notice and prior to convening in executive session. 
We reviewed the complaints; the Committee's responses; and the requests for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices, transcripts, and 
recordings from the September 18, 2012 and September 24, 2012 meetings. Finally, we 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
spoke by telephone with Committee members Richard Barry,1 Laurie Hadley, and Ms. 
Kates, who was a Committee member at the time these complaints were filed. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we investigated and considered this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing topics that were inappropriate for executive session; by failing to follow a 
required procedure for entering into executive session; by failing to include in its meeting 
notice a topic reasonably anticipated by the Chair; and by engaging in deliberation outside 
of a properly posted meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Committee consists of three members, thus two constitute a quorum. On September 14, 
2013, Ms. Hadley informed Mr. Barry that the Committee's Treasurer, Kristen Waugaman, 
had called to notify her that she wanted to resign from her position. Mr. Barry 
immediately called Ms. Kates to notify her about this issue. Mr. Barry then spoke with 
Ms. Waugaman, who expressed her four concerns to him. On September 16, 2012, Mr. 
Barry notified her that the Committee planned to convene in executive session to discuss 
her possible resignation. Ms. Waugaman initially indicated that she would attend the 
meeting, but ultimately decided against it. Instead, on September 17, 2012, Ms. 
Waugaman submitted a letter to Mr. Barry outlining the reasons for her resignation and, 
later that day, informed Mr. Barry that she would not attend the meeting. 
On September 18, 2012, the Committee convened in open session. The meeting 
notice, posted on September 14, 2012, listed only one topic for discussion: "Executive 
Session for the purpose of negotiations with non-union personnel (District Treasurer)." 
Following Ms. Hadley's motion to enter executive session "for the purpose of negotiations 
for the District Treasurer," the Committee engaged in a discussion about the propriety of 
entering into executive session to discuss Ms. Waugaman's letter. When Ms. Kates asked 
Attorney Boudreau to cite the purpose for the executive session, he replied that he would 
do so in executive session. Aside from the motion at the beginning of the meeting, Mr. 
Barry did not state the purpose for the executive session before the Committee approved, 
by roll call vote, a motion to enter executive session. Mr. Barry announced that the 
Committee would not reconvene in open session, and stated that the minutes from this 
impending executive session would be released at the next meeting. 
Ms. Waugaman did not have an employment contract with the Committee, and the 
Committee paid her an hourly rate. During the executive session, the Committee discussed 
the four reasons for Ms. Waugaman's potential resignation: her salary; the state of the 
Committee's finances; her office space; and the fact that "Amy Kates and others were out 
to get her." The Committee discussed how to resolve Ms. Waugaman's first three issues, 
including voting to hire an accountant to reconcile the finances for Fiscal Year 2012 and 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
relocating Ms. Waugaman's office. Then, Mr. Barry stated that Ms. Waugaman sent him a 
letter concerning Ms. Kates, dated September 17, 2012. After reading the letter into the 
record, Ms. Kates offered her initial response to the letter before asking for some additional 
time to address the complaint about her. Before the meeting adjourned, Mr. Barry 
informed the Committee that he would notify Ms. Waugaman about the meeting's outcome 
and would immediately let the Committee know what she said. The Committee decided to 
bring the issues up again at its next regularly scheduled meeting on September 24, 2012. 
During the September 24, 2012 meeting, the Committee disclosed the details of the 
September 18, 2012 executive session discussion and released the transcript from that 
meeting. After the meeting adjourned, Ms. Kates began a discussion with Ms. Hadley 
about disclosing Ms. Waugaman's resignation at a meeting of another public body earlier 
in the day. Mr. Barry then joined the discussion, which continued for at least three 
minutes.2 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may 
enter a closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting 
Law, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose 
for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising 
the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
This level of detail about the executive session purpose must also be included in the notice 
for the meeting. See OML 2013-140; 2013-28.3 
One permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, "[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1). If a public body plans to convene in executive session under Purpose 1, 
the individual shall be afforded certain rights. See id. Another purpose. Purpose 2, allows 
a public body to enter executive session "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or 
contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
The Committee's executive session discussion about Ms. Waugaman's concerns 
with her position was not related to the negotiation of an employment contract, and 
therefore was inappropriate for executive session under Purpose 2, or any other executive 
session purpose. See OML 2012-61. The subsequent discussion about Ms. Waugaman's 
letter regarding Ms. Kates may have been appropriate under Purpose 1, however the 
2 It is unclear how long the conversation continued, as the recording we reviewed ends three minutes after the 
meeting adjourned. 
J Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Committee failed to provide Ms. Kates with written notification that this discussion would 
take place, and failed to list this topic on its meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b) 
(stating that all meeting notices must contain a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting). Therefore, the Committee should not have 
discussed the matter, and should have deferred it to a properly posted meeting. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b)(3); District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School Committee of Way I and. 
455 Mass. 561, 567 (Mass. 2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in 
executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). Although the executive session was improper, we note that the transcript of 
the September 18, 2012 executive session was released at the next Committee meeting. 
Additionally, we find that prior to convening in executive session, the Committee 
failed to state the purpose for the executive session. Before entering the executive session, 
the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be 
revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, 
and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(b). Even after Ms. Kates 
inquired about the executive session purpose, Mr. Barry did not offer any detail about the 
pmpose for the closed door discussion. 
Finally, a recording of the meeting revealed that the Committee improperly 
deliberated immediately after it adjourned its September 24, 2012 meeting. While we 
recognize that many of the meeting attendees were still present, and likely able to hear the 
discussion, the Committee should not have engaged in this discussion because the meeting 
had adjourned. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 ("deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction"). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by discussing topics that were inappropriate for executive session; by failing 
to follow a required procedure for entering into executive session; by failing to include in 
its meeting notice a topic reasonably anticipated by the Chair; and by engaging in 
deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we order the 
Committee to review the Open Meeting Law Guide, available at the Attorney General's 
Open Government website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting, and certify in writing to this 
4 
===PAGE 5===
office, within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter, that its members have reviewed this 
determination and the Guide.4 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
cc: Mark Boudreau, Esq., Boudreau & Boudreau, LLP 
Amy Kates 
Barbara Trainor-Tessier 
Agnes Murray 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 The Committee may submit a combined certification stating that it has complied with this order in both the 
present determination and our determination in OML 2013-157, also issued today. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
5 