===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
September 7, 2021 
OML 2021 – 121 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
Philip Leger  
Chair of the Royalston Board of Health 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Leger: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on February 4, 2021, alleging that 
the Royalston Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 30, 2020, and the Board
responded by letter dated January 27, 2021. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board
violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its December 2,
2020, meeting.1
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting 
an insufficiently specific notice for its December 2 meeting. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further 
review, and the notice and minutes for the December 2 meeting as well as notices for Board 
meetings held from January through December of 2020. Additionally, we communicated by 
email with the Chair of the Board,2 the Board’s Administrative Assistant, and the Complainant.  
FACTS 
On November 5, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on December 2 at 7:00 
p.m. The notice contained the following topics, without any additional detail:
Review/accept minutes: 
Transfer Station Report: 
1 All dates are in 2020, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
Chair Report: 
Clerk Report: 
Member Report: 
Region 2 Update: 
MPHN Update: 
Old Business: 
New Business:  
 
On December 2 the Board convened its meeting as scheduled. During the meeting, the 
Chair provided updates under the notice topics “Transfer Station Report,” “Chair Report,” 
“MPHN Update,” and “Region 2 Update.” The Chair also provided an update on a condemned 
property under the topic “Old Business.”3 A member of the Council on Aging spoke under the 
notice topic “New Business.” No other discussions were held during the meeting, and the Board 
did not take any actions or votes during the meeting.  
 
The notice for each of the Board’s meetings held from January through December of 
2020 includes the same or similar list of generic placeholder topics as did the notice for the 
December 2 meeting, only occasionally including additional information. In response to 
questions from our office, the Chair explained that the topics included on the notice for the 
December 2 meeting were “placeholders” and that, in general, he does not anticipate ahead of 
time specifically what will be discussed during the reports and updates given at the Board’s 
meetings.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A foundational requirement of the Open Meeting Law is 
that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every notice include, among other things, “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We have said that boilerplate notice topics such as “Old Business” and “New Business,” on their 
own, are vague and do not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated topics to be 
discussed. See OML 2017-14; OML 2014-140; OML 2013-14. Additionally, we advise public 
 
3 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes for the December 2 meeting are insufficiently 
detailed, in particular where they state “MPHN Report:  Everything Covid.” The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions,” and that such 
minutes include, among other things, “a summary of the discussions on each subject.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read 
the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. A statement that a discussion on 
a particular topic took place, without summarizing the discussion, is insufficient. See OML 2020-149; OML 2020-
55; OML 2012-29. 
 
===PAGE 3===
bodies to avoid using abbreviations or acronyms on notices, particularly where the acronym used 
is not widely understood by members of the public. See OML 2015-154. When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific. See OML 2015-101. 
Where a public body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice as it pertains 
to that topic. See OML 2019-94; OML 2016-76.  
 
The complaint alleges that the list of topics included on the notice for the Board’s 
December 2 meeting was insufficient to reasonably advise the public of the topics reasonably 
anticipated for discussion. We agree. Although the Board did not hold discussions regarding 
each topic listed on the notice—for example, it did not discuss any meeting minutes—overall, 
the notice for the Board’s December 2 meeting did not include any detail regarding the 
anticipated nature of any of the topics discussed. Instead, the notice included a similar list of 
boilerplate topics to that included on all other 2020 meeting notices. Indeed, the Chair’s 
explanation that the topics listed on the notice were “placeholders” suggests that they were not 
intended to provide specific information regarding the topics reasonably anticipated for 
discussion at the December 2 meeting. Additionally, the notice included acronyms and topics 
that may not be clear to the public, including “MPHN” and “Region 2.” Although these topics, as 
listed, might have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting attendees, they 
are unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the regular matters before the Board. See 
OML 2020-164; OML 2013-55. 
 
Finally, we are not persuaded by the Chair’s assertion that he does not generally 
anticipate ahead of time the specific topics to be discussed at the Board’s meetings. First, we 
note that the Chair himself provided the reports or updates under five of the items listed on the 
notice. Next, we find that the requirement in the Open Meeting Law that meeting notices include 
a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting 
necessarily requires the Chair, or any individual delegated to create the meeting notice, to make 
some reasonable effort to ascertain what the Board will discuss at a meeting and include 
sufficient detail about those topics on the notice for the meeting. To find otherwise would render 
meaningless the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meeting notices include a list of the 
topics that the chair “reasonably anticipates” will be discussed. Furthermore, to the extent the 
Chair has delegated the responsibility of creating meeting notices, notices must still contain, in 
addition to those topics anticipated by the individual charged with creating the notice, those 
topics the Chair reasonably anticipates may be discussed at the meeting. See OML 2020-164; 
OML 2013-147 (“While the chair may delegate the task of drafting the agenda to another 
individual, the chair still has an obligation to inform that person of all items the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed.”). Where the notice for the Board’s December 2 meeting included 
only placeholder topics, some of which included acronyms and topics that may not be clear to 
the public, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently 
specific meeting notice. See OML 2017-14; OML 2013-168; OML 2013-14.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel 
free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
       
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Alexis Kenney, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
Michelle Deline, Administrative Assistant to the Board of Health (via email: 
  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
