===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 16, 2024 
  
OML 2024 – 134  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12
th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
cmurray@k-plaw.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray:  
 
On February 8, 2024, this office received a complaint from Michael Shannon, alleging 
that the Wellfleet Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 21, 2023.  You responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 21, 2023.1  The complaint alleges that the Board 
(1) discussed matters in executive session on June 27 that fell outside the purpose for which the 
executive session was called; (2) entered executive session without following the required 
procedure to do so; (3) failed to make executive session minutes available to the public; (4) 
failed to announce to the public the results of the review of executive session minutes for 
continued non-disclosure; and (5) deliberated outside of a posted meeting. 
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters in executive session that did not fall within the purpose for which the 
executive session was called, by failing to release minutes of its June 27 executive session and 
by failing to announce to the public the results of its review of executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals.  As to the remaining allegations, we either decline to review them for the 
reasons set forth below or find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint (with attachments), the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review (with attachments, including a 
letter from Board member Kathleen Bacon, dated December 28).  We also reviewed minutes of 
open sessions held from June 27, 2023, through February 6, 2024, the last meeting prior to the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
filing of the complaint with our office.  Additionally, we reviewed in camera unredacted minutes 
of the Board’s June 27 executive session.  Finally, we communicated via email with both 
parties.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In early June, Town Administrator Richard Waldo (“TA 
Waldo”) held a staff meeting.  At the close of the meeting, staff stated that they had complaints 
they wished to discuss with the Board.  After this request was relayed to Board Chair Ryan 
Curley (“Chair Curley”), he contacted staff and department heads to discuss complaints.  He also 
contemplated disciplinary proceedings against TA Waldo, including possible removal.  TA 
Waldo became aware sometime prior to June 27 that Chair Curley intended to commence 
disciplinary proceedings against him.  On that date, the Board held a meeting, during which it 
convened in executive session.  Notice of that meeting included the following executive session 
topic: “II. Executive Session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, Sec. 21(a)(1) to hear complaints against a 
public official or employee.”  At the June 27 meeting, the Board voted by roll call to enter 
executive session on June 27, repeating the purpose as articulated on the notice.  At the 
commencement of the executive session, Chair Curley announced that the meeting was not to be 
recorded.
2  During the executive session, there was a discussion of the complaints Chair Curley 
had received regarding TA Waldo.  The Board also discussed the role of the Board’s Chair vis-à-
vis the other four members; the dynamic among Board members and between Board members 
and town staff; communications by Board members; and how the Board and the town could 
move forward productively.  The meeting of June 27 did not result in any disciplinary action 
against TA Waldo.  The complainant alleges that Chair Curley emailed a letter to other Board 
members on July 6, in which he noted “significant differences” with the Town Administrator.   
 
From June 27 (the date of the meeting that is the subject of the complaint) to February 8, 
2024 (the date that the complaint was filed with our office), the Board did not announce in open 
session the results of a review of executive session minutes to determine whether continued 
nondisclosure was warranted.
3  
 
DISCUSSION  
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed matters in executive 
session on June 27 that did not fall within the purpose for which the executive 
session was called, or any other permissible purpose. 
 
As an initial matter, we address the Board’s argument that allegations concerning the 
June 27 meeting are untimely.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a complaint be filed with 
the public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged 
violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably 
 
2 There is no allegation that TA Waldo requested permission to record the executive session.   
3 Minutes of the June 27 executive session were released.  Therefore, there necessarily would be a decision to 
release them.  However, minutes of the aforementioned open sessions do not reflect any statement by the Board 
suggesting that it had engaged in a review of executive session minutes at reasonable intervals. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  When the complainant could understand the context 
of executive session discussions only once the minutes of those executive sessions were released, 
we will review a complaint that was filed within 30 days of the release of executive session 
minutes.  See OML 2024-47; 2017-53; OML 2012-10. 4   
 
Unredacted minutes of the June 27 executive session have not yet been released.  
Redacted minutes were released on November 1.  The complaint was filed on November 21.  
Because the complaint was filed within 30 days of the release of the executive session minutes, it 
was timely as to the allegation that the executive session was called for an improper purpose. 
 
The complainant alleges tha t the Board discussed matters during its June 27 executive 
session beyond the stated purpose of the executive session.  The same allegation was made in a 
complaint filed by Jude Ahern on July 25.  See OML 2024-128.  For the reasons set forth in our 
determination in OML 2024-128, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed matters during the June 27 executive session that did not fall within the purpose for 
which the executive session was called, or any other permissible purpose.  
 
II. The Board did not violate the procedural requirements of the Open Meeting Law 
when it entered executive session on June 27. 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board did not meet in open session prior to convening in 
executive session, as required by the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, §21(b) (“A public 
body may meet in closed session for 1 or more of the purposes enumerated in subsection (a) 
provided that: 1. the body has first convened in an open session pursuant to section 21; . . . .”)  
However, minutes show that the Board did meet in open session prior to convening in executive 
session; the complainant references these minutes in his filings.  Therefore, we find that the 
Board complied with the requirement to meet in open session prior to convening in executive 
session. 
 
The complainant also alleges that the Board did not state the purpose of the executive 
session when it voted to enter executive session.  When an alleged violation occurs in open 
session, the alleged violation can reasonably be discovered at the time it occurs.  See OML 2024-
47; OML 2020-53; OML 2014-85.  As the vote to enter executive session occurred during the 
open session, this alleged violation reasonably could have been discovered at the time of the 
open session on June 27, making the complaint, which was filed on November 21, untimely as to 
this allegation.  Therefore, we decline to review any allegation that the Board failed to state the 
purpose for entering executive session.  
 
To the extent that the complainant alleges that the Board prohibited recording of the 
exec
utive session, we note that a public body is not required to allow the recording of an 
executive session.  The Open Meeting Law affords the subject of a Purpose 1 executive session 
the right “to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session by audio-
recording or transcription, at the individual’s expense.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1)(iv).  This right is 
held by the individual who is the subject of the discussion, TA Waldo in this case.  See OML 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
2024-5 (noting that only the individual who is the subject of a Purpose 1 discussion may request 
that the discussion be held in open session, rather than executive session); OML 2018-116 
(noting that only the individual who is the subject of a Purpose 1 discussion has the right to 
attend the executive session); OML 2013-52 (same).  In its response, the Board implies that only 
the subject of the Purpose 1 executive session may seek enforcement of the rights afforded them 
as the subject of a Purpose 1 discussion.  However, we have in the past reviewed allegations of a 
Purpose 1 violation even when raised by someone other than the subject of the Purpose 1 
discussion.  See OML 2019-85 (finding that Police Commissioner was deprived of rights 
afforded under Purpose 1, as alleged in complaint brought by third party.)  Although the rights 
afforded under Purpose 1 are held only by the subject of the Purpose 1 discussion, we have not 
required complaints alleging a violation of such rights to be brought only by the subject 
individual.  Thus, that Michael Shannon was not the subject of the executive session does not 
preclude him absolutely from advancing the allegation that TA Waldo’s rights were violated.  In 
reviewing the timeliness of such a complaint, however, we consider when the alleged violation 
was reasonably discoverable to the Purpose 1 subject.  TA Waldo attended the June 27 executive 
session, and thus reasonably learned of any failure to allow a recording of the session on that 
date.  The complaint was filed on November 21.  Therefore, it is untimely as to this allegation.  
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
 
III. The Board improperly withheld minutes of the June 27 executive session. 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board failed to “make the executive meeting minutes in 
their entirety available to the public.”  We presume that this allegation references the heavy 
redactions applied to the minutes of the June 27 executive session.  Pursuant to the Open 
Meeting Law, “[w]hen the purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, 
the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege” or an exemption to the public records law applies to 
withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure.  G.L. c. 30A, §22(f).  Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer, provided, however, that the executive 
session was held in compliance with section 21.”  Id. (emphasis added).  Once publication of the 
minutes would no longer defeat the purpose for the executive session, the Board must publicly 
release the minutes.  Id.  See also OML 2017-87.  The burden of justifying continued 
nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham 
Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2022-213; OML 2021-26; OML 
2017-151.  Without elaboration, the Board explains in its response to the complaint that the 
complainant “was provided with redacted executive session minutes, as the Board has 
determined that continued non-disclosure is warranted.”5  Because we find that the discussion at 
the June 27 executive session went beyond the stated, lawful purpose of the executive session, 
the Board may not continue to withhold the minutes relative to that part of the discussion that did 
 
5 The Open Meeting Law does not give the Division of Open Government the authority to determine whether a 
public body's assertion of the attorney-client privilege is justified.  See OML 2022-87; OML 2016-129.  However, 
the Board’s reference to “continued non-disclosure” implies that the redactions are interposed so as to not defeat the 
lawful purpose of the executive session, not that they all relate to the attorney-client privilege.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
not fall within the purpose for which the executive session was called, as explained in OML 
2024-128. 
 
IV. The Board failed to announce to the public the results of the review of minutes of 
executive session for continued non-disclosure. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law further states that “[m]inutes 
of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” while requiring that 
minutes of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  Although 
“reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a quarterly review or a 
review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2020-101; OML 2019-45; OML 2017-104.  
 
At the meeting following each periodic review, the public body must announce which 
executive session minutes will be released and which will continue to be withheld, and the 
announcement must be included in the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see also OML 2020-
101; 2019-3; OML 2015-94.  A public body’s obligation to review executive session minutes for 
possible release is ongoing.  If a public body reviews executive session minutes and determines 
that the purpose for the executive session remains such that the minutes should continue to be 
withheld from the public, it must continue to review those executive session minutes at 
reasonable intervals until it determines that the reason for secrecy has expired.  See OML 2020-
101. 
 
The procedural requirements surrounding executive session, including periodic review of 
executive session minutes, are critical to advancing the transparency aims of the Open Meeting 
Law, because the public has no other way to know what happened at these closed-door sessions.  
See OML 2020-109; OML 2020-15; OML 2019-133.  Similarly, announcing the outcome of the 
review of executive session minutes advances the goal of transparency by informing the public 
that such records are available.  See OML 2024-67; OML 2012-2.  A review of open session 
minutes reveals that the Board did not announce the outcome of a review of executive session 
minutes at any time between the date of the executive session that is the subject of this complaint 
(June 27) and the date the instant complaint was filed with our office (February 6, 2024), a 
period of over seven months.  As the Board failed to announce the outcome of a review 
conducted at reasonable intervals, regardless of whether it actually conducted such a review, it 
violated the Open Meeting Law.6 
 
 
6 The Board also failed to approve open session meeting minutes in a timely manner , as required by the Open 
Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  See also 940 CMR 29.11 (defining “Timely manner” as “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.”).  As the complainant has not alleged untimely approval of open session minutes , we do not find a 
violation on this point.  However, we take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligation to approve open 
session minutes in a timely manner. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
V. There is insufficient evidence of deliberation outside a public meeting. 
 
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open 
to the publ
ic.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
The complainant alleges that Chair Curley deliberated outside of a public meeting when 
he sent a letter to other Board members on or about July 6.  In that letter, which is unsigned and 
undated, he purportedly noted “significant differences” with the Town Administrator.  Neither 
the complainant nor the Board has a copy of this letter.  The complainant drew the content of the 
communication from an article in The Provincetown Independent.7  The complainant does not 
point to any other evidence of deliberation outside of a meeting.  Because neither the 
complainant nor the Board has the subject letter in its possession, and both must rely on a 
newspaper’s account of the letter (as we would), we find insufficient support for the 
complainant’s claim that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting. 
 
VI. The violations were not intentional. 
 
Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A n intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  There is no evidence that the Board acted here with deliberate 
ignorance of the law's requirement or had previously been advised of noncompliance on the 
grounds set out here.  Therefore, we do not find that the violations were intentional. 
 
Unrelated to the merit of the complainant’s allegations, we note that the complaint is 
unnecessarily long, hampering review of the parties’ positions. We take this opportunity to 
remind the complainant to limit himself to the spirit of the complaint form.  See 940 CMR 
29.05(1) (“All complaints shall be in writing, using the form approved by the Attorney General 
and available on the Attorney General's website.”).  See also OML 2024-66 (noting that ten-page 
letter and large attachments filed with request for review were unnecessarily long.)  Although the 
complaint here made use of the complaint form, it was continued on a ten-page attachment, with 
a total of 44 enumerated paragraphs.  Many of these paragraphs are lifted wholesale from 
minutes or contain block quotes of statutory language.  Such unnecessary verbosity delayed the 
completion of the investigation of this complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board vio lated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed matters in executive session that did not fall within the purpose for which the 
 
7 Sam Pollak, Ryan Curley Is Ousted as Chair of Select Board, July 19, 2023. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
executive session was called, failed to release minutes of its June 27 executive session and failed 
to announce
 to the public the results of its review of executive session minutes at reasonable 
intervals.  We order the Board, within 30 days of the date of this letter, to release to the public 
the minutes of the June 27 executive session, in their entirety and without any redactions, with 
the exception of the single paragraph approximately halfway down page 3 summarizing the 
discussion of two complaints regarding the Town Administrator.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (“the 
minutes of any executive session ... may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their 
entirety ... as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.”).  
That single paragraph may remain redacted and withheld from the public until such time as the 
Board determines that publication would no longer defeat the lawful purpose for the executive 
session.  See id.  Additionally, we order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent 
to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Michael Shannon (via e- mail: )  
 Wellfleet Selectboard (via email: bos@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
Wellfleet Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@wellfleet-ma.gov) 
  
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
