===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
April 10,2018 
OML 2018-51 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/aeo 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated January 15, 2018, alleging 
that the Ashland Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. Lhe complaint was originally filed with the Board on December 14, 2017, and the Board 
responded by letter dated December 20, 2017. In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the 
Board held a meeting in a locked building. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a supplementary response 
from the Board filed with our office on March 23, 2018, which included a computer log of 
automatically-locking doors in Ashland Lown Hall. We also reviewed supplementary e-mails 
from the complainant dated March 26 and April 4, 2018. Finally, we reviewed a video recording 
of a Board meeting held on December 14, 2017.1 
FACLS 
We find the facts as follows. Ashland Lown Hall has three doors—a side door leading to 
a parking lot, a door at the basement level, and front door. Ashland Lown Hall utilizes an 
automatic door locking system by which town personnel can schedule times for all doors to lock 
and unlock automatically. In addition, the system allows manual ovenide, by which a person 
can unlock doors with a key. 
Lhe complaint concerns a Board meeting held on December 14, 2017 in Ashland Lown 
Hall. Prior to the meeting, the Ashland Lown Planner manually unlocked the doors to make sure 
that the automated system would not engage before the meeting began. Lhe complainant was 
1 The video recording is available at https://livestream.com/WACA-TVAshland/events/4875680/videos/167255302. 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
present during this meeting and spoke during a public comment period. During the meeting, the 
town planner left the meeting room several times, apparently to check the doors to make sure 
they were not locked. The electronic log provided to us by the Board shows that the doors 
automatically locked at 10:59:59 P.M. and were manually unlocked at 11:00:22 P.M. At 
approximately this time, the video recording of the meeting shows the town planner coming into 
the meeting room and informing the chair that the doors were unlocked. The meeting adjourned 
at approximately 11:25 P.M. The Board's legal counsel stated to our office that the doors were 
then manually locked for the night by the town planner at or about 11:28 P.M.2 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of public bodies be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public, the meeting 
venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2014-118.3 In 
a past determination, we said that a meeting venue was not accessible where the main entrance 
was locked and there was no signage instructing the public how to access the meeting. Id, 
However, we have also stated that a meeting in a locked building is sufficiently accessible where 
members of the public can access the building by notifying personnel or knocking on a window. 
See OML 2011-52. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the town hall doors locked during the December 14, 2017 
meeting, rendering the meeting inaccessible. In support of this allegation, the complainant stated 
that when he left the meeting, at approximately 11:10 P.M., he attempted to open a door and 
discovered that it was locked. The Board provided us with a log showing that the doors were 
unlocked during the time period at issue, and our review of the video recording showed that the 
town planner paid close attention to the issue of the doors. Absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body's version of events. See OML 2018-28. Here, while we 
acknowledge that there are contradictory versions of events, given the materials provided to us, 
we credit the Board's statement that the doors remained unlocked. We note that, even if doors 
did lock momentarily, the complaint does not allege that any member of the public was excluded 
from the meeting because of a locked door.4 Based on the foregoing, we find that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 In his subsequent correspondence, the complainant stated that there was a light next to each door that would 
display as green when the door was open and red when the door was locked. To the extent that a door that was 
unlocked manually may still display a red light, we agree with the complainant that a reasonable member of the 
public could see the red light and, believing the door is locked, assume that the building is inaccessible. We 
encourage the Board to investigate and address this. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 