===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 115 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ellin Asack on February 21, 2024, alleging that the 
Sandwich Historic District Committee (the “Committee”)
1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 21, 
2023. After an extension of time granted by our office, you responded to the complaint on behalf 
of the Committee by letter dated January 12, 2024. The complaint alleges that 1) the Committee 
discussed two topics during its October 23, 2023,
3 meeting that were not included on the notice 
for that meeting; 2) the minutes of the October 23 meeting are inaccurate; and 3) the minutes do 
not include a list of the documents and exhibits used at the meeting.4  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
it discussed two topics during its October 23 meeting that were anticipated but not included on 
the notice for the meeting, and by failing to include in the minutes for the meeting a list of 
 
1 The Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District was established in 1973 and covers multiple towns, one of 
which is Sandwich. Each Town within the district has its own Historic District Committee. The Committee at issue 
here is the Town of Sandwich’s Historic District Committee.  
2 The Complainant has filed three complaints with our office that relate to the Committee. Each complaint will be 
resolved by separate letter.  
3 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise noted.  
4 Our review is limited to allegations of violations of the Open Meeting Law that were clearly and sufficiently raised 
in the original complaint filed with the Committee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-133, 
n.4 (explaining that we decline to review allegations raised for the first time in a request for further review); OML 
2012-92; OML 2021-10, n. 2; OML 2019-1 (“Our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations.”). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
documents used at the meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further review, the notice and minutes 
for the October 23 meeting, a video recording of the October 23 meeting, and additional 
documents provided to our office by the Complainant.
5  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows. The Complainant owns property at 35 Gully 
Lane in Sandwich. The Complainant’s neighbors at 39 Gully Lane made two complaints about 
items on the property at 35 Gully Lane. The first complaint was filed with the Sandwich 
Building Department and alleged that a “wall” made of tree trunks and other vegetation had been 
constructed at 35 Gully Lane. On September 19, the Building Commissioner, Brendan Brides, 
issued a letter to the Complainant explaining his assessment that the “wall” was “more akin to a 
hedge” and explaining that the Zoning By-laws did not govern hedges. After providing some 
information, Mr. Brides’ letter instructed the Complainant to apply to the Committee for 
approval of the hedge and explained that the Complainant could also appeal Mr. Brides’ 
determination to the Committee. The Complainant chose to appeal Mr. Brides’ determination to 
the Committee. 
 
On October 16 the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 23 at 
6:30 p.m. Relevant here, under the heading “Committee Discussion” the notice included the 
following topic, “Review Decision of Building Commissioner, Required Certificate of 
Appropriateness for hedge exceeding 4 feet, 35 Gully Lane Constance Crowell Trust.”  
 
At some point on or before October 19 the Committee received a second complaint from 
the neighbors at 39 Gully Lane. This complaint related to a dirt mound located on the property at 
35 Gully Lane. On October 19 at 3:05 p.m., the chair of the Committee, Michael Sullivan sent an 
email to the Committee regarding the matter of the hedge at 35 Gully Lane and noting that a 
second complaint had been brought and would be addressed at the upcoming meeting as well.
6  
 
 The Committee held its October 23 meeting as scheduled. During discussion under the 
topic “Review Decision of Building Commissioner, Required Certificate of Appropriateness for 
hedge exceeding 4 feet, 35 Gully Lane Constance Crowell Trust,” the Committee discussed Mr. 
Brides’ September 19 letter, whether the hedge might instead be classified as a “structure” under 
the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Act, and whether the Committee had 
jurisdiction over the matter. The Committee also heard from the Complainant and one of the 
neighbors at 39 Gully Lane. Ultimately, Chair Sullivan made a motion that the Committee accept 
jurisdiction over the matter, consider the item a structure under the Act, and accept the 
recommendation of Mr. Brides that the Committee consider an application for a Certificate of 
Appropriateness with respect to the structure. The motion failed.  
 
5 Video recordings of the Committee’s meetings may be found at https://sandwichcommunitytv.org/government -
channel-15/. 
6 For the sake of clarity, we refer to the item that was the subject of the neighbors’ first complaint as a hedge, and 
the item that was the subject of the neighbors’ second complaint as a dirt mound. We offer no opinion as to how 
either item should be classified for purposes of determining whether the Committee had jurisdiction over these 
items.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 Chair Sullivan then turned to the complaint regarding the dirt mound at 35 Gully Lane. 
The Committee again heard from the Complainant and from the neighbors at 39 Gully Lane. The 
Committee discussed whether they had jurisdiction over this matter and the recommendation of 
James Wilson, legal counsel for the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District Commission, 
that the Committee conduct a site visit to view the dirt mound. Chair Sullivan moved that the 
Committee conduct a site visit before deciding whether it had jurisdiction over the matter. The 
motion passed.  
 
 Thereafter, Chair Sullivan turned to a new matter that had not been included on the 
meeting notice. The matter related to a letter of support for the Sandwich Historical 
Commission’s request for funds from the Sandwich Community Preservation Committee for the 
development and publication of historic district design guidelines. Chair Sullivan explained that 
he had received a request for support of the Historical Commission’s request for funds from June 
Murphy of the Historical Commission about a week or so prior to the Committee’s October 23 
meeting. Chair Sullivan stated that at the time of the request, he told Ms. Murphy that he would 
not have time to draft a letter of support prior to the Committee’s October 23 meeting, and that 
Ms. Murphy had therefore agreed to draft the letter. Chair Sullivan also stated that he had 
explained to Ms. Murphy that he would not sign a letter in support of the Historical 
Commission’s request without approval from the Committee.  
 
Chair Sullivan continued, explaining that after he received the draft letter, he sent it to 
Attorney Wilson for review, and Attorney Wilson had serious concerns about the letter. Chair 
Sullivan stated that the deadline for submitting the request for funds was coming up in the next 
few days and that he understood that if the Historical Commission missed the deadline it would 
have to wait another year before it could request funds again. Chair Sullivan also explained that 
he had unsuccessfully tried to connect Ms. Murphy and Attorney Wilson with each other that 
day, October 23, so that they could hopefully resolve Attorney Wilson’s concerns. Finally, Chair 
Sullivan explained that he was not comfortable signing the letter where he was not sure what its 
impact on the Committee would be, but that he wanted the Committee to give him authority to 
sign the letter should Ms. Murphy and Attorney Wilson reach an agreement in the next few days. 
The Committee did not take a vote on this matter, but the members indicated their support for 
giving Chair Sullivan such authority.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Fin d That the Committee Improperly Discussed Matters During its October 23 
Meeting That had not Been Included on the Notice for that Meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]x cept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must “contain the date, time and place 
of the meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Id. A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting, even if that 
topic is not included on the notice; however, the Attorney General strongly recommends that 
public bodies postpone discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
may be of particular interest to the public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See 
OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.7 
 
 The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law during its 
October 23 meeting by discussing the neighbors’ complaint related to the dirt mound at 35 Gully 
Lane because that topic was not listed on the notice for the meeting. The Committee asserts that 
discussion of the complaint regarding the dirt mound was appropriate under the topic “Review 
Decision of Building Commissioner, Required Certificate of Appropriateness for hedge 
exceeding 4 feet, 35 Gully Lane Constance Crowell Trust,” because the “complaint raised 
similar, related issues about the implications of the Old King’s Highway Regional Historic 
District Act (the “Act”) and the jurisdiction of the Committee at 35 Gully Lane.”  
 
Although it may be true that the complaint regarding the dirt mound raised related issues 
for the Committee to consider as the complaint regarding the hedge, the second complaint was a 
separate matter and was not related to review of a decision by the Building Commissioner or a 
hedge at 35 Gully Lane, the subjects identified on the meeting notice. Nor was this a topic that 
naturally flowed from the discussion of the noticed topic. Instead, the Committee’s discussion 
related to a separate and distinct complaint which Chair Sullivan clearly anticipated discussing at 
the October 23 meeting more than 48 hours prior to the meeting. Therefore, the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the second complaint where that topic was 
anticipated but not included on the meeting notice.     
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law during its 
October 23 meeting by discussing the letter in support of the Historical Commission’s request for 
funds from the Community Preservation Committee because that topic was not listed on the 
notice for the meeting. The Committee asserts that the topic was unanticipated because Chair 
Sullivan did not receive the draft letter until October 21 and therefore “did not have notice of the 
draft letter prior to the posting deadline.” The Committee additionally asserts that Chair Sullivan 
“was under the impression that a Committee discussion would not be needed,” and that it was 
“[o]nly on the morning of the meeting [that he] learn[ed] that the letter would not be finalized in 
current form and that a comment by the chair about the topic would be prudent.” 
  
 Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of events . 
See OM
L 2021-193; OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122. Here, however, based on Chair Sullivan’s 
own comments during the October 23 meeting, we find that the topic of the letter was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair 48 hours prior to the meeting. It is clear from Chair Sullivan’s comments 
during the October 23 meeting that he anticipated receiving a draft letter from Ms. Murphy prior 
to the Committee’s October 23 meeting even though he did not actually receive the letter until 
October 21; that he anticipated seeking the Committee’s approval before signing the letter; that 
he was aware of the deadline for the Historical Commission’s request; and that he was actively 
trying to facilitate a compromise between Ms. Murphy and Attorney Wilson. Therefore, we find 
that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed the letter in support of the 
Historical Commission’s request for funds where that topic was reasonably anticipated but not 
included on the meeting notice.   
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
II. We Fin d That the Minutes of the October 23 Meeting were Insufficient Where They 
Did Not Include a List of the Documents Used at the Meeting; However, We Do Not 
Find That the Minutes Were Otherwise Inaccurate in the Ways Alleged. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “creat e and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes 
must set “forth the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id. When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary 
of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to 
include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-136; 2020-105. 
However, minutes must include more than a statement that a discussion was held about a 
specified topic; the minutes must actually summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 
2019-167; OML 2018-8. Finally, this office reviews meeting minutes to ensure that they 
accurately reflect the discussions that take place during meetings; our office does not review 
minutes to ensure that the statements made during meetings are factually true. See OML 2015-
133; OML 2014-23.  
 
 The complaint first alleges that the portion of the minute
 s that record the discussion of 
the complaints regarding 35 Gully Lane are insufficient. Specifically, the complaint asserts that 
four separate sentences are inaccurate and that the minutes fail to include an exchange between 
Chair Sullivan and one of the neighbors at 39 Gully Lane. After reviewing the video recording of 
the October 23 meeting and the minutes, we do not agree that the minutes are inaccurate as 
alleged in the complaint. In prior determinations, we have not required the level of detail and 
precision that the complainant seeks. See, e.g., OML 2019-136. Additionally, as explained 
above, the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. Finally, to the 
extent the Complainant suggests that the minutes are inaccurate because they do not include 
more background information regarding Mr. Brides’ letter, the minutes are not required to 
include such detail. See OML 2020-155.    
 
 Next, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the October 23 meeting are insufficient 
wher
e they do not include a list of the documents used at the meeting. As explained above, the 
Open Meeting Law requires that, among other things, meeting minutes include “a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law 
does not define what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is 
clear that where a document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are 
discussed by the members of a public body during an open meeting, it has been “used” for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. As such, any documents 
that are physically present, verbally identified, and discussed during a meeting must be 
separately listed in the minutes. See OML 2022-141.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
The complaint does not identify any particular documents that are alleged to have been 
used at the meeting. However, the Committee does not dispute that it used documents and that 
the minutes did not include a list of such documents. In response to the complaint, the 
Committee amended the minutes of the October 23 meeting to include a list of documents.
8   
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Committee’s violations were intentional, as the 
Complainant alleges. An intentional violation is an act or omission by a public body or a member 
thereof, in knowing violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. An intentional violation may be 
found where the public body acted with specific intent to violate the Law or with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirements, or has previously been advised that certain conduct 
violates the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.02. In the past five years, we have not issued a 
determination warning the Committee against the violations found here, nor do we find other 
evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we do not find the 
Committee to have intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed two topics during its October 23 meeting that were anticipated but not 
included on the meeting notice and where the minutes for that meeting failed to include a list of 
the documents used during the meeting. We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future findings of similar violations 
may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
8 In the request for further review, the Complainant asserts that the list of documents included in the amended 
minutes is incomplete because it does not include photographs she presented to the Committee during discussion of 
the dirt mound, and which are referenced in the body of the minutes. We decline to review this additional issue 
where the Committee took remedial action after the complaint was filed, and we further note that based on review of 
the video recording of the meeting, it is clear that the Committee did not discuss the photographs. See OML 2015-56 
(“A document is considered ‘used’ at a meeting when it is, at a minimum, physically present, verbally identified, 
and its contents are discussed by members of the public body during an open session. ”). Indeed, with respect to the 
dirt mound, the Committee’s discussions were limited to whether it should conduct  a site visit to determine whether 
it had jurisdiction over the matter; the Committee did not discuss any substantive issues related to the dirt mound. 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
cc: Sandwich Historic District Committee (via email: planning@sandwichmass.org)  
Taylor White, Sandwich Town Clerk (via email: twhite@sandwichmass.org) 
Ellin Asack (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
