===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 22, 2016 
OML 2016 - 132 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12 l11 Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Jeanne Golrick, dated August 16, alleging 
that the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 14, and the 
Board responded by letter dated August 1. In her complaint, Ms. Golrick alleges that the 
Board failed to "take all votes by roll call vote" at its July 14 meeting during which one of 
the Board members participated remotely. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a 3-member public body. The Town of 
Montague has adopted the use of remote participation for meetings of its public bodies in 
accordance with the Attorney General's regulations. On July 11, the Board held a meeting 
during which one Board member participated remotely. The other two Board members 
were physically present at the meeting. All votes taken during the meeting were 
unanimous, but were not conducted by roll call. In its response to this complaint, the 
Board has pledged to take all votes by roll call during future meetings at which a member 
participates remotely. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. 
School Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law 
gives the Attorney General the power to authorize, by regulation or letter ruling, "remote 
participation by members of a public body not present at the meeting location[.]" G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(d). Pursuant to this authority, the Attorney General promulgated regulations, 
940 CMR 29.10, which govern public bodies' use of remote participation. One 
requirement is that "all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates 
remotely must be by roll call vote." 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). 
During the Board's July 11 meeting, one Board member participated remotely, 
however votes taken during the meeting were not conducted by roll call vote. The Board 
asserts that all votes were unanimous which eliminated the need for roll call votes. We 
disagree. Even if a vote is unanimous, the Attorney General's Regulations require that, 
"all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely must be by 
roll call vote." 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2015-145. 2 Accordingly, we find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We recognize that the effect of this violation was 
essentially harmless because members of the public were still able to discern how each 
Board member voted because the votes were unanimous. Nevertheless, the Board must 
still conduct its votes by roll call when a member participates remotely, even where the 
result of a vote is unanimous. The Board has committed to complying with this 
requirement in the future. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to take all votes by roll call while using remote participation during its July 
11 meeting. We take this opportunity to advise the Board of its obligation to conduct all 
votes by roll call while any member participates remotely. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (61 7) 963-2540 if you have 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jeanne Golrick 
Montague Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 