===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 27, 2016 
OML 2016 68 
Thomas A. Mullen, Esq. 
40 Salem Street, Suite 12 
Lynnfleld, MA 01940 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Terranova, dated May 6, 2016, alleging 
that the Lynnfield Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 4, 2016, and the 
Board responded by letter dated January 19, 2016. In his complaint, Mr. Terranova alleges that 
the Board chair improperly prohibited him from adding a discussion topic to a meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. During the time period relevant to this complaint, the 
complainant was a member of the Board. On December 29, 2015, the complainant contacted the 
Town Administrator requesting that a topic be added to the notice of the Board's January 4, 2016 
meeting. This proposed discussions concerned environmental and permitting issues surrounding 
a development on Apple Hill Lane in Lynnfield. The Town Administrator contacted the Board 
chair who, believing that the item in question was not within the Board's jurisdiction, instructed 
the Town Administrator not to add it to the meeting notice. 
The Board held its January 4, 2016 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the Board 
chair noted the request to add the Apple Hill Lane discussion to the agenda, but again stated that 
he did not believe the matter was within the Boai'd's jurisdiction. The complainant argued in 
favor of discussing the matter at issue and made a motion to add it to the agenda for the Board's 
next meeting. This motion was not seconded and failed. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting "at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and must include 
a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's 
discussion will be. See OML 2013-39; OML 2011-7. 
Here, the complaint alleges that that the Board chair violated the Open Meeting Law by 
declining to include the discussion of the Apple Hill Lane project to the January 4, 2016 meeting 
notice. The Open Meeting Law imposes no obligation on chairs of public bodies to place items 
on a meeting agenda, unless a chair anticipates discussing a particular topic. See OML 2015-73 
(stating that the Open Meeting Law does not obligate a body to discuss any topic). Rather, the 
law requires that a meeting notice list all topics the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed. Because the chair did not believe the discussion of Apple Hill Lane was within the 
Board's jurisdiction, and therefore did not anticipate discussing it during the meeting at issue, we 
find no Open Meeting Law violation with respect to this allegation.1 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin w. ivianganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Thomas Terranova 
Lynnfield Board of Selectmen 
We take no position on the issue of whether the Apple Hill Lane development is within the Board's jurisdiction. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 