===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 1, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 147 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Carter Terenzini  
Boxborough Interim Town Administrator 
Cterenzini@boxborough-ma.gov  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Interim Town Administrator Terenzini: 
 
This office received a complaint from Rebecca Neville on December 6, 2021,
1 alleging 
that the Boxborough Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 3, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 22. The complaint alleges that the 
Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience while we reviewed this matter. Following our review, 
we do not find that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting but do find that it met in executive 
session for an improper purpose on November 1. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice for 
the Board’s November 1 meeting, the minutes of the Board’s November 1 executive session, and 
a video recording of the open session portion of the November 1 meeting.
2 We also 
communicated with the Interim Town Administrator by email.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Town of Boxborough created a Personnel Board 
and established a Personnel Administration Plan (the “Personnel Plan”) which governs things 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 A recording of the Board’s November 1 meeting can be found at 
https://boxborough.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=fd91d304-728c-4659-b53f-1232dcbeb719. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
such as compensation, vacation time, classification, discipline, resignation, and termination for 
Town employees. The Interim Town Administrator joined the Town in July of 2021 and within 
two months, the positions of Treasurer/Collector and Assessor were vacant. Based on the Interim 
Town Administrator’s previous experience and his concern regarding the amount of turnover in 
the Town’s finance office, he suggested that the Town contract with a new Treasurer/Collector 
and Assessor, rather than have the terms of their employment dictated by the Personnel Plan. The 
Interim Town Administrator coordinated the effort to recruit, interview, and negotiate with 
candidates for the two open positions.  
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 1. Included at the 
beginning of the notice was an executive session topic which read, in part, “ii . . . possible 
discussion as to negotiations with nonunion personnel (Collector/Treasurer and Assessor), per 
C30A §21 (a) subsection 2, and to reconvene in Open Session after completion of the Executive 
Session.” The open session portion of the notice included, among other things, the following two 
topics: “Action RE: Confirmation of Treasurer/Collector Appointment & Contract - Terenzini 
VOTE” and “Action RE: Confirmation of Assessor Appointment & Contract - Terenzini 
VOTE.”
4  
 
The Board met on November 1 as scheduled and convened in executive session. The 
minutes of the executive session have not yet been released to the public; therefore, we do not 
recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during the executive session the 
Board discussed expanding the practice of contracting for certain Town positions; the authority 
of the Board to contract with respect to these positions; potential impacts and benefits of 
contracting; contracting for the Treasurer/Collector and Assessor positions, specifically; how to 
communicate the new approach to contracting with the public; past recruitment efforts by the 
Town; the contract terms for the Treasurer/Collector and Assessor positions; and the 
qualifications of the candidates. 
 
The Board then reconvened in open session. When the Board reached the notice topics 
regarding confirmation of the Treasurer/Collector and Assessor, they held a lengthy discussion 
during which the Interim Town Administrator provided background information, each member 
of the Board shared their opinions regarding the candidates and the pros and cons of contracting 
for the positions, and members of the public shared their thoughts and concerns. Ultimately, the 
Board voted to confirm both candidates and to authorize the Interim Town Administrator to 
execute the contracts as presented.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and that they be open to members of the public unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” 
 
4 We remind the Board that when it anticipates considering specific individuals for appointment, those individuals 
must be identified on the meeting notice. See OML 2016-167; OML 2021-131. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction,” with limited exceptions not relevant here. Id. For 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id.  
 
As explained above, all meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, 
unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of the ten permissible purposes 
enumerated in the law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One such statutory purpose is “[t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are 
narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637,641 (2008); OML 2014-4.
5  
 
Here, we find that the Board’s November 1 executive session discussions related to 
contracting and the Treasurer/Collector and Assessor positions were not appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 2 or any other executive session purpose. Purpose 2 authorizes 
discussion in executive session of strategy in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or conducting collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations, rather than 
broader policy matters. See OML 2014-30 (finding use of Purpose 2 inappropriate where 
committee was considering a general compensation policy with respect to two groups of 
employees rather than conducting negotiations or discussing strategy with respect to negotiations 
with those groups); OML 2019-170 (finding that a school committee improperly met in 
executive session under Purpose 3 where the majority of the discussions related to the pros and 
cons of outsourcing custodial services). The Board asserts in its response that no discussion of 
“whether to remove [the] positions from the personnel plan” occurred in executive session. A 
review of the Board’s executive session minutes contradicts this statement. Although the Board 
briefly discussed the terms of the specific contracts for the Treasurer/Collector and Assessor 
positions, the primary focus of the conversation related to the pros and cons of using contracts 
for these, and other, positions in general, how the contract terms that the Interim Town 
Administrator had previously negotiated with the candidates compared with benefits and terms 
under the Personnel Plan, and how to discuss a change in contracting policy publicly. These 
topics should have been discussed in open session, and we therefore find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by discussing them in executive session. However, we find no evidence 
that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting with regard to contracting with the 
Treasurer/Collector or Assessor.   
 
Because the Board convened in executive session without a proper purpose, we order the 
Board, within 30 days of this letter, to publicly release the portion of the November 1 executive 
session minutes that pertains to the discussion of contracting and the Treasurer/Collector and 
Assessor positions. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session . . . may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . . . [for] as long as publication may defeat 
the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the 
executive session was held in compliance with section 21”); OML 2014-42. Although we find a 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
violation here and order the release of the Board’s November 1 executive session minutes, we 
note that the Board held an in-depth conversation regarding contracting with the 
Treasure/Collector and Assessor during the open session portion of the November 1 meeting. 
Therefore, ultimately transparency was persevered with respect to that topic, and we order no 
further remedial action.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board met in executive session for an 
improper purpose on November 1. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and caution that a future similar violation may be considered evidence of 
an intentional violation of the Law. Additionally, we order the Board to release the portion of the 
November 1 minutes pertaining to contracting and the Treasurer/Collector and Assessor 
positions to the public within 30 days from the date of this letter.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jennifer Campbell, Chair, Boxborough Select Board  (via email: 
selectboard@boxborough-ma.gov) 
Rebecca Neville (via e-mail: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
