===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
December 6, 2016 
OML 2016-168 
Samuel Haupt 
Chair, Peru Planning Board 
3 East Main Road 
Peru, MA 01235 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Haupt: 
This office received a complaint from Robin Wadsworth on September 26, alleging 
that the Peru Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 15, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated August 25.2 In her complaint, Ms. 
Wadsworth alleges that the Board failed to post notice of its August 8 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed photographs depicting the Town's notice posting location on 
the evening of August 8, which were provided to us by Board member Kimberly 
Wetherell. Finally, on November 9, we communicated by email with former temporary 
Town Clerk Ann Dunne and spoke by telephone with the current Town Clerk Kim Leech. 
We find the facts as follows. The Town posts notices of its public bodies' meetings 
on an exterior bulletin board at Town Hall. On August 2, Board Chair Samuel Haupt sent 
an email to the Town Clerk and the Peru Board of Selectmen requesting that an attached 
notice be posted for a meeting scheduled for August 8. The Town Clerk had recently 
resigned. Therefore, a temporary Town Clerk along with the Board of Selectmen and its 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
staff were responsible for posting meeting notices during this time. The temporary Town 
Clerk has not been able to confirm whether this notice was indeed posted, and the current 
Town Clerk has been unable to locate a copy of the notice in her binder of meeting notices. 
Ms. Wetherell provided our office with photographs depicting the Town's notice posting 
location on the eve of the meeting. The photographs were taken at approximately 7:05 
P.M. on August 8. The photographs show that although notices of other public bodies' 
meetings were posted, the Board's August 8 meeting notice was not among them. Ms. 
Wetherell did not attend this meeting, asserting that she was unaware of it. 
The Board held its meeting on August 8. This complaint followed on August 15. 
In its response, the Board did not investigate whether its notice was, in fact, posted, but 
noted that a request for posting was timely sent to the Town Clerk. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[e]xcept in an emergency.. .a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The notice must be "printed 
in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting." Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to post notice of its August 8 meeting. 
Although Chair Haupt, in good faith, submitted his request to the Town Clerk six days 
before the scheduled meeting, it appears that the Town Clerk's Office inadvertently failed 
to post it. The photographs depicting the Town posting location show notices of meetings 
of various public bodies, however the Board's notice is missing. Moreover, the Town 
Clerk could not locate a copy of this notice in her binder of Town notices. We recognize 
that the Board is not responsible for posting its notices, but rather is the Town Clerk's 
responsibility. However, compliance with the Open Meeting Law's notice posting 
requirements remains with the Board. See OML 2016-87. Accordingly, based on the 
circumstances, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post 
notice of its August 8 meeting. See OML 2016-148.3 We therefore order the Board to 
take steps to remedy the violation by repeating its August 8 discussions, including ratifying 
any votes taken at that meeting, during a properly posted future meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post notice of 
its August 8 meeting. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 days of 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
2 
===PAGE 3===
receipt of this determination, to take steps to remedy the violation by repeating its 
discussions, including ratifying any votes taken, during a properly posted future meeting. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robin Wadsworth 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 