===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 27, 2017 
OML 2017-46 
Neil J. Harrington, Town Manager 
Town of Salisbury 
5 Beach Road 
Salisbury, MA 01952 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Harrington: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated December 15, 2016, 
alleging that the Salisbury Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 15, 
2016, and the Board responded by letter dated December 9, 2016. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Board failed to follow proper procedure before entering executive session. 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The complaint 
concerns the Board's November 14, 2016 meeting. During this meeting, the chair proposed 
entering executive session to conduct strategy sessions regarding two contracts—one for the 
Chief Administrative Aide to the Town Manager, and one for the Administrative Assistant to the 
Police Chief.1 The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
cite the statutory purpose for convening in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21. Before 
convening in executive session, "the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). While the Open Meeting Law requires 
that the chair state the purpose for the executive session—that is, which of the ten statutory 
provisions justifies holding the discussions behind closed doors—the law does not contain a 
requirement that the public body chair specifically cite the statute while making this statement. 
Id. Here, the chair stated that the Board would conduct strategy sessions concerning two 
employees. Because the chair thus described the purpose for the executive session, we find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.2 While the inclusion of statutory citations in meeting 
1 This statement mirrored the language on the meeting notice. 
2 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the chair should have stated that holding the discussion at issue in 
open session would have a detrimental effect on the Board's bargaining position, we note that such a statement is 
O 
===PAGE 2===
notices is not required, we note that adding this information gives members of the public idea 
better understanding of what a public body intends to discuss. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Salisbury Board of Selectmen 
Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
required for executive sessions convened under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Here, the context of the discussions 
indicates that the executive session was convened under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2), which contains no analogous 
requirement. 
Sincerely, 
K< 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 