===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
May 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 90 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Theresa A. Cofske 
Administrative Assistant 
Brimfield Select Board 
selectboard@brimfieldma.org  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Cofske: 
This office received two complaints from Michael Miller on February 1, 2023, alleging 
that the Brimfield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Both complaints were originally filed with the Board on December 20, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by separate letters dated January 19, 2023.  The first complaint 
alleges that two Board members, without authority of the Board, directed the Board’s 
administrative assistant to draft and send a November 9 email stating that the Board had voted to 
dissolve the Building Committee (the “Committee”).  The second complaint alleges that a Board 
member, without authority, directed Brimfield Public Access Television not to release a 
recording of a November 17 meeting of the Committee.1   
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the 
complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review of the complaints.  We also 
reviewed the minutes of the Board’s August 29 meeting and email correspondence provided by 
the complainant with the complaints, and spoke with the complainant by phone on May 23, 
2023. 
As a preliminary matter, we decline to review allegations concerning the authority of 
individual Board members to take action or issue communications or directives, purportedly on 
behalf of the Board, without a vote of the Board.  The Division of Open Government’s review 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Open Meeting 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Law does not govern the authority of individual public body members to act on behalf of the 
public body.  See OML 2020-12; OML Declination 9-14-22 (Oak Bluffs Planning Board).  
Therefore, these allegations, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law and we decline to review them.   
We do, however, review whether in the course of dire cting the administrative assistant to 
send an email to the Board, the Committee, and others, as alleged in the first complaint, Board 
members engaged in deliberation outside of a properly noticed meeting.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that meetings of a public body be noticed and open to the public, unless an executive 
session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. 
c 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  A public 
body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member, to facilitate communication on matters 
it would otherwise be required to save for discussion at a posted meeting.  District Attorney for 
the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009); OML 
2020-144; OML 2016-31.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is a simple 
majority of the member of a public body, unless otherwise provided.  
 
The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, three members constitute a quorum.  
The em
ail at issue was sent on November 9 by the Board’s administrative assistant, at the 
direction of Board member George Adams and with the approval of Board Chair Martin Kelly, 
to all Board members, Committee members, and several other town officials.  The email stated, 
in relevant part, “As you know, at the August 29, 2022 Select Board meeting the Board voted to 
dissolve the current Building Committee effective November 1
st, 2022.”  Although the email was 
sent on behalf of one Board member to a quorum of the Board, and others, we find that the email 
simply memorialized the discussions that occurred during a prior meeting, and therefore the 
circulation of the email merely served an administrative purpose similar to circulating draft 
minutes.  See OML 2022-138 (email memorializing opinions a board member had shared during 
prior meetings did not constitute impermissible deliberation outside of a posted meeting); OML 
2021-82 (select board chair’s weekly email recaps of select board meetings sent to all boards and 
committees did not constitute deliberation, where the emails merely memorialized discussions 
that took place during prior open meetings); OML 2019-78 (distribution of minutes ahead of a 
public meeting is permissible as long as the minutes simply memorialize the deliberation that 
took place at a preceding open meeting).  Therefore, this email did not constitute deliberation 
and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
  
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Miller (via e-mail: ) 
 Brimfield Town Clerk (via e-mail: TownClerk@brimfieldma.org) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
