===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 18, 2016 
OML 2016-143 
Mark Boudreau, Esq. 
Boudreau & Boudreau, LLP 
396 North Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Boudreau: 
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates on July 22, alleging that the Cotuit 
Fire District Prudential Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about June 
28, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 5.2 The complaint 
alleges that the Committee privately deliberated in preparation for its June 27 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the Committee's May 9 and June 27 meetings. 
Finally, on September 22 we separately interviewed by telephone Committee members 
Frances Parks, Laurie Hadley, and Stan Goldstein. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quoram. The Committee held a meeting on June 27. Due to unforeseen 
circumstances, the complainant, who had planned to attend the entire meeting, arrived 
approximately 12 minutes late to discover that most of the topics listed on the notice had 
already been discussed. The Committee had already discussed the following topics: 
Reappoint Clerk 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We granted the Committee an extension of time to respond until August 5. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Treasurer: 
Reserve Fund Transfer if needed 
Shared Treasurer with West Barnstable Fire Department 
To vote for Plymouth County OPEB Trust (PCOT) Investment Committee 
Governing Board Representative 
US Department of Agriculture application 
District Insurance 
Freedom Hall 
Rental, parking lot use 
Contract with Barnstable County for Web Services 
The complainant entered the meeting room as the Committee discussed the final two 
items listed on the notice: an Open Meeting Law complaint and the approval of the prior 
month's meeting minutes. During the discussion about the complaint, Chair Parks made 
reference to a meeting held on May 16 at which the Committee Treasurer, Michael Daley, 
notified the Committee that he had already submitted the Committee's warrant articles to the 
District Clerk. Chair Parks misspoke, however, as the meeting was actually held on May 9, 
not May 16. During the May 9 meeting, the Committee reviewed its concern about one 
particular warrant article which allowed for a salary increase for an employee in the Water 
Department. 
The Committee members did not discuss with each other, in person, by telephone or 
by email, any of the topics listed on the June 27 meeting notice or about the warrant articles 
discussed during the May 9 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id For the pmposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" 
is a simple majority of the member of the public body. Id 
The complaint alleges that, based on the limited discussion during the June 27 
meeting, the Committee must have met privately to discuss the items listed on the meeting 
notice. Additionally, the complainant alleges that the Committee referenced a meeting held 
on May 16 that was not noticed. Based on our interviews with the Committee members, we 
find no evidence that the Committee deliberated privately about any of the topics listed on the 
June 27 meeting notice. Furthermore, the meeting date of May 16 referenced during the June 
27 meeting was a mistake. Rather, Chair Parks intended to reference a meeting held on May 
2 
===PAGE 3===
9 at which the Committee discussed the warrant articles. Accordingly, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
Amy Kates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 