===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 28, 2013 
OML 2013-157 
Richard Barry, Chair 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
PO Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Barry: 
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates, dated September 25, 2012, alleging 
that the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about July 10, 2012, and the Committee responded to the original complaint by letter 
dated August 15, 2012.1 In her complaint, Ms. Kates alleges that during its June 28, 2012 
meeting, the Committee discussed and took action on a topic that lacked sufficient detail on 
the meeting notice. Additionally, Ms. Kates alleges that a quorum of the Committee engaged 
in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting, including when a quorum met on July 6, 
2012.2 
We reviewed the July 10, 2012 complaint; the Committee's August 15, 2012 
response; and the September 25, 2012 complaint filed with our office, requesting further 
review. In addition, we reviewed the notices, minutes, and recordings from the Committee's 
June 25, 2012, June 28, 2012, and July 10, 2012 meetings. Finally, we spoke by telephone 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
' In its letter, the Committee addressed the allegations cited in this complaint as well as a complaint filed by 
Agnes Murray. Since Ms. Murray did not request further review from our office, we will only review Ms. 
Kates' complaint. 
2 Ms. Kates further alleges, generally, that fellow Committee members deliberate outside of meetings. We 
decline to review this allegation because our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations. See OML 2012-106. 
3 We remind the Committee that, while a public body may authorize an individual such as the Town 
Administrator or Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney 
General's regulations require that the Committee first review the Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). It appears that Mr. Barry responded to the complaint prior to the September 
24, 2012 meeting at which the Committee first discussed it. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
with Committee members Richard Barry,4 Laurie Hadley, and Ms. Kates, who was a 
Committee member at the time she filed this complaint. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we investigated and considered this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting notice and minutes, and by engaging in 
deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The 
Committee consists of three members, thus two constitute a quorum. As early as September 
2011, the Committee began discussing the possibility of hiring a new treasurer, as then-
Treasurer Agnes Murray's employment contract had expired in January 2011. When Ms. 
Murray's contract expired, she worked at-will as the Treasurer. In February 2012, Kristen 
Waugaman was hired as Assistant Treasurer with the understanding that she would likely be 
promoted to District Treasurer when Ms. Murray retired. While Mr. Barry and Ms. Hadley 
both believed that the Committee had agreed during an executive session in March 2012 that 
Ms. Murray would retire on June 30, 2012, Ms. Kates asserts that the Committee did not 
establish a firm date for her retirement. 
On June 25, 2012, the Committee convened a meeting in open session. The meeting 
notice listed among the items for discussion the topic, "Financial Department." According to 
the draft meeting minutes, the "Treasurer's report was called for and copies provided to the 
members of the committee. Prior to any discussion, the Treasurer attempted to speak on a 
subject not on the agenda." The minutes do not indicate which subject Ms. Murray raised, but 
in its response to this complaint, the Committee explained that it anticipated that Ms. Murray 
would conduct a presentation on the Committee's finances; however, Ms. Murray raised an 
issue involving firefighters instead. Accordingly, Ms. Hadley promptly ceased this discussion 
by adjourning the meeting and announced that the Committee would reconvene on June 28, 
2012. 
The Committee again convened in open session on June 28, 2012. The meeting 
notice, posted on June 26, 2012, again listed "Financial Department" as a discussion topic. 
While a summary of the discussion is not included in the meeting minutes, Mr. Barry 
suggested during the meeting that Ms. Waugaman be appointed as Treasurer for three years. 
Ms. Kates raised an objection that the topic was not specifically listed on the meeting notice. 
The Committee then approved two consecutive votes to hire Ms. Waugaman for a period of 
three years, and to terminate Ms. Murray effective June 30, 2012. Ms. Murray and Ms. Kates 
repeatedly stated that the topic was not listed on the meeting agenda. 
On July 5, 2012, Ms. Waugaman informed Ms. Hadley that Ms. Murray had scheduled 
exit interviews with auditors at the Water Department for the next day, on July 6, 2012. Ms. 
Hadley then informed the Committee's counsel, Mark Boudreau, and Mr. Barry about the 
anticipated auditors meeting. Ms. Hadley suggested that Attorney Boudreau try to convince 
Ms. Murray not to attend this meeting, and if that was not successful, make arrangements to 
4 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
have Ms. Murray removed from the meeting. Attorney Boudreau contacted Ms. Kates and 
asked her to speak with Ms. Murray to request that she not attend the meeting. Attorney 
Boudreau asked Ms. Hadley and Mr. Barry to be present at the meeting to intercept Ms. 
Murray in the event that she appeared, to ensure that she did not represent the District at the 
meeting. 
On July 6, 2012, Mr. Barry, Ms. Hadley, Ms. Waugaman, and Attorney Boudreau 
visited the Water Department. Ms. Hadley and Mr. Barry deny having any conversations with 
each other during this gathering, and state that Attorney Boudreau was extremely careful to 
ensure that Committee members did not discuss any Committee business with each other. 
Instead, Attorney Boudreau spoke with Committee members individually in the hallway. 
After waiting for about 30 minutes for the auditors, who failed to appear, the Committee 
members left. 
Several days later, the Committee convened a meeting on July 10, 2012 to ratify the 
motions approved during its June 28, 2012 meeting. The meeting notice listed the following 
topics for discussion: "Ratify and confirm the termination of the former District Treasurer" 
and "Ratify and confirm the appointment of Kristen Waugman as District Treasurer." 
According to the July 10, 2012 meeting minutes, the Committee did not engage in any 
discussion about these votes. The recording reflects, however, that Mr. Barry explained that 
the reason for ratifying the votes to appoint Ms. Waugaman and to terminate Ms. Murray was 
because the meeting notice lacked specificity, "despite the fact that everyone knew what we 
were here for the last time." After the Committee adjourned the meeting, the members 
continued to discuss Ms. Murray's termination. Additionally, the recording captured the start 
of what appears to be a discussion between Ms. Kates and Mr. Barry about an Open Meeting 
Law complaint before Ms. Kates turned off the recorder, stating, "let me turn this off." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a) (b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
The Law also requires that all meeting notices "shall be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§ 20(b). The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess what 
will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those topics that he or she 
3 
===PAGE 4===
reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 2011-13.5 
We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion. See OML 2011-44. 
The topic, "Financial Department" on the June 28, 2012 meeting notice was vague and 
did not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated topic to be discussed at that 
particular meeting; namely, the termination of its Treasurer, Agnes Murray. The Committee 
made an attempt to remedy the violation by ratifying and confirming the votes at a subsequent 
meeting on July 10, 2012. However, the Committee did not engage in a substantive 
discussion on the topic before ratifying the votes, and therefore did not sufficiently remedy 
the violation. See OML 2013-16; OML 2012-113. 
Additionally, while we do not find evidence that a quorum of the Committee 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting when it met at the Water Department on July 
6, 2012, we find that the Committee improperly deliberated by telephone prior to the 
anticipated meeting with the auditors on July 6, 2012. A public body may not engage in a 
serial communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner 
outside of a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial 
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to 
circumvent the intent of the law). Accordingly, a quorum of the Committee deliberated when 
Ms. Hadley called Mr. Barry about the Committee's treasurer attending an upcoming 
auditor's meeting.6 Additionally, we note that a recording of the July 10, 2012 meeting 
revealed the beginning of a conversation between the Committee members immediately after 
it adjourned its meeting, suggesting improper deliberation. While we recognize that many of 
the meeting attendees were still present, and likely able to hear the discussion, the Committee 
should not have engaged in this discussion because the meeting had adjourned. 
Finally, while it is not alleged in the complaint, we find that the minutes from the June 
25, 2012, June 28, 2012, and July 10, 2012 meetings are inaccurate and lacked sufficient 
detail. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes from the 
June 25, 2012 meeting failed to include specific details about Ms. Murray's presentation to 
the Committee. Additionally, the minutes from the Committee's June 28, 2012 meeting- only 
two pages in length for a meeting that lasted almost two hours- failed to include any mention 
of the discussion surrounding Ms. Murray's termination or Ms. Waugaman's appointment. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Additionally, we remind the Committee that a public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff member 
or attorney, to communicate on matters that the Committee would otherwise save for discussion at an open 
meeting. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-
571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting 
deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form.") 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Likewise, the minutes from July 10, 2012, which were half a page in length, failed to reflect 
the reason the Committee convened the meeting. Accordingly, we order the Committee to 
draft and approve revised minutes for the June 25, 2012, June 28, 2012, and July 10, 2012 
meetings that contain a summary of the discussion with sufficient detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred.7 OML 2013-16; OML 2012-29. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting notice and minutes and by engaging 
in deliberation outside of a properly posted meeting. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. We also order the Committee 
to draft and approve revised minutes of its June 25, 2012, June 28, 2012 and July 10, 2012 
meetings within thirty (30) days of receiving this letter. Finally, we order the Committee to 
review the Open Meeting Law Guide, available at the Attorney General's Open Government 
website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting, and certify in writing to this office, within thirty 
(30) days of the date of this letter, that its members have reviewed this determination and the 
Guide. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Mark Boudreau, Esq., Boudreau & Boudreau, LLP 
Amy Kates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
7 The Open Meeting Law requires that the "[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a 
timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
5 