===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 2, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 61 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law 
 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo:  
 
 On November 28, 2025, this office received a complaint from Michael MacAskill, 
alleging that the Harwich Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 29 and you 
responded on its behalf on October 20.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by (1) meeting in executive session on July 14 without a proper purpose; (2) 
posting notice of an executive session to be held on July 14 that was not sufficiently specific; and 
(3) deliberating outside a posted meeting. 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
posted notice of a meeting that was not sufficiently specific.  We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further 
review.  We reviewed documents appended to the filings, including redacted minutes of the 
executive session held on July 14.  We also viewed recordings of meetings the Board held on 
April 16, June 30, and July 14.
2  We reviewed the notice of the July 14 meeting.  We reviewed 
affidavits of Board members provided by your office.  Finally, I communicated with you and 
with Mr. MacAskill via email. 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates are in 2025. 
2 We accessed the recordings at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b8XU0syGuOU (April 16), 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_Jn5FZKMkY&list=PLSetH4aNaSHBn8dDqQid4sJahXKYtijRr&index=29 
(June 30), and 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nT8wEQNoLvw&list=PLSetH4aNaSHBn8dDqQid4sJahXKYtijRr&index=27 
(July 14). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Th e Board is a five-member body.  Therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  The Department of Public Works (“DPW”) Director is appointed 
by the Town Administrator and is subject to day-to-day management by the Town Administrator.  
The Board has authority to amend and adopt the classification plan that governs the DPW 
Director’s salary but does not negotiate directly with individuals who fall within the plan.  The 
classification plan sets forth step rates applicable to the DPW Director.  On July 10, the Board 
posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 14.  The notice included the following topics: 
 
 II.  EXECUTIVE SESSION  
 
A.  Pursuant to MGL c.30A section 21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining for all town unions and non-union personnel and or contract negotiations 
with non-union personnel and the Chair has determined that open session would have 
a detrimental effect on the town’s bargaining position  
B.  Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with non-union personnel and to conduct contract negotiations with non-
union personnel: Finance Director, Acting Town Administrator  
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  During the executive session, Assistant Town 
Administrator Meggan Eldredge advised that DPW Director Lincoln Hooper had not had a step 
increase in four years and was now requesting a three-step increase, which would cost the Town 
approximately $30,000.  Assistant Town Administrator Eldredge was reluctant to grant the 
request, as Director Hooper was on a performance discussion plan with the previous Town 
Administrator.  A discussion ensued regarding Director Hooper’s hours, the effect of any step 
increase on retirement, and “option #2” outlined in the meeting packet.  The minutes do not 
detail the terms of “option #2.”  Assistant Town Administrator Eldredge opined that the Town 
could offer to “cut[] Mr. Hooper a check for the years” bringing him up to the current fiscal year 
but she was “not sure that that Mr. Hooper would accept it for Barnstable County Retirement 
purposes.”  The Board voted to offer Director Hooper a compensation package based on “option 
#2.”     
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it convened in executive 
session in preparation for negotiations with the DPW Director. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  All meetings of a public body must be open to the public 
unless the body has a purpose to enter executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  Public bodies 
may enter a closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open 
Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  One permissible purpose for convening in executive session 
is to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 2”).  Another permissible purpose is to “discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).   
 
Executive session purposes, as exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public 
body shall be open, are to be narrowly construed.  See OML 2025-29; OML 2024-37; OML 
2020-76.3  The complainant argues that because the Board does not set the salary of the DPW 
Director, then the Board could not properly meet in executive session “in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  According to Mr. MacAskill, because the Board does 
not negotiate directly with the DPW Director, it cannot meet in executive session to conduct 
strategy sessions relative to negotiations with him.  There is a certain logic to the complainant’s 
reasoning.  However, the Board can still play a role in the Town Administrator’s negotiations 
with the DPW Director.  Although the DPW Director falls within the classification plan, his 
compensation can still be subject to negotiation, as evidenced by his request for a change in 
steps.  The Town Administrator negotiates with nonunion personnel such as the DPW Director 
but may seek the Board’s input on those negotiations in executive session, which is exactly what 
she did at the meeting of July 14.  We find no violation as to this allegation. 
 
Although not a subject of the complaint, we also reviewed the other discussion held 
during the July 14 executive session, attended by Jennifer Mince, who at the time was a 
candidate for the position of Finance Director.  The Board is reminded that interviews or 
discussions of the strengths and weaknesses of candidates, not directly had in furtherance of 
negotiation strategy, must be conducted in open session.  See OML 2011-34 (Executive session 
“to consider finalists, not negotiate contracts,” was not appropriate under Purpose 2).  A 
candidate may not be asked under Purpose 2 about her background and qualifications for the 
open position.4  See OML 2024-150.     
 
II. The notice of the July 14 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, 
including a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when 
a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.   
 
The complaint makes several allegations that collectively fall within the broader category 
of insufficiency of notice.  These allegations mirror those made in another complaint filed with 
the Harwich Select Board, which is the subject of our determination, OML 2026-56, issued on 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Purpose 8 allows a preliminary screening committee to interview non-finalist candidates in executive session, 
provided certain requirements are met.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8).  The Board was not a preliminary screening 
committee. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
May 14, 2026.  For reasons similar to those explained in OML 2026-56, we find that the notice 
of the Board’s July 14 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
As explained in OML 2026-56, reference to the wrong statutory section when providing 
the purpose of an executive session does not (standing alone) constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-34; OML 2023-39.  However, when convening in executive 
session under Purpose 2, public bodies must identify, both in their notice and in the open session 
announcement, the name of the specific nonunion personnel that is the subject of discussion 
under Purpose 2, unless disclosure would compromise the public body’s negotiating position.  
See OML 2026-2; OML 2022-29; OML 2015-193.  The Board has not asserted that identifying 
the DPW Director would have compromised its negotiating position.  As the notice of the July 
14 meeting did not identify the DPW Director as the subject of an executive session discussion 
and where the notice instead referenced “all town unions and non-union personnel,” we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice.5   
 
III. The Board did not engage in deliberation outside a meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a public body occur during a 
properly noticed meeting that, unless properly convened in executive session, is open to the 
public.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction. . . .”  Id.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board deliberated outside a noticed meeting on three separate occasions. 
 
First, the complainant points to an email exchange between Member Jeff Handler and 
Chair Howell regarding the appointment of an Acting Town Administrator following the 
resignation of Town Administrator Joseph Powers.  Town Administrator Powers resigned 
effective June 30.  The Town Charter required appointment of an Acting Town Administrator 
within ten days of the vacancy created by the resignation.  In open meetings leading up to the 
email exchange, Member Handler had expressed his preference to appoint then-Assistant Town 
Administrator Meggan Eldredge as the Acting Town Administrator pending the search for a 
permanent Town Administrator.  Chair Howell wished to explore appointing someone from 
outside the current Town staff, as elevating Ms. Eldredge to the position of Acting Town 
Administrator would create a vacancy in the position of Assistant Town Administrator.  One 
 
5 Although not raised by the complainant, the notice of the July 14 meeting likely lacked sufficient specificity as to 
at least one open session topic as well.  Notice of the July 14 meeting included an open session topic “Staff 
Comments / Announcements.”  During this portion of the meeting, the Fire Chief and the Police Chief addressed the 
Board for approximately seven minutes about their response to July 4 crowds.  It is clear that Chair Howell 
anticipated that the Chiefs would address the Board, as he invited them to speak.  If he anticipated the discussion 48 
hours prior to the meeting, it should have been included on the notice.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  See OML 2026-9 
(“Boilerplate topics and placeholder topics lack sufficient specificity to satisfy the Open Meeting Law.”); OML 
2024-180 (finding “Public Comment” insufficiently specific where Board Chair invited panel of experts to speak 
during public comment period about a specific topic); OML Declination 7-19-23 (Fairhaven Historical Commission) 
(noting that “generic headings are insufficient when more specific information is known”). 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
outside candidate suggested by Chair Howell was Anthony Schiavi.  On July 1, Member Handler 
emailed Chair Howell, expressing concern about the ten-day deadline; he had assumed that the 
Board would appoint Ms. Eldredge to the post.  He asked Chair Howell “What is your plan?”  
Chair Howell responded the next day that “[i]t was [Member] Pete [Piekarski]’s expressed desire 
to move with Tony [Schiavi] in the long term.”  Three members constitute a quorum of the 
Board.  The complainant alleges that this exchange evidences communication among three 
members (members Piekarski, Howell and Handler), a quorum of the Board.  The Board 
maintains that Member Piekarski’s position, referenced in Chair Howell’s email, was expressed 
during open meetings, not in private communications with the Chair.  After viewing recordings 
of meetings, including the meeting of June 30, we are satisfied that Member Piekarski’s “desire 
to move with Tony in the long term” was expressed during an open meeting.  Therefore, the 
email exchange between Chair Howell and Member Handler was limited to a subquorum of two 
members and did not constitute deliberation outside a noticed meeting.
6 
 
Second, the complainant alleges that Chair Howell spoke to a quorum of members 
outside of a noticed meeting prior to a vote to pay Assistant Town Administrator Eldredge 
$165,000 annually, prorated weekly and retroactive to July 8, for taking the Interim Town 
Administrator position.  The vote occurred during an executive session convened on July 21.  
Based on the record before us, it is unclear whether this allegation is timely.  Assuming, 
arguendo, that the allegation is timely, we find no violation.  In response to our request, each 
Board member has executed an affidavit confirming that they did not discuss compensation for 
Ms. Eldredge outside of a meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also 
LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in 
favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly 
taken for the general welfare.”).   
 
Fina
lly, the complaint alleges serial deliberation regarding offering a salary of $240,000 
to Anthony Schiavi for the position of Interim Town Administrator.  The outgoing Town 
Administrator, who had held the position for six years, earned a salary of approximately 
$180,000 at the time of his resignation.  “The vote in favor of this substantially higher salary 
amount with no other discussion reflected in the minutes strongly implies serial deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting,” according to the complaint.  The complaint does not identify any 
specific communication that was exchanged among a quorum about the proposed salary for Mr. 
Schiavi.  As we have explained on many occasions, mere speculation or conjecture, without 
factual support, is insufficient to support an allegation that a public body deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting.  See OML 2026-3; OML 2024-108; OML 2012-59.  Moreover, agreement 
among a public body without substantive discussion or the lack of substantive discussion prior to 
 
6 There also was a verbal exchange between Chair Howell and Member Handler during the open meeting on July 14.  
Chair Howell indicated during the exchange that a vote may not be taken by the Board unless the notice reflects that 
“votes may be taken.”  We take this opportunity to clarify that the Open Meeting Law does not require that a notice 
separately indicate the possibility of a vote.  See OML 2024-156; OML 2023-186; OML 2021-153.  We cannot 
speak to the requirements of any other rule, for example, the Board’s own rules of procedure. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
a vote is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting.  See OML 2026-3; OML 2024-154; OML 2013-128.7   
 
Because the information before us does not support the complaint’s allegation that the 
Board deliberated outside a meeting, we find no violation as to this allegation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board viola ted the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted insufficiently specific notice of its meeting on July 14.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
Matthew
 Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Michael MacAskill (via email: ) 
Donald F. Howell, Chair, Harwich Select Board (via email: don.howell@harwich-
ma.gov) 
 Emily Mitchell, Harwich Town Clerk (via email: emily.mitchell@harwich-ma.gov) 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
7 The complaint alleges, in the alternative, that if the Board discussed the proposed salary for Mr. Schiavi during an 
open session, that discussion should be reflected in the minutes.  Minutes must accurately summarize what was 
actually discussed during the meeting. See OML 2023-130; OML 2022-189; OML 2016-155 (explaining that 
minutes should reflect what was actually discussed at a meeting, not matters that were not discussed).  Therefore, in 
the absence of specific information indicating that the salary issue was discussed, we do not review the sufficiency 
of the minutes.  See OML 2023-130. 
 
