===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 16, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 47 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Francesse J. Canty, Esq. 
Director of Human Resources 
Everett Public Schools 
121 Vine Street 
Everett, MA 02149 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Canty: 
This office received six complaints from Steven Fitzgerald on September 26, 2021, 
alleging that the Everett School Committee Subcommittee on Finance and Negotiation (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on May 7, May 21 and July 7, and the Subcommittee 
responded by letter dated July 26, pursuant to an extension granted by our office.1 In his 
complaints, Mr. Fitzgerald alleges that the Subcommittee’s notices for six meetings provided 
insufficient detail regarding executive sessions held on April 15, April 29, May 4, May 6, May 
20, and July 7. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to identify as part of each executive session notice item the collective bargaining unit with which 
the Subcommittee would be negotiating. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Subcommittee’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for 
further review. We also reviewed the notices of the six meetings.2 Finally, we communicated by 
email with you and Mr. Fitzgerald in January of 2022.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The notices were posted on the City of Everett’s website.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Commission of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in 
open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.” See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 
Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is 
necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper”). This level of detail about the executive session topic must also be 
included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-72.3 
 One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”). Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  
 All six of the meeting notices at issue included the same item, “Executive session: to 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with union personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with union personnel Mass. Gen. L. c. 
30A sec. 21(a)(2).”4 In its response, the Subcommittee concedes that the six meeting notices did 
not identify the collective bargaining unit with whom the Subcommittee would be negotiating. 
The Subcommittee does not argue that identifying the collective bargaining unit would have 
been determinantal to the Subcommittee’s bargaining position. Therefore, we find that the 
Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 We order the Subcommittee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution the Subcommittee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the 
future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. The 
Subcommittee has committed to identifying on all future meeting notices the collective 
bargaining unit with which the Subcommittee is negotiating as long as such identification does 
not compromise the Subcommittee’s bargaining position. 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 Although the Subcommittee’s notices combined the wording of Purposes 2 and 3, we find that the Subcommittee 
provided enough description to make clear that the six executive sessions would all concern topics that were 
appropriate for executive session. See OML 2016-95 (A public body is not required to provide the specific statutory 
citation of the executive session it plans to convene under, as long as the public body provides a sufficient 
description of the executive session purpose in order to ensure that the topic falls within one of the permissible 
executive session purposes.). 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Subcommittee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail: ) 
 Everett School Committee c/o Chair Jeanne Cristiano  
 (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
