===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 11, 2016 
OML 2016-138 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr., Esq. 
Emerson & Emerson 
33 Whitney Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Joaquin Soares, dated August 8, alleging that the 
Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 1, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated August 5.2 In his complaint, Mr. Soares alleges that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice, and (ii) 
convening in executive session without a proper statutory puipose. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of a Committee 
meeting held on June 7, and we reviewed the minutes of an executive session held on this same 
date.3 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, of which Mr. 
Soares is a member. The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on June 7. The notice 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within fourteen business days of receipt of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the 
Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 19.05(5), (6). We remind 
the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within the time fi-ame required by law. 
3 Mr. Soares sent a letter dated September 13 containing additional allegations not found in the complaint filed with 
the Committee. Among these additional allegations are that the Committee did not make open session meeting 
minutes available with ten days of a request, and that certain meeting notices and minutes lack sufficient detail. 
Because these allegations were not included in the complaint filed with the Committee, we do not address them 
now. See OML 2016-131. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
stated that the Committee would convene in executive session to discuss three topics: (i) "Open 
Meeting Law Complaints," (ii) "Acceptance of Executive Session Minutes," and (iii) "Update on 
Stoughton Teachers Association Grievances." The Committee met on June 7 as planned. Upon 
convening in executive session, the Committee discussed an Open Meeting Law complaint that 
had been filed by Mr. Soares alleging that minutes of the Committee's July 28, 2015 meeting 
contained inaccuracies. The Committee discussed the minutes at issue in order to understand 
Mr. Soares' allegations. The members discussed amendments to the minutes to satisfy the 
concerns raised by the complaint. A Committee member "reminded Mr, Soares that everyone on 
the [Committee] is a volunteer, and everyone works very hard." Another Committee member 
stated that Mr. Soares should bring issues concerning minutes to the Committee's attention at the 
time the minutes are being reviewed. Another Committee member stated that Mr, Soares was 
"wasting the Committee's time." Ultimately, the Committee voted 4-1 to accept the amended 
minutes of the July 28, 2015 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee's June 7 Meeting Notice is Sufficiently Detailed. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's June 7 meeting notice is insufficiently 
detailed because the discussion of "Open Meeting Law Complaints" is the same as the discussion 
of "Acceptance of Executive Session Minutes" and therefore should not have been listed as two 
separate items on the meeting notice. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a 
meeting notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include "the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting," G,L, c, 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand what the nature of the 
public body's discussion will be. See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74.4 
We find that the notice was sufficiently detailed so that a reasonable member of the 
public could read it and understand the nature of the anticipated discussion—that is, the 
discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint and the acceptance of related minutes. 
Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
II. The Committee Held its June 7 Executive Session for a Proper Purpose. 
The complaint challenges the propriety of certain portions of the Committee's June 7 
executive session discussion, arguing that the Committee "put [the complainant] on trial" for 
filing previous Open Meeting Law complaints. A public body may enter into executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such puipose is to "discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L, c, 3 OA, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). A public body may enter into executive session under Puipose 1 to discuss an 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Open Meeting Law complaint, as it represents a complaint against the public body members as 
individual public officials. See OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82. 
Our review of the June 7 executive session minutes demonstrates that the Committee 
discussed the complaint filed by Mr. Soares, including the underlying merits of the complaint 
and ways to address future issues similar to the ones raised therein. On these facts, we find that 
the discussion concerned the complaint filed with the Committee, and, as such, it was 
appropriate for discussion in a Purpose 1 executive session. See OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6. 
We therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Joaquin Soares 
Stoughton School Committee 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d), The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 