===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 6, 2017 
OML 2017-5 
David Despres, Chair 
Fairhaven Historical Commission 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Despres: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Vilandry, dated September 19, alleging that 
the Fairhaven Historical Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on September 2, and 
the Commission responded by letter dated September 14. In her complaint, Ms. Vilandry alleges 
that the Commission created insufficiently detailed meeting minutes. 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that, while the Commission did not include a particular statement in 
its meeting minutes, any resulting error was harmless. 
At issue are the minutes of the Commission's July 27 meeting. During this meeting, a 
Commission member gave a brief update on a community event that was to take place in Cooke 
Memorial Park in Fairhaven. This statement is not contained in the Commission's July 27 
minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to create and maintain minutes of all 
meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must include the "date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." Id. The statement at issue was a minor update, and it did not involve 
substantial discussion between Board members. Nevertheless, we have concluded in the past 
that even brief updates by public body members must be accurately summarized in meeting 
minutes. See OML 2016-158; OML 2016-35.2 We note that the Commission chair stated to our 
office that the Commission would vote at an upcoming meeting to amend the July 27 minutes to 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 Open Meeting Law determination letters may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
include the omitted statement. For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that any error in the 
omission of the statement at issue was harmless. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. IVfangan^o^ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Vilandry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 