===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 29, 2017 
OML 2017-107 
Carolyn Turner, Chair 
Woburn Planning Board 
City Hall 
10 Common Street 
Woburn, MA 01801 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Turner; 
This office received a complaint from Christopher and Mary Owen on March 18, 
2017 alleging that the Woburn Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
December 28, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 17, 
2017. The complaint alleges that i) the notice for the Board's November 29 meeting that 
was posted to the municipal website did not contain the same topics as the notice posted 
with the City Clerk; ii) the open session minutes for the Board's November 29 meeting 
are inaccurate; and iii) the notice for the Board's December 13 meeting lacked sufficient 
detail.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include two discussion topics in the official notice for its November 29 
meeting. We find no evidence, however, that the Board violated the law in the other 
ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice of and open session minutes from the 
Board's November 29 meeting, as well as the original and revised notices of and open 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board's notices and minutes generally lack sufficient detail. We will 
not conduct broad audits of a public body and thus decline to review generalized allegations about notice 
posting practices or sufficiency of minutes. See OML 2016-57. Accordingly, we limit our review of the 
complaint to the Board's November 29 and December 13 meetings. 
O 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
session minutes from the Board's December 13 meeting. Finally, we reviewed the video 
recording of the Board's November 29 meeting.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On November 22, the Board posted notice with the 
City Clerk for a meeting to be held on November 29 at 7:00 P.M. The notice was posted 
to the City's website, www.cityofwobum.com, and on the bulletin board at City Hall. 
The notice listed six topics, including "Subdivisions." Under the heading "Subdivisions," 
the notice listed four specific topics the Board planned to discuss - Cedar Street 
Definitive Plan Public Hearing, Wall Estates Subdivision, Carl Forester Subdivision, and 
Freemont Street Subdivision. The notice posted to the City's website, which the City has 
adopted as its official notice posting method, did not include the topics of Carl Forester 
Subdivision or Freemont Street Subdivision under the "Subdivisions" heading. 
The November 29 meeting was held as planned. The Board discussed curbing 
and drainage pertaining to the Cedar Street Plan and then approved by a unanimous vote 
to continue discussion of this matter to its next meeting on December 13. The Board 
briefly discussed the requests for extensions filed by the applicants of the Wall Estates 
Subdivision and the Carl Forester Subdivision and then approved by unanimous votes to 
continue both of the matters to its December 13 meeting. Chair Carol Turner abstained 
from voting on both the Wall Estates Subdivision and Carl Forester Subdivision matters. 
Planning Director Tina Cassidy informed the Board that it was premature to discuss the 
Freemont Street Subdivision matter "and it should be taken off the agenda until a later 
date" because the plan for this project had not yet been submitted to the City for review. 
On December 8, the Board posted notice with the City Clerk for a meeting to be 
held on December 13 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, including "Other 
Business Matters that May Legally Come Before the Board Not Known at the Time of 
Posting." On December 12 at 10:25 A.M., the Board posted a revised notice which 
included one additional topic, "Update/Discussion of Format of Future Board Meeting 
Agendas." Both agendas included the following statement, "At the Planning Board's 
discretion, agenda items may be deleted or discussed in a different order than they appear 
on this agenda." 
The December 13 meeting was held as planned. The Board continued discussions 
of the Cedar Street Definitive Subdivision, Wall Estates Subdivision, and Carl Forester 
Subdivision. Chair Carol Turner recused herself from the Wall Estates Subdivision and 
Carl Forester Subdivision matters because of a conflict of interest. The Board then 
discussed the scheduling of public hearings, whether to list specific start times on the 
notice for each hearing, and the deletion of items from the notice. During "Other 
Business," the Board discussed the development of a four-lot project at 22 Winter Street. 
3 The video recording can be found at www.wobumpublicmediacenter.org. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that the municipal clerk post notice of meetings 
in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal 
building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such notice is not 
conspicuously visible to the public during hours when the clerk's office is closed, such 
notice shall also be made available through one of the alternative methods approved by 
the Attorney General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). The Attorney General has determined 
that posting meeting notices to a municipal website provides effective notice to the 
public. 940 CMR 29.03(2). Here, the City's approved website location for posting 
notices is www.cityofwobum.com. 
The complaint alleges that the November 29 meeting notice that was posted to the 
City's website did not include two topics that were listed on the notice posted with the 
City Clerk. A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in 
advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The Board acknowledges that two topics, 
Carl Forester Subdivision and Freemont Street Subdivision, that were listed on the notice 
posted with the City Clerk under the heading "Subdivisions" were not listed on the notice 
posted to the website. Because the Board briefly discussed and voted on both the Carl 
Forester and Freemont Street Subdivisions during the November 29 meeting, we find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We understand that the Board now has direct access 
to the municipal website to post its own notices. We commend the Board for taking this 
action to ensure future compliance. 
The complaint also alleges that the minutes from the Board's November 29 
meeting "do not adequately address the discussion." The Open Meeting Law requires 
that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, 
a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the 
record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2013-64.4 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. After reviewing the video recording of the Board's 
November 29 meeting, we find that the approved open session minutes provide an 
accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the discussions that occurred. See OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
remark or opinion presented). Accordingly, we find that the Board's minutes complied 
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint further alleges that the December 13 meeting notice lacked 
sufficient detail in that it did not provide specific topics that the Board would discuss 
under the heading of "Other Business Matters that May Legally Come Before the Board 
Not Known at the Time of Posting," specifically the 22 Winter Street project. A public 
body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by 
the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Because 
certain information regarding the property was not provided to the Board until the day 
before the December 13 meeting, we find that the Chair could not have foreseen the need 
to discuss this topic when the meeting notice was created. While a public body may 
consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably 
anticipated at least 48 hours before the meeting, we strongly encourage public bodies to 
postpone discussion of topics that were not listed in the meeting notice until the topic 
may be included in a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action 
by the public body. See OML 2011-23; OML 2013-197. 
Finally, we note that public bodies may include a topic in their notices for the 
discussion of matters not reasonably anticipated by the chair. See OML 2015-115; OML 
2015-127. Here the Board indicated explicitly, with the heading "Other Business Matters 
that May Legally Come Before the Board Not Known at the Time of Posting," that 
certain time was reserved for topics not anticipated by the chair and thus we find that the 
Board's use of this language on the meeting notice did not violate the law's requirements. 
See OML 2013-13. The complainant also raises a concern that the notice included a 
statement indicating that items may be deleted from the agenda. The Open Meeting Law 
does not prohibit a public body from removing, postponing, or declining to discuss a 
topic listed on a meeting notice or agenda. See OML 2012-23. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting by 
failing to include two discussion topics in the official notice for its November 29 
meeting. With respect to the remaining allegations, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Christopher & Mary Owen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt 
of a final order. 
5 