===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
January 15, 2015 
OML 2015-10 
Harry C. Beach, Esq. 
Law Office of Harry C. Beach 
30 Walpole Street 
Norwood, MA 02062 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Beach: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Steven Kaplan dated June 19, alleging that the 
Sharon School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 2, and the Committee 
responded to the original complaint by letter dated June 18. In his complaint, Mr. Kaplan alleges 
that on five occasions the Committee either failed to state a proper purpose for an executive 
session, or entered executive session without a valid purpose. Additionally, the complainant 
alleges that on one occasion deliberation occurred outside of an open meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the agendas and open session meeting 
minutes for the five meeting dates referenced in the complaint: January 29, February 26, March 
12, March 26, and April 9. Finally, we reviewed, in camera, the executive session meeting 
minutes from these same dates. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a six-member public body responsible 
for the operation of schools within the Town of Sharon. The complainant, Steven Kaplan, is 
employed by the Sharon Public Schools as the Director of Student Services. In this position, Mr. 
Kaplan is responsible for special education programs, as well as for psychological, guidance, and 
nursing services. Mr. Kaplan's employment contract was set to expire on June 30. At issue are 
several meetings of the Committee, which we discuss below. 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 The complaint also alleges violations of state conflict of interest laws and ethics laws. These allegations do not 
concern the Open Meeting Law, and we therefore decline to review them. See OML 2012-47. We hereby refer the 
complainant to the State Ethics Commission. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The January 29 Meeting 
The Committee held a meeting on January 29. During this meeting, the Committee 
discussed the scope of its own appointment authority in open session. The minutes read, in 
relevant part, as follows: 
[Committee member Emily Smith-Lee] opened the discussion with a brief 
overview of the Educational Reform Law, which limited School Committee supervision 
of hiring educational professionals. The positions requiring a vote by the School 
Committee are: school nurses, business manager, SPED administrator and truant officer. 
A vote on these positions is based on the recommendation of the Superintendent. 
Discussion included: 1) Does the law require [the Committee] to vote reappointments; 2) 
Does appointment also mean reappointment; [and] 3) what is the role of [the Committee] 
on reappointments... There was a lengthy discussion on the legal obligation of the School 
• Committee. 
Later in the meeting, Ms. Smith-Lee made a motion to enter executive session "for the 
discussion of negotiations with non-union personnel with the intent not to return to Open 
Session." 
The February 26 Meeting 
The Committee held a meeting on February 26. The meeting notice listed a proposed 
executive session "for discussion of legal matters." During the meeting, two Committee 
members motioned to adjourn to executive session "to discuss legal issues." The Committee did 
not state that holding this discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the 
Committee's litigating or bargaining position. Also on this date, the Superintendent of Sharon 
Public Schools began the process of renegotiating the contract with Mr. Kaplan. On March 6, 
the Superintendent presented Mr. Kaplan with a draft contract renewing Mr. Kaplan's 
employment for three years. 
The March 12 Meeting 
On March 12, the Committee met in open session. During this meeting, the Committee 
engaged in what the open session minutes describe as "a lengthy discussion" regarding the 
Committee's appointment authority and its responsibilities under the Open Meeting Law. At the 
end of the open session, two Committee members motioned to adjourn to executive session. The 
stated purpose, again, was "to discuss legal issues." 
The March 26 Meeting 
On March 26, the Committee met in open session. Immediately after convening, the 
following motion was made: 
"Moved to adjourn Open Session and enter into Executive Session for discussion 
of negotiation and/or renewal or nonrenewal of contracts with non-union personnel, and 
for legal matters with the intent to return to Open Session." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Prior to any vote on this motion, Committee member Laura Salomons stated that she did 
not believe it was appropriate to enter executive session. Ms. Salomons stated that she had been 
in contact with our office, and that she had received advice that an executive session pursuant to 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"), with notice to the staff member in question, was the 
appropriate track to take. The Committee then amended the motion to the following: 
"Move to enter into Executive Session to discuss terms, length and compensation 
of the agreements the Superintendent has created for the Business Manager, Truant 
Officer and Director of Student Services." 
This revised motion passed, and the Committee entered executive session. 
The April 9 Meeting 
Another meeting of the Committee was held on April 9. On that date, the Committee 
concluded a meeting in open session with the following motion: 
"Moved to adjourn Open Session and enter into Executive Session to discuss legal 
matters and to receive an update from the Superintendent on the contract discussions with 
the Director of Student Services and [other] personnel matters with the intent not to 
return to Open Session." 
To date, the Committee has taken no vote on the proposed three-year contract extension 
for Mr. Kaplan. Because Mr. Kaplan's contract expired on June 30, Mr. Kaplan's employment 
with Sharon Public Schools was automatically extended by one year, until June 2015, under the 
terms of his existing contract. At the end of that time period, Mr. Kaplan's employment with the 
School District will end. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be conducted in an open 
session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
"stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). "[A] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given to the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper." District Attornev for the Northern 
District v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009); OML 2011-30. 
Among the ten purposes for executive session is to "discuss the... discipline or dismissal 
of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). If a public body enters executive session 
under Purpose 1, the individual discussed in the session must be notified in writing by the public 
J Ms. Smith-Lee contacted us on February 26 and Ms. Salomons contacted us on March 13. In both cases, we 
suggested that the Committee member review our determination in OML 2013-184. There, we concluded that a 
public body could discuss professional competence in executive session where it was directly related to the 
consideration of contract renewal for a nonunion employee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
3 
===PAGE 4===
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session and must be afforded the following 
rights: to be present at the executive session during deliberations which involve that individual; 
to have counsel or a representative of his own choosing present and attending for the purpose of 
advising the individual and not for the purpose of active participation in the executive session; to 
speak on his own behalf; to cause an independent record to be created of the executive session by 
audio-recording or transcription, at the individual's expense; and to request that the session be 
open. Id 
Another permissible reason to hold an executive session is to "conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 
2"). Finally, a public body may enter executive session "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or 
otherwise demonstrably likely for this purpose to be applicable. See OML 2012-43; OML 2012-
5. 
I. The Committee's January 29 Executive Session was Held for a Proper Purpose. 
The complainant contends that the January 29 executive session was a pretext for the 
Committee discussing the scope of its legal power, as it had done during the open session of that 
same meeting. We find no evidence to support this allegation. While the executive session 
minutes have not been released, we note that the topics discussed during the executive session 
concern negotiations with non-union personnel, as stated. 
However, we also note that the Committee did not name, either on the meeting notice or 
in the motion to enter executive session, the non-union personnel with whom it would be 
negotiating.4 This information is required, unless its inclusion would defeat the purpose for the 
executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2013-139. Here, the Committee's legal 
counsel has acknowledged that this disclosure would not have compromised the need for 
secrecy, thus the names of the non-union personnel discussed should have been part of the notice 
given. Id, We take this opportunity to remind the Committee of its obligations under the Open 
Meeting Law. 
II. On February 26. the Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to 
Sufficiently State the Purpose for its Executive Session. 
Because the February 26 executive session minutes have not yet been released, we do not 
recount their contents in detail here. We note, though, that there is no general executive session 
purpose for the discussion of "legal issues." See OML 2012-98. After reviewing the minutes, 
we find that this executive session involved the discussion of an ongoing litigation matter and 
was, therefore, appropriate for closed-door discussion under Purpose 3. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21(a)(3). However, because the Committee failed to sufficiently state the purpose for the 
executive session and make the required statement of detrimental effect, we conclude that the 
4 The agenda listed an anticipated executive session "for the purpose of discussing strategy for negotiation with non­
union personnel." No further information was given. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. At a minimum, the Committee should have cited 
the relevant statutory purpose and stated that a discussion in open session would have a 
detrimental effect on the Committee's litigating position. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(3), 21(b)(3). 
III. On March 12, the Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Entering 
Executive Session without a Proper Purpose. However, the Committee did not 
Deliberate Outside of an Open Meeting. 
The March 12 executive session minutes have not been released. However, based on our 
in camera review, we find that the discussion that took place during this executive session did 
not fit into any of the ten permissible executive session purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
Instead, the Committee used this executive session to discuss the scope of its appointment 
authority, as it had done in open session during the January 29 meeting. The Committee argues 
that its concern regarding "potential exposure" to litigation involving the non-reappointment of 
candidates warranted the use of an executive session. We reiterate, however, that the use of a 
Purpose 3 executive session requires litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently 
threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See OML 2012-43; OML 2012-5. The Committee 
has not shown that litigation was threated or reasonably likely here. We therefore find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by entering executive session without a proper 
purpose, and we order the release of the March 12 executive session minutes. 
During the open session portion of the March 12 meeting, one of the Committee 
members said, "Let's just talk about the elephant in the room. We've spent all this time and had 
all this discussion about our authority to vote on these contracts when the reality is the question 
is whether we want to vote on a certain person or not. And we all know it's going to be a 3-3 
vote." This was seemingly a reference to Mr. Kaplan. The complaint alleges that this "elephant 
in the room" comment is evidence that the Committee members were deliberating on Mr. 
Kaplan's contract renewal outside of an open meeting. Mr. Kaplan's reappointment was 
discussed both in open session and executive session. The Committee denies that any 
deliberation took place outside of a meeting, and, absent any evidence to the contrary, we credit 
the Committee's account of the facts and find that no improper deliberation occurred. See OML 
2014-122; OML 2013-133. 
IV. The Committee's March 26 and April 9 Executive Sessions were Sufficiently 
Noticed and did not Violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The minutes from the March 26 and April 9 executive sessions have not been made 
public. The complainant alleges that, during these meetings, the Committee was either (i) 
addressing complaints against Mr. Kaplan, in which case he would be entitled to the protections 
afforded by Purpose 1; (ii) discussing Mr. Kaplan's professional competence, which must be 
done in open session; or (iii) receiving an update on Mr. Kaplan's negotiations with the 
Superintendent, which would not be appropriate for executive session. We find, however, that 
on these dates the Committee confined itself to the discussion of Mr. Kaplan's contract terms as 
negotiated by the Superintendent. Because the renewal of Mr. Kaplan's contract required the 
Committee's approval, it was proper for the Committee to convene in executive session to 
discuss the contract terms. To the extent that any other topics were discussed, they were factors 
to be considered in the negotiation of contract terms. See Way land, 444 Mass. at 568; OML 
2013-184; OML 2012-10; OML 2011-44. This did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we conclude that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
Furthermore, because the Committee failed to follow proper procedure in convening its February 
26 executive session, the Committee may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for 
continuing to withhold the minutes of that executive session. However, attorney-client privilege 
or one or more exemptions under the Public Record Law may allow the Committee to withhold 
the minutes, or a portion thereof, from disclosure. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Finally, because the 
March 12 executive session was not held for a proper purpose, we order the release to the public 
of those executive session minutes. The Committee may not redact or withhold these minutes or 
any portion thereof based on privilege or any exemption under the Public Records Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Mr. Steven Kaplan 
Margaret M. Pinkham, Esq. 
Sharon School Committee 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
6 