===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2014 
OML 2014-149 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from George Noel on October 1, alleging that the 
Billerica Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint specifically alleges that on August 12, the Board entered into an improper 
executive session to negotiate its contract with town counsel. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on September 3. The Board responded through counsel by letter dated September 
25. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering 
into executive session on August 12 to hold a discussion that should have occurred in open 
session. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the 
Board's response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the open 
session minutes of the Board's August 12 meeting, and the executive session minutes of that 
meeting, which the Board publicly released on September 22. 
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. On August 7, the Board posted notice for an August 
12 meeting. The notice listed two topics. The first was an open session vote to select town 
counsel. The second was an executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) to "1. Discuss 
negotiation strategies" and "2. Negotiate a contract with new Town Counsel." During the 
August 12 meeting, the Board voted to retain the law firm Kopelman and Paige, P.C. as town 
counsel. The Board then voted to enter into executive session for the reasons cited in the notice. 
According to the Board, interim town counsel advised the Board that it was appropriate to meet 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
in executive session to discuss and negotiate the services contract. During the executive session, 
the Board discussed its negotiation strategy, negotiated with Kopelman and Paige, P.C., and 
ultimately voted to approve a contract. The Board then returned to open session and announced 
the contract. 
During the Board's September 16 meeting, the Board discussed Mr. Noel's Open 
Meeting Law complaint. The Board voted to deny that it violated the Open Meeting Law, but 
nevertheless voted to publicly release the August 12 executive session minutes once approved by 
the Board. The Board publicly released its August 12 executive session minutes on September 
22. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 21(a). One purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session to "conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). Purpose 2 is limited in scope, and does not permit a public body to enter into 
executive session to discuss contracts other than union and non-union employee contracts, such 
as a vendor or services contract. 
During its August 12 executive session, the Board discussed its negotiating strategy and 
conducted negotiations with a law firm it was considering retaining to provide legal services. 
While a public body may have valid reasons for wishing to hold discussions behind closed doors 
when negotiating a services agreement, such as to protect its negotiating position, the Legislature 
carved out a limited set of circumstances that warrant private discussion. The Legislature did not 
include preparation for negotiation of services agreements as one of the limited purposes for 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, §21(a). Because the Board was not negotiating with an 
individual for employment or with a union, the Board should not have conducted its discussion 
in executive session. Its contract negotiation should have occurred in open session. 
We would normally order the Board to publicly release the August 12 executive session 
minutes. Because it released the minutes in response to the complaint, we find that the Board 
took appropriate remedial action. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session 
on August 12 to hold a discussion that should have occurred in open session. In addition to the 
action already taken by the Board to publicly release the August 12 executive session minutes, 
we order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
the Board that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation 
of the Law. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Billerica Board of Selectmen 
George Noel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L, c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 