===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 28, 2017 
OML 2017-131 
Kelli A. Robbins, Esq. 
Executive Secretary 
Town of Holland 
27 Sturbridge Road 
Holland, MA 01521 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Attorney Robbins: 
This office received a complaint from Andrew Harhay on May 22 alleging that the 
Holland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 28; and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 11} The complaint alleges that the Board held an 
improper emergency meeting on February 1. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
holding an emergency meeting on February 1. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices of the Board's January 17, January 31, 
and February 1 meetings, as well as the open session minutes from the Board's December 20, 
2016 and February 1 meetings. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on August 14.3 
We find the facts as follows. On January 12, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on January 17 at 7:00 P.M. The notice included the following topics; Minutes; Meetings 
with Board; Old Business, which included "Hampshire Power - electrical supply rate K," and 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public 
body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
"Invoice #6 - for PVPC FY 2013 Holland - Disaster Recovery Grant;" New Business, which 
included "Chapter 90 reimbursement forms to be signed" and "Signed warrants;" and 
Announcements. The Board received Invoice #6 around January 4 for work that had been 
completed in November 2016. The January 17 meeting was cancelled due to snow. 
On January 26, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on January 31 at 7:00 
P.M. The notice was almost identical to the January 17 notice and included the following topics: 
Minutes; Meetings with Board; Old Business, including "Hampshire Power - electrical supply 
rate K," and "Invoice #6 - for PVPC FY 2013 Holland - Disaster Recovery Grant;" New 
Business, including "Chapter 90 reimbursement forms to be signed" and "Signed warrants;" and 
Announcements. 
Around 5:30 P.M. on January 31, the Board cancelled the meeting for that night because 
of snow. At 5:45 P.M., the Board posted notice for an emergency meeting to be held the next 
day, February 1, at 6:00 P.M. The notice included: Minutes; "Old Business: Hampshire Power-
electrical supply rate K" and "Invoice # 6 - for PVPC FY 2013 Holland - Disaster Recovery 
Grant;" "New Business: Chapter 90 reimbursement forms to be signed, Sign Driveway permit. 
Website update, Signed warrants;" and Announcements. The Board was told by the Town 
Treasurer that if it did not sign the Chapter 90 reimbursement forms the Town would have to 
borrow money to replace the funds that had been expended the previous month. 
During the February 1 meeting, the Board first voted to "waive reading and approval of 
minutes as not critical." The Board then voted "to table all agenda items not of a financial 
emergency and to sign the critical documents." The Board signed Invoice #6 and two Chapter 
90 reimbursement forms. The Board made no announcements and the meeting was adjourned 
after fifteen minutes. 
On May 2, the Board voted to appoint Executive Secretary Kelli Robbins "as signatory" 
for all Chapter 90 reimbursement forms. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an 
emergency, "a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A "meeting" 
is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id For the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members of a public body. See G.L. c. 
3OA, § 18. An "emergency" is defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of 
circumstances demanding immediate action." Id. The burden of justifying the need for an 
emergency meeting lies with the public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6.4 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Board held an improper emergency meeting on February 
1. Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and require an 
immediate response. See OML 2016-70; OML 2011-45. The signing of the financial documents 
was not an unanticipated circumstance as the topics had been listed on the Board's agendas since 
January 17. However, the cancellation of both the January 17 and January 31 meetings due to 
inclement weather was unanticipated. Because all Board meetings scheduled in January had 
been cancelled, the Board felt that immediate action was required and that the signing of the 
financial documents could not wait 48 hours. During the February 1 emergency meeting, the 
only action taken by the Board was to sign Invoice #6 and two Chapter 90 reimbursement forms. 
All other topics listed on the agenda were tabled. It is our understanding that the Board has now 
designated Ms. Robbins to sign any Chapter 90 reimbursement forms so that the Board will not 
be placed in the same situation as it was here. We commend the Board for taking this action. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as the unexpected cancellation of 
two meetings required the Board to take immediate action. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by holding an emergency meeting on February 1. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Andrew Harhay 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action fded in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be fded in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
www.mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 