===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 27, 2017 
OML 2017-152 
Steven Wandland 
Administrator 
Charlton Water and Sewer Commission 
37 Main Street 
Charlton, MA 01507 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Wandland: 
This offiee received a complaint from Robert Lemansky on May 1, alleging that the 
Charlton Water and Sewer Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25,1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on March 22, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated April 4. The complaint alleges 
that the Commission improperly met on February 27 where the meeting location was changed 
within 48 hours of the meeting and the notice did not include a reason for the location change. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's 
response to the complaint, including several signed affidavits, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the original and revised notices of, and open 
session minutes from the Commission's February 27 meeting, as well as open session minutes 
from the Commission's March 27 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on 
September 14.2 
We find the facts as follows. On February 23, the Commission posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on Monday, February 27 at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed the location of the 
meeting as "Treatment Plant." The Commission is a five-member public body. The meeting 
room at the Treatment Plant can hold a maximum of ten people, including the Commissioners 
The room contains a table with six chairs with space for four additional folding chairs. Any 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
other individuals attending a meeting at the Treatment Plant would need to stand in the doorway 
or hallway. 
The February 27 notice included, among other topics, three 30-minute scheduled 
appointments with the Commission. During the morning of February 27, Water and Sewer 
Administrator Steven Wandland received notice that the scheduled appointments for the 
Commission meeting that evening would be arriving with several individuals, resulting in a 
larger than anticipated crowd. Mr. Wandland immediately contacted the Town Administrator's 
Office and was told that the Selectmen's meeting room in Town Hall was available. The 
Selectmen's meeting room can accommodate 50-60 people. 
At 10:45 A.M. on February 27, Mr. Wandland sent an email to all Commission members 
informing them that "Tonight's meeting moved to Town Hall Selectmen's Room." Mr. 
Wandland then posted a revised notice with the Town Clerk, which was also posted to the Town 
website.3 The revised notice indicated "Location Changed to Town Hall" with the room of the 
meeting to be "Selectmen's Meeting Room." The individuals specifically scheduled to appear 
before the Commission were also notified of the meeting location change. Finally, around 11 
A.M., Mr. Wandland and Administrative Assistant Norma Dietrich posted a 4X4 foot sign on a 
gate located at the Treatment Plant driveway advising that the Commission meeting that evening 
would be held at the Selectmen's meeting room in Town Hall. The sign remained on the gate for 
the entire day of February 27 and was still there the next morning when employees arrived at the 
Treatment Plant for work. 
The February 27 meeting was held as planned in the Selectmen's meeting room at Town 
Hall. One of the three scheduled appointments did not attend the meeting, for reasons not related 
to the location change. There were approximately 11 or 12 people at the Commission meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. Id. Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless 
an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Access to a meeting must 
include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-
189; OML 2012-66.4 
Public bodies must make reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual crowds. See 
OML 2016-54; OML 2012-66. We appreciate the difficulty a public body faces in anticipating 
3 Available at http://www.townofcharlton.net/minutes/2017/watersewer__agenda 022717.pdf 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
whether any given meeting will attract a crowd. However, when a public body learns in advance 
that a meeting is expected to draw a particularly large crowd, that body should make reasonable 
efforts to accommodate all people who wish to witness the discussion, either by moving the 
meeting to a larger space, if possible, or by streaming a live video broadcast outside of the 
meeting room. See OML 2016-111; OML 2015-92. 
The complaint alleges that the Commission improperly met on February 27 where the 
notice advised of a change of meeting location within 48 hours of the meeting but did not include 
a reason for the location change. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
provide justification for a change in its meeting location, simply that the public body post notice 
of every meeting and include the place of the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Here, Mr. 
Wandland received notice during the morning of February 27 that there would be a larger than 
anticipated crowd for the Commission meeting that evening. He immediately located a meeting 
room in Town Hall that would accommodate the larger crowd. A revised notice was posted with 
the Town Clerk, Commission members were notified, and a sign was erected at the Treatment 
Plant advising of the meeting location change. The complaint does not allege that any member 
of the public was actually mislead or confused by the February 27 meeting notice. See OML 
2016-77. Accordingly, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
where it provided the public with adequate notice of and access to the meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Lemansky 
Charlton Water and Sewer Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 