===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 2, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 165 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Adam J. Costa, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
adam@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Costa: 
 
This office received a complaint from Carl Luck on April 27, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Lunenburg Tax Investigation Team (the “Team”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Lunenburg Select Board (the “Board”), the 
parent body of the alleged subcommittee, on March 15, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated March 30. The complaint alleges that the Team is a subcommittee of the 
Board and that the Team has failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Team was a subcommittee of the Board and that it 
failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and video 
recordings of Board meetings held on January 17 and 24; February 7 and 21; March 7, 21, and 
28; and April 4.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint stems from an increase in the assessed 
values of lakefront properties in Lunenburg which in turn led to a significant increase in property 
taxes. On January 17, in response to this situation and outcry from the residents of Lunenburg, 
the Board held a three-and-a-half-hour-long meeting during which the Board, the Town 
Assessor, and the Board of Assessors heard from residents and answered their questions. After 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of the Board’s meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/@LunenburgAccess . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
an initial question and answer period, the Board discussed what action it might take, including 
the possibility of initiating an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the significant 
increase in property taxes. After discussion by the Board, the Chair moved as follows:  
 
As authorized by section 3- 2(e) of the Lunenburg Town Charter for the Select 
Board to conduct an investigation into the effects that Covid 19 had on property 
values in 2021, the corresponding impact on fiscal year 2023 tax assessments, and 
the process by which the Town of Lunenburg through its agents conducted property 
evaluations and distributed tax assessments to residents . The Chair of the Select 
Board will lead the investigation assisted by the Vice Chair and in coordination and 
collaboration with the Town Manager. 
 
The motion passed unanimously and the meeting ended after an additional hour of public 
comment.  
 
 Thereafter, the Chair, the Vice Chair, and the Town Manager initiated the investigation. 
Although the three performed many of their investigative duties separately and did not meet 
formally, they communicated informally regarding the investigation. Over the next several 
months, the Chair provided detailed updates about the progress of the investigation at various 
Board meetings. During these updates, the Board and the public asked questions about the 
investigation and about the tax abatement process that many residents were utilizing to address 
their large tax bills.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in a
 n emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that, unless lawfully convened in executive 
session, all meetings of a public body must be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Open 
Meeting Law defines “meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In turn, the Law defines 
“deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.” Id. Finally, public bodies must “create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee . . . however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to 
serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee includes a “multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Whether a 
public body created a subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our analysis hinges on the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
public body’s actio ns and whether it intended to create a multiple-member body. Compare, e.g., 
OML 2017-111 (finding that no subcommittee was created where a single volunteer was sought 
to work on a matter and another board member thereafter, on their own initiative, volunteered to 
assist), with OML 2018-23 (finding that a subcommittee was created where multiple volunteers 
were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals volunteered, the public body, by 
consensus, formally agreed to the arrangement).
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board “established a multi-member board for the public 
purpose of investigating the 2023 Tax Assessment process relative to valuation of the Lake Front 
Properties in Town” (the “Team”). The complaint further alleges that the Team did not post 
notice for its meetings or create and maintain meeting minutes.  
 
The Board asserts that it did not create a subcommittee when it voted to initiate an 
investigation, with its counsel stating that “neither acknowledging leadership by [the] Chair, nor 
assistance by the Vice Chair, nor ‘coordination and collaboration’ with the Town Manager, is the 
same or equivalent to an indication that the Select Board ‘intended to create a multiple-member 
body.’” The Board further asserts that the Chair, Vice Chair, and Town Manger did not operate 
as a subcommittee because they did not meet regularly and instead performed “their 
investigatory tasks independently, and communicat[ed] from time-to-time as necessary.”  
 
We appreciate that the Board may not have understo
 od that it was creating a 
subcommittee on January 17, and that as such the Board may not have literally intended to create 
a subcommittee. However, when the Board voted for the Board to conduct an investigation and 
to delegate the responsibility for carrying out the investigation to the Chair, Vice Chair, and 
Town Manager, the Board’s action created a subcommittee. See OML 2023-32; OML 2021-78; 
OML 2019-93; OML 2018-23. This conclusion comports with past guidance where we have 
explained that a public body appointing two members to carry out a task would create a 
subcommittee. See OML 2017-111. We additionally appreciate that the Chair, Vice Chair, and 
Town Manager genuinely believed that they did not constitute a subcommittee and that therefore 
their communications regarding the investigation did not constitute meetings held in violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. Nonetheless, based on the information before us we find that the Team 
was subject to the Open Meeting Law and that it failed to comply with the requirements of the 
Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Team was a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and that it failed to comply with the Law. If the Team is still extant, we order 
its immediate and future compliance with Open Meeting Law and caution that similar violations 
in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Due to the practical 
challenges of creating minutes for informal communications that occurred over the course of 
months, and because the Team periodically presented detailed updates on its work during public 
Board meetings (which were video recorded and are available online), including on April 4 when 
an approximately two-hour-long “Tax Assessment Investigation Workshop” was held during 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
which detailed information about the investigation was provided, we do not order further 
remedial action. We note that any emails exchanged between members of the Team concerning 
the investigation may be public records subject to disclosure under the Public Records Law, and 
we encourage the Team to proactively release to the public any such emails.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Team, the 
Board, or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chair, Lunenburg Select Board (via email: 
mjeffreys@lunenburgma.gov) 
 Tom Alonzo, Lunenburg Select Board (via email: talonzo@lunenburgma.gov) 
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager (via email: hlemieux@lunenburgma.gov) 
Kathryn Herrick, Town Clerk (via email: kherrick@lunenburgma.gov) 
Carl Luck (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
  
