===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www. mass .go v/ago 
May 30, 2017 
OML 2017-88 
Thomas Colomb, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Colomb: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Hootstein on March 31, alleging that 
the Amherst School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 
23, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 16. In his 
complaint, Mr. Hootstein alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated by email 
regarding an upcoming Town Meeting warrant article. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed emails sent and received by members of the Committee. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. Amherst Town Meeting is a representative body of 254 voting 
members, consisting of some elected and some, like all five Committee members, serving in 
an ex officio capacity. On January 30, the Town held a Special Town Meeting to consider a 
warrant article authorizing a bond necessary to proceed with a proposed plan to reorganize the 
elementary schools. The vote failed. The Committee had initially approved a plan to 
reorganize the elementary schools more than a year earlier, during its January 19, 2016 
meeting, and then voted to formally support the warrant article seeking funding for the project 
during its January 17 meeting. Leading up to the Special Town Meeting, three Committee 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
members—Anastasia Ordonez; Phoebe Hazzard; and Dr. Katherine Appy—were included in 
an email chain of approximately two dozen residents concerning the upcoming Town 
Meeting. Using their private email addresses, two Committee members sent emails to the 
group regarding the purchase of mailers and advertising space in the newspaper in support of 
the warrant article. 
On January 18, Ms. Ordonez sent an email to the group, stating, 
I just got a reduced price from Sunrise (they're amazing...) of $656 for the copies. 
This brings our total including mailing to about $1,140. As a reminder, the teachers' 
petition is being included in the packet so every Town Meeting member who receives 
it will see the names there. Will have some money left over.. .so perhaps we can raise 
a bit more and think about a quarter page ad? Can't fit all the names in it, but perhaps 
it can include a special message from teachers to TM members? 
The next day, in response to an email regarding the submission of an advertisement to 
a local newspaper, Ms. Ordonez wrote, "Yes, I [plan] to hand deliver my ad and payment, in 
addition to emailing the camera ready PDF file!" That same day, Ms. Hazzard sent an email 
regarding a website for raising funds to pay for advertising, writing, "FYI, just tried to make 
another donation and it said there was a problem and the organizer needs to sign in. Emailed 
John." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members 
of the public body. Id. 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated by email regarding 
an upcoming Town Meeting warrant article which sought funding for a school building 
project. The communications at issue concerned raising funds and publishing an 
advertisement in support of the warrant article. We find that the content of these 
communications were political in nature and did not affect matters directly before the 
Committee. While the Committee had approved the project and had formally supported the 
warrant article, it did not have authority over the financial appropriations for the project. See 
2 
===PAGE 3===
OML 2014-14; OML 2012-64.2 That decision was made by Town Meeting. Statements 
made by public body members for political purposes that do not concern matters presently or 
likely to come under consideration by the public body are not communications on public 
business within the jurisdiction of the public body, and we therefore do not consider such 
communications to constitute deliberation. See OML 2014-135. Accordingly, we find that 
no improper deliberation took place. See OML 2016-134; OML 2016-119; OML 2016-22. 
Recognizing that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether communication constitutes 
deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, our office cautions public bodies on the use of 
listservs and other social media. See AGO FAQ on Deliberation and Electronic 
Communication.3 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Michael Hootstein 
Amherst School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 Available at http://www.mass.gov/ago/government-resources/open-meeting-law/oml-faqs/. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
/i , 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 