===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKXEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 1, 2014 
OML 2014-90 
Mark Boudreau, Esq. 
Boudreau & Boudreau, LLP 
396 North Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Boudreau: 
This office received a complaint from Amy Kates dated May 7, 2014, alleging that the 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during the Committee's July 
30, 2013 executive session, the Committee; 1) discussed contract negotiations while the non-
union employee whose contract was under consideration was not present; 2) discussed matters 
not appropriate for the executive session; and 3) discussed the complainant without providing 
her with notice and the opportunity to be present. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about February 6, 2014, and you' responded on behalf of the Committee by 
letter dated April 11, 2014." 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters that were not appropriate for executive session on July 30, 2013. The 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the remaining allegations. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the February 6, 2014 complaint filed with the 
Committee; the Committee's April 11, 2014 response; and the May 7, 2014 complaint filed 
with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice for and executive session minutes of the 
Committee's July 30, 2013 meeting. Finally, we interviewed former Committee Chair 
Richard Barry by telephone on June 24, 2014. 
1 For the purpose of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
2 We remind the Committee that unless our office grants an extension of time, it must respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days of receipt. 940 CMR 29,05(5). If the Committee requires 
additional time to resolve the complaint, it may obtain an extension from the Attorney General by submitting a 
written request within 14 business days after receiving the complaint. 940 CMR 29.05(5)(b). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On July 30, 2013, the Committee voted to enter into 
executive session to "conduct a strategy session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel." During the executive session that followed, the Committee reviewed an email 
sent by the Assistant Town Treasurer, Kristen Waugaman, to her supervisor. In the email, 
Ms. Waugaman declared her intention to resign her position, citing alleged harassment and 
slander by the complainant. Amy Kates, as the basis for her resignation. The Committee had 
invited Ms. Waugaman to attend this meeting, but she declined. After reviewing the email, 
the Committee discussed whether it should attempt to persuade Ms. Waugaman to withdraw 
her resignation. The Committee voted unanimously to accept the resignation, noting that it 
was the second time Ms. Waugaman had submitted her resignation and "the members had no 
confidence that [Ms.] Kates would cease her activity." The Committee did not engage in any 
substantive discussion about Ms. Kates, but merely cited her alleged activity as a reason for 
its acceptance of Ms. Waugaman's resignation. 
The Committee then discussed the details to be included in an advertisement seeking a 
replacement for Ms. Waugaman. The Committee also discussed the salary, hours, and 
location for this position. Finally, the Committee voted unanimously to place an 
advertisement for the position in The Cape Cod Times. 
The Committee publicly released its July 30, 2013 executive session minutes on or 
about January 30, 2014. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Discussing Topics Not 
Appropriate for the Cited Executive Session Purpose. 
The Open Meeting Law permits a public body to enter into executive session for any 
of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One purpose for executive session is to 
"conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to 
conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). The Committee cited Purpose 2 as the basis for its July 
30, 2013 executive session. Once in executive session, however, the Committee did not 
discuss contract negotiations. Instead, the Committee discussed whether to accept Ms. 
Waugaman's resignation and discussed the process for finding her replacement. Neither topic 
was appropriate for discussion under Purpose 2, and the latter topic was not appropriate for 
3 We remind the Committee that when entering into executive session to discuss non-union personnel contracts, 
the Committee must identify the specific non-union personnel with whom the Committee is negotiating. See 
OML 2014-50; OML 2011-56. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's 
website, www.mass.aov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
executive session under any purpose.4 See OML 2013-155; OML 2012-11. We therefore 
find that the Committee violated the law by discussing these matters behind closed doors. 
2. The Committee did not Violate Ms. Kates' Rights while in Executive Session. 
The complainant also alleges that the Committee violated the law by not providing her 
with notice and an opportunity to be present during a discussion of complaints or charges 
against her. The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to enter into executive session to 
discuss "the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health.. .of an individual.. .or 
to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public 
officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(l)("Purpose 1"). If a 
public body discusses an individual for this purpose, the individual being discussed must be 
afforded certain rights, including written notice of the executive session and the right to be 
present during deliberations which involve that individual. Id. 
During its July 30, 2013 executive session, the Committee discussed Ms. Waugaman's 
resignation letter. In deciding to accept Ms. Waugaman's resignation, the Committee noted 
Ms. Kates' alleged activity as a reason for its decision to accept the resignation. The 
Committee did not engage in a substantive discussion about the allegations against Ms. Kates, 
however. Rather, the individual at the heart of the discussion was Ms. Waugaman. We 
therefore find that, even if the Committee had cited Purpose 1 as the basis for this executive 
session (which it did not), the Committee's discussion was not of the sort that would require 
notice to Ms. Kates. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
3. The Committee did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Meeting in Executive 
Session without Ms. Waugaman Present. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee's July 30, 2013 executive session 
was improper because the Committee met without Ms. Waugaman present. Purpose 1 is the 
only executive session purpose that requires that an individual who is the subject of the 
discussion be given notice and an opportunity to attend. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The 
Committee did not cite Purpose 1 as the basis for its executive session, however. The purpose 
that it did cite. Purpose 2, carries no such requirement. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
Furthermore, we note that the Committee did provide Ms. Waugaman with notice of the 
executive session, but she declined to attend. For all of these reasons, we find this allegation 
is without merit. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing matters that 
were not appropriate under the cited executive session purpose. The Committee did not 
4 We note that the discussion about whether to accept Ms. Waugaman's resignation may have been appropriate 
under another executive session purpose that covers discussion of "the discipline or dismissal of. ..an employee," 
however the Committee did not cite this purpose. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
O J 
===PAGE 4===
violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session without Ms. Waugaman 
present or by not providing Ms. Kates with notice and the opportunity to be present. The 
Committee has already released to the public the minutes from the executive session at issue. 
We therefore order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Law, and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of 
the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
Amy Kates 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 