===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 26, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 202 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Allison Valton, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite 1F 
Millis, MA 02054  
allison@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Valton: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jeffrey Allard on behalf of Black Fang Trust on 
May 23, 2025,
1 alleging that the Monson Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
April 27, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 23. The complaint 
alleges that at some point prior to the Board’s April 24 meeting a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a meeting regarding the Complainant’s request for a variance.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed video recordings of 
Board meetings held on March 27 and April 24.3 Finally, we communicated with the 
Complainant via email. 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 This determination only examines whether the Board complied with the Open Meeting Law.  To the extent the 
complaint raises allegations of bias and discrimination, such allegations may be brought to the Massachusetts 
Commission Against Discrimination. 
3 Recordings of Board meetings may be found at https://m-
pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=76.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint arises from the Complainant’s request 
to the Board for a variance for a sign and stone wall.  
  
The Board held a meeting on March 27 during which a public hearing was held to 
consider the Complainant’s request for a variance. In attendance at the meeting, among others, 
were the contractor who installed the sign at issue and the Complainant’s attorney. The 
Complainant was unable to attend the March 27 meeting. During the meeting, the Board 
discussed the Complainant’s request for a variance, hearing from the contractor and the 
Complainant’s attorney, asking questions, and sharing Board members’ thoughts. The Board 
explained that it had received communications from the Massachusetts Department of 
Transportation (“DOT”), which owned property on which the stone wall was encroaching, and 
the Town’s Building Commissioner, noting that each had objected to the variance. The Board 
further discussed procedural issues with the sign and request for a variance where the sign had 
been erected without the Complainant having first obtained a permit. Toward the end of the 
discussion, the Chair of the Board indicated that he was skeptical of granting the variance but 
noted that he wanted to consider the arguments raised in the meeting that evening and gather 
additional information. Thereafter, with agreement of the Complainant’s attorney, the Board 
continued the hearing.  
 
The Board next held a meeting on April 24. In attendance at the April 24 meeting, among 
others, were the Complainant, his attorney, and the contractor. When the Board reached the 
matter of the Complainant’s request for a variance, the Chair explained that the public comment 
portion of the hearing had been closed. Thereafter, the Chair explained that since the previous 
meeting he had visited the site of the sign to take measurements, had reread the relevant bylaw, 
and had discussed the matter with the Building Commissioner. The Chair then recounted the 
measurements of the sign and requirements of the bylaw, noting that the sign does not comply 
with the bylaw and so would require a variance to stand. The Chair also noted that neighbors had 
expressed support for granting the variance, but that others had objected, including the Building 
Commissioner and DOT. The Complainant then spoke asserting that DOT had indicated to him 
that it had no objection to the variance. The Chair interrupted the Complainant to explain that the 
public comment portion of the public hearing was closed and that the members of the Board 
were discussing the matter.  
 
Thereafter, the Chair summarized some additional information and discussed again the 
problem of the sign having been erected without a permit being obtained first, noting 
additionally that because a permit had not been sought with enough time prior to the public 
hearing, the only matter before the Board was the variance, not the permit. The Chair then 
proposed denying the variance because the sign was erected without a permit, infringes 
substantially on the bylaw, and a portion of it encroaches on DOT’s property. After this 
discussion, the Complainant and his attorney were allowed to address the Board at some length. 
Following this, a member of the Board explained that he believed the variance should be granted 
and provided his reasoning for this. At one point the Chair noted that only four of five Board 
members were present that evening and offered to the Complainant the option of continuing the 
matter to a future meeting where five members would be present, noting that it would take four 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
members to grant the variance. In response, the Complainant’s attorney explained that they did 
not wish to wait and that they would instead accept the loss that evening and then file a lawsuit. 
Ultimately, the Board voted three to one to deny the variance.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that all 
deliberations of a public body occur during a properly noticed meeting that, unless lawfully 
convened in executive session, is open to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21.  
 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board must have improperly deliberated 
between the Board’s March 27 and April 24 meetings because “a gentleman citizen who attends 
many meetings” informed the Complainant that three members of the Board had already decided 
to deny the variance at the request of DOT.
4 The Complainant further asserts that 
communications he had with DOT indicated that DOT did not object to the variance. Finally, in 
the Complainant’s estimation, the Board had previously signaled support for the variance but had 
“abruptly” changed its stance “without any substantial discussion” during the April 24 meeting. 
In response, the Board denies that it deliberated outside of a meeting and explains that between 
the March 27 and April 24 meetings, members independently conducted site visits of the sign.  
 
We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding 
deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a 
complaint’s allegations. See, e.g., OML 2024-108; OML 2024-91; OML 2024-14; OML 2023-
242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59.5 We find that the Complainant has not presented evidence 
beyond speculation and conjecture sufficient to support an allegation that the Board deliberated 
outside of a meeting regarding the variance. Furthermore, after reviewing video recordings of the 
March 27 and April 24 meetings, we disagree with the Complainant’s characterization that the 
Board had indicated support for the variance but then “abruptly” changed its stance “without any 
substantial discussion.”  
 
  
 
4 In response to a request from our office, the Complainant was unable to identify the individual he alleges told him 
three members of the Board “had decided that this variance would be denied at the request of the Mass DOT .” 
Additionally, this statement on its own does not indicate that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of meeting, 
especially where, during the Board’s March 27 open session meeting, the Board noted that it had received an 
objection to the variance from DOT and Board members expressed doubt about granting the variance.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Monson Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Jennifer L. Wolowicz, Town Administrator  
(via email: jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov)  
 Mary F. Watson, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
Jeffrey Allard (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
