===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
September 16, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 147 
 
 
Kathleen Sullivan 
City Clerk 
City of Newburyport 
60 Pleasant Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
 
By email only: KSullivan@newburyportma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Sullivan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Walt Thompson on May 15, 2025, alleging that the 
Newburyport City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about May 3, 2025, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Council, by email dated May 15, 2025.  The 
complaint alleges that the Council discussed certain individuals in executive session under 
Purpose 1 without providing those individuals with notice or giving them an opportunity to be 
present during a meeting held on May 1, 2025. 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate  the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and executive session minutes of the Council 
meeting held on May 1, 2025.
   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have vot
ed to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94.1   
 
One permissible reason to convene in execu
 tive session is to “discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”).  G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (a)(1).  
When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual 
who is the subject of discussion has the right to receive written notice of the proposed executive 
session at least 48 hours in advance, to be present during the executive session deliberations, to 
have counsel present to advise him or her, to speak on his or her own behalf, and to cause an 
independent record of the executive session to be created at his or her own expense.  Id.  
 
During a meeting held on May 1, 2025, the Council convened in executive session under 
Purpose 1 “To discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual – 
Library Investigation.”
2  The Council has not publicly released the minutes of the executive 
session, and therefore we do not recount their content in detail here.  However, we note that the 
Council discussed complaints against the Mayor, the Mayor’s former Chief of Staff, and the 
Human Resources Director whose actions or lack thereof led to an investigation into the 
Newburyport Public Library. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Council improperly discussed library staff and 
volunteers in the May 1, 2025, executive session without notifying them and giving them an 
opportunity to be present.  Here, the Council convened in executive session to discuss the results 
of an investigation into complaints against the Mayor, the Mayor’s former Chief of Staff, and the 
Human Resources Director involving the library.  We have previously concluded that where a 
public body discusses an individual who is incidental to a Purpose 1 executive session discussion 
and who is not the subject of the discussion, the public body is not required to provide that 
person with notice and the opportunity to participate in the executive session.
3  See OML 2014-
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
2 The Open Meeting Law requires that, prior to convening in executive session, a majority of members of the public 
body vote by roll to go into executive session and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered 
into the minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  The Open Meeting Law further requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits 
used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  We note that the minutes of the executive session meeting held on May 1 do not include a 
record of the vote to convene in executive session, nor does it appear that the Council created separate minutes of 
the open session portion of the May 1 meeting.  We remind the Council of its obligations under the Law.  
3 We also note that an individual who files a complaint does not have a right to be present in or receive notice of a 
Purpose 1 executive session but may attend at the discretion of the public body.  See  OML 2013-50.  We understand 
that certain library volunteers filed the initial complaints.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
90; OML 2013-52.  After reviewing the executive session minutes, we find that library staff and 
volunteers were incidental to the discussions about the three Town employees who were the 
subject of the executive session discussions.  Therefore, because library staff and volunteers 
were not the subject of the executive session discussions, they were not entitled to be present 
during the executive sessions, and the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not 
giving them individual notice of the May 1, 2025, meeting. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Walt Thompson – By email only:   
 Newburyport City Council – By email only: CityCouncil@newburyportma.gov  
 Newburyport City Clerk – By email only: Clerk@newburyportma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
