===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASH_BURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 4, 2011 
OML 2011 - 16 
Steven J. Correia 
Chairman 
Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
Dear Mr. Correia, 
Our office has reviewed a complaint by Mr. George Harris, dated January 31, 2011, 
alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, by the Wayland Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board "met to 
conduct a public forum on December 7, 2010 but failed to file advance notice thereof with the 
town clerk and failed to create and maintain minutes of the meeting." The complaint was 
initially filed with the Board on or about January 5, 2011. We received the Board's response to 
the initial complaint dated January 18, 2011. 
Our office reviewed the January 5, 2011 and January 31, 2011 complaints, as well as the 
Board's January 18, 2011 response. We also reviewed a video recording of the December 7, 
2010 public forum, which is available to the public on Wayland's Public Cable Access Station's 
website at www.waycam.tv,  and reviewed an undated email from Town Administrator Fred 
Turkington to Linda Segal written in response to Ms. Segal's December 14, 2010 Public Records 
Request directed to the Board. Finally, we reviewed the meeting notice for the Wayland 
Recreation Commission for its December 7, 2010 meeting. 
We find that the December 7, 2010 public forum constituted a meeting of the Board of 
Selectmen, and that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a meeting notice 
and failing to record and approve minutes of the meeting. However, we note that the Board and 
the Town did take steps to ensure the forum was well-advertised to the public, and consider this 
to be a mitigating factor. 
FACTS 
On December 7, 2010, the Town of Wayland hosted a public forum that, according to the 
===PAGE 2===
Board's January 18, 2011 complaint response, "was a gathering of interested citizens offering 
statements and opinions on potential future development of the Loker Conservation and 
Recreation Area." A meeting notice was posted for the forum as a meeting of the Wayland 
Recreation Commission. The meeting notice included three topics: 
7:00 pm — Public Forum on Loker Recreation/Conservation Area 
8:30 pm — Recreation Commission meets to vote bills, payroll, minutes 
8:45 pm — new business' 
No meeting notice was posted for any other public body. A notice for the forum was 
posted to the Town's website at least two weeks before the forum, a press release was issued to 
media outlets, and a notice was distributed to certain "interested citizens," according to an 
undated email sent by Town Administrator Fred Turkington. According to the same email, the 
public forum "was co-sponsored by the Board of Selectmen, the Conservation Commission and 
the Recreation Commission." However, in the Board's response to the complaint, the Board 
states that it "was not meeting jointly with the Recreation Commission." 
At the forum on December 7, 2010, the video recording shows that the meeting was 
moderated by Board Chair Steven Correia. Facing the audience was a podium and table. Seated 
at the table as a panel were Board members Steven Correia, Joseph Nolan and Thomas Fay, as 
well as the members of the Recreation Commission and one member of the Conservation 
Commission. The three Board members sat next to each other. The Board of Selectmen consists 
of five members. The forum consisted of comments from the public and discussion amongst the 
panel members in response. At several points during the forum, members of the Board spoke 
and could be seen on video addressing each other regarding the subject matter of the forum. 
Prior to the forum, the Loker Recreation area was the subject of a number of proposals by 
citizen groups and residents. Proposals included developing a baseball/softball field, an athletic 
center and a community center. The Board discussed the property at its April 12, 2010 meeting 
when, according to the minutes, the Board considered a proposed Town Meeting warrant article 
to transfer and lease the Loker Recreation area and "discussed the fmancial impact to the town 
and noted the project needs to be fmancially viable and not cause the town any liability." The 
Town also engaged an attorney on April 23, 2010 to advise as to whether the property was safe 
for recreational, commercial or municipal use given its history of environmental contamination. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post a notice of any meeting at least 48 
hours prior to such meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For meetings of a local public body, "notice 
shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located," unless the 
municipality has adopted an alternative method for posting notices, such as posting to a website. 
I  Although not a subject raised by this complaint, we note that "new business" is not a sufficiently specific topic for 
a meeting notice of a public body. We remind the Recreation Commission to be attentive to the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law, specifically, that meeting notices must contain "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting," and that "[t]he list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Id. at § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03. A meeting is defined as "a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." Id. at §18. Deliberation is defined in 
relevant part as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. Attendance by a quorum of one public body at a meeting of another public 
body that has complied with the notice requirements of the open meeting law does not constitute 
a meeting, provided that "the visiting members communicate only by open participation in the 
meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate." Id. 
Here, a "meeting" of the Board occurred because a quorum of the Board was present at 
the forum and the quorum engaged in deliberation with respect to matters within the Board's 
jurisdiction. A quorum is measured as a simple majority of the Board members. G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. The Board consists of five members and three were present, thus this requirement was met. 
The Board deliberated when Board members seated at the panel table addressed comments from 
the public, communicating between and among the quorum in the process. The Board contests, 
however, that it has jurisdiction over the specific piece of property that was the subject of the 
forum. We disagree. The Board previously discussed transferring ownership of the property at 
its April 12, 2010 meeting, and engaged an attorney on April 23, 2010 to advise as to whether 
the property was safe for recreational, commercial or municipal use given a history of 
environmental contamination. As the Town's executive authority, the Board has broad 
jurisdiction over matters of policy in the Town. Thus, many of the issues discussed at the forum 
relating to the property, such as implementation and funding for any proposed development of 
the property, were within its jurisdiction. For example, proposals offered prior to the forum 
included developing an athletic center and a community center at the Loker Recreation area. If 
the Town chose to pursue one of these proposals, the Board would oversee the development and 
funding as the executive authority for the Town. The fact that the Board co-sponsored the forum 
also suggests that it had a policy interest in the subject matter. 
The Board argues that, while it co-hosted the forum, it was not participating in a joint 
meeting with the Recreation Commission. In support of this position, the Board cites the 
exception to the defmition of meeting which states that a "meeting" shall not include "attendance 
by a quorum of a public body at a meeting of another public body that complied with the notice 
requirement of the open meeting law, so long as the visiting members communicate only by open 
participation in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not 
deliberate."  (emphasis added). Here, the Board deliberated by sitting together as a quorum at the 
front table facing the audience and addressing issues raised by members of the public that were 
within the jurisdiction of the Board. At times, Board members addressed each other directly and 
responded to comments made by other Board members. Had the Board members participated 
merely as individual audience members, this exception to the definition of meeting likely would 
have applied. When members of a public body attend a meeting or forum of another public body 
and participate as members of the public, communicating openly and not between or among a 
quorum of the public body, such communications do not constitute deliberation. A sub-quorum 
of the Board also could have participated in the panel, and addressed one another directly, 
without deliberation occurring, provided that the sub-quorum was not acting as a subcommittee. 
However, on the facts before us, it appears that the communications between a quorum of the 
Board went beyond the "open participation" contemplated by the exception, and therefore 
constituted a meeting of the Board. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerel 
Given that Board members' participation in the forum constituted a meeting of the Board, 
the Board was required to provide notice of the meeting 48 hours ahead of the forum. We 
acknowledge that the Board did take significant measures to ensure that the public was aware of 
the forum, including posting a notice on the Town website, sending advisories to the press, and 
sending notices to interested and active members of the community. Nevertheless, the Board 
failed to post a notice sufficient under the Open Meeting Law that the Board itself would be 
meeting during the forum. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to post a notice for its 
December 7, 2010 meeting, and by failing to create and approve minutes from that meeting. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. We additionally order the 
Board to create and approve accurate minutes from the December 7, 2010 meeting. If minutes of 
the meeting were already taken by the Recreation Commission, the Board may review and adopt 
a copy of those minutes, as it was functionally a joint meeting of the two bodies. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. This letter does not 
resolve any other complaints which may have been filed with our office or the Board. Please 
contact me if you have any questions. 
I6nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel 
4 