===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 22, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 52 
 
 
Jeffrey T. Blake, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Blake: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joseph Graveline on January 4, 2022, alleging that 
the Northfield Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 30, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 22.  The complaint alleges that the minutes of 
the Board meeting held on February 18 are inaccurate and insufficiently detailed.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, the original and revised open session minutes of the 
Board meeting held on February 18, the notice and minutes of the Board meeting held on 
November 18, as well as video recordings of the Board meetings held on February 18 and 
November 18.2  We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in one respect with 
regard to the accuracy of the minutes but otherwise find the minutes to be sufficiently detailed.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021.  
2 Video recordings of the Board meetings held on February 18 and November 18 are available at: 
https://www.northfieldma.gov/planning-board/pages/planning-board-zoom-meeting-links. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.3  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
During a February 18 meeting, which lasted four hours, the Board held three public 
hearings for three different solar array projects on Pine Meadow Road in the Town of Northfield.  
On October 4, this office issued a determination, OML 2021-137, finding that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient detail in the minutes of the February 18 
meeting.  Specifically, we found that, although the minutes summarized each question that 
members of the Board or the public asked with respect to each solar array project, the minutes 
did not include any summary of the answers that were provided.  Thus, we ordered the Board to 
revise the meeting minutes.  During a November 18 meeting, the Board reviewed and approved 
revised minutes of the February 18 meeting, which included responses to the questions asked by 
members of the Board or the public. 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the February 18 meeting are still insufficient as 
they fail to identify the specific Board members who spoke, though the minutes summarize their 
opinions.  We find that the level of detail the complainant requests is not required in order to 
understand the Board’s discussions.  See OML 2021-174.  The minutes do not need to identify 
each speaker, so long as a member of the public can read the minutes and understand from the 
summary the nature of the discussion and how the public body arrived at its decisions.  See OML 
2012-41.  Thus, we find that the minutes are sufficiently detailed in this respect. 
 
However, we find that the minutes are inaccurate where they list Board member Tammy 
Pelletier as present during the February 18 meeting.  We note that the draft minutes accurately 
reflected the members present and absent but the approved minutes list Ms. Pelletier as present, 
when in fact she was absent from this meeting.4 
 
Finally, although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note that the final vote to 
adjourn the meeting was not conducted by roll call.  Because four members participated remotely 
during the February 18 meeting, all votes taken during the meeting should have been conducted 
by roll call.  See 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c) (“[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in which a member 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 The complaint also seems to allege that Board member Meg Riordan left the meeting at some point, but this fact 
was not captured in the minutes.  The Open meeting Law regulations state that if “technical difficulties result in a 
remote participant being disconnected from the meeting, that fact and the time at which the disconnection occurred 
shall be noted in the meeting minutes.”  See 940 CMR 29.10(6)(d).  From our review of the video of the February 18 
meeting, it does not appear that Ms. Riordan became disconnected because of a technical difficulty; rather, she 
stepped away from the meeting approximately ten minutes prior to the Board’s adjournment.  The Open Meeting 
Law contains no express requirement that the minutes record a member’s departure from a meeting for reasons other 
than technical difficulties. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
participates remotely must be by roll call vote”).  Here, the Board failed to conduct the motion to 
adjourn by roll call and we remind the Board of its obligations under the law.   
   
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to accurately record the members present or absent in the minutes of its February 18 
meeting.  We order the Board to amend the minutes of the February 18 meeting to accurately 
reflect the members who were present or absent and to certify to this office within thirty (30) 
days of the date of this letter that it has done so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We also order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joseph Graveline – By email only:  
Northfield Planning Board c/o Chair Steve Seredynski – By email only: 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
