===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 5, 2017 
OML 2017-2 
Christopher Quinn, Vice Chair 
Sherborn Board of Health 
19 Washington Street 
Sherborn, MA 01770 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Quinn: 
This office received a complaint from Robert Murchison, dated August 8, alleging that 
the Sherborn Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 7, and the Board responded by 
letter dated July 22. In his complaint, Mr. Murchison alleges that the Board failed to list an 
anticipated discussion topic on a meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. Finally, we spoke with Board Vice Chair 
Christopher Quinn and Board Administrator Ellen Hartnett by telephone on December 20. 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns the construction of a septic system 
on property abutting the complainant's property. Beginning in April, the complainant 
corresponded with the Board chair by e-mail raising concerns about the proposed septic system 
at Lot 69F Lake Street. 
On May 11, the Board received an e-mail from an engineer concerning the septic project. 
This e-mail sought an opinion on whether a Soil Absorption Plan concerning the Lake Street 
property had been substantially changed. On this same date, the Board Administrator referred 
this matter to the Health Agent, who was handling the application for the property at issue. 
On May 12, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on May 18. This notice did 
not include mention of the Lake Street property, although it did list the topic, "Any items not 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48-hours in advance of the meeting." On May 17, the Health 
Agent informed the Board Administrator by e-mail that any change in the Soil Absorption Plan 
was minor. The Board convened its May 18 meeting as planned. During the portion of the 
meeting reserved for unanticipated items, the Board Administrator informed the Board of the 
Health Agent's opinion on the Soil Absorption Plan. 
A public body must post notice of all meetings at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
"listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics with "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b); OML 
2014-47.2 While public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was 
not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we encourage public bodies to 
postpone discussion of such topics until proper notice can be given to the public. See OML 
2013-87; OML 2013-13. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the discussion concerning the Lake Street property 
should have been included on the Board's May 17 meeting notice. As evidence, the complaint 
points to the e-mail discussions with the Board chair concerning the property. However, there is 
no evidence before us showing that the chair anticipated discussing the Lake Street property at 
this particular meeting. The question regarding the Soil Absorption Plan was handled by the 
Health Agent and the Board Administrator with no input from the Board members. The Board's 
response states that the Board chair did not anticipate the Lake Street property being discussed 
during the May 17 meeting. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body's 
account of the facts. See OML 2013-174; OML 2011-44. Accordingly, we find that the Board 
chair did not anticipate discussing this matter during the May 17 meeting, and that the Board did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Robert Murchison 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 