===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 16, 2017 
OML 2017-175 
John Clifford, Esq. 
Clifford & Kenny, LLP 
31 Schoosett Street, Suite 405 
Pembroke, MA 02359 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Clifford; 
This office received a complaint from Susan Munford on September 5, alleging that 
the Kingston Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 8, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 24. In her 
complaint, Ms. Munford alleges that the Board failed to respond to a request for executive 
session minutes and continues to improperly withhold those minutes from the public. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely review and respond to a request for executive session minutes. We find no 
violation, however, for the Board's continued nondisclosure of those requested minutes. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the complainant's request for minutes, as well as the Board's September 15, 2016 
executive session minutes at issue. 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is a member of the Board and a former 
police sergeant in town. On September 15, 2016, the Board convened an executive session to 
discuss discipline against the complainant. The complainant was present during this meeting 
and, as a result of the executive session, was placed on paid administrative leave for 30 days. 
Subsequently, the Board held a separate hearing in open session (at the complainant's request) 
on an unrelated issue. Following this hearing, the Board terminated the complainant's 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
employment with the Town on April 25, 2017. The complainant appealed both the 
suspension and termination to an arbitrator.2 Those appeals have since been combined and 
remain pending before the arbitrator. 
By way of background, on May 31, the complainant submitted a request to the Board 
for its September 15, 2016 executive session minutes. The town administrator responded on 
June 8, declining to provide the minutes because they had not yet been approved by the 
Board. Having received no further response from the Board, the complainant submitted 
another request to the town clerk on July 6 for a copy of the minutes, which the town clerk 
forwarded to the Board. The Board did not review the request during a meeting or respond to 
the request. In its response to this complaint, the Board asserts that the requested minutes 
continue to remain confidential pending the outcome of the arbitration. The Board has since 
provided the complainant with a copy of the minutes, though they have not been released to 
the public. 
DISCUSSION 
Executive session minutes and the notes, recordings or other materials used in the 
preparation of such minutes may be withheld from disclosure so long as public release may 
defeat the lawful purpose for the executive session, but no longer, provided that the executive 
session at issue was held in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f); 
OML 2012-115.3 When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the 
minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless the 
attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. Id The burden 
of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. 
Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee. 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body or a designee has determined, prior to the request, 
that certain executive session minutes may be released, it should respond to the requester 
directly, notifying him or her of the availability of those minutes. See OML 2013-105; OML 
2013-99. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform 
such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 
30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body 
must still respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting 
this review. See OML 2013-99. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to respond to her July 6 request for the 
September 15, 2016 executive session minutes. We agree. The Board failed to acknowledge 
the complainant's request and failed to conduct the requisite review to determine whether 
2 The complainant appealed the 30-day suspension on October 21, 2016, and the termination on April 25. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass, gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
disclosure of the requested minutes was warranted under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(2). Accordingly, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that the Board continues to improperly withhold 
the September 15, 2016 executive session minutes from the public. Lhe complainant 
contends that the Board subsequently terminated her and that, during the termination hearing 
conducted in open session, disclosed many of the facts discussed during the prior disciplinary 
hearing. The Board maintains that, although the subsequent hearing was held in open session 
at the complainant's request, the outcomes of both hearings were appealed and remain 
pending before an arbitrator. Where the purpose of the executive session is primarily to 
protect the privacy of the person who is the subject of the executive session discussion, and 
that person requests the public disclosure of the minutes, the burden on the public body to 
justify nondisclosure of minutes grows. Nevertheless, we find that, because the basis for the 
complainant's suspension remains pending before an arbitrator, the pmpose for the Board's 
confidentiality in resolving an employment matter has not yet concluded. See OML 2017-
143; OML 2015-62. Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
continuing to withhold the minutes from the public. We further note that the Board has since 
provided a copy of the minutes to the complainant. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely review and respond to a request for executive session minutes. We order 
the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Susan Munford 
Kingston Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 