===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HRAI.RY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
My 21, 2015 
OML 2015-96 
John Barrett, Esq. 
City Solicitor 
166 Boulder Dr. Suite 108 
Fitchburg, MA 01420 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Barrett; 
This office received a complaint from Mr. John McCarthy dated June 15, alleging that 
Councilor Marcus DiNatale of the Fitchburg City Council (the "Council") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on 
April 24, and the Council responded by letter dated May 6. In his complaint, Mr. McCarthy 
alleges that Councilor DiNatale sent an e-mail to a quorum of the Council expressing his opinion 
on a matter within the Council's jurisdiction. 
Following our review, we find that the e-mail sent by Councilor DiNatale to his fellow 
council members constituted an individual violation of the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the e-mail at issue; the Council's response to 
the complaint; and the request for further review filed with our office. 
We find the facts as follows. The Fitchburg City Council is a thirteen-member public 
body that meets at regular intervals to discuss the governance of the City of Fitchburg (the 
"City"). During the time period at issue, the Council was debating the potential privatization of 
the City's information technology ("IT") staff. On March 30, Councilor DiNatale sent an e-mail 
to seven members of the Council. The e-mail states, in full: 
"To All, I read the Saturday Sentinel article about IT's 'taxing' time managing the 
systems for the city. As you know, I outright reject Trevor's excuse that lack of 
manpower and funding is why two full-time people cannot handle 180 terminals and 
routine website maintenance. So I went and spoke with my own company's IT 
department, which consists of two full-time employees as well. Preliminary figures they 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
gave me: they oversee 120+ terminals, 60+ cell phones, and get on average per month 
100-150 service requests that need immediate attention. This does not include server 
maintenance, software/hardware upgrades off-site support to other divisions within the 
company, and laptops for people both located in Fitchburg and off-site. Their opinion to 
me is two full-time IT people is more than enough to handle what they have on their 
plate, and did state that they are not familiar with the City of Fitchburg's 
software/hardware needs. However, it is clear with just one example I provided that the 
real reason IT is struggling is not manpower or funding, and you can deduce from that 
what I mean as to the real reason. - Marcus" 
No Council members responded to this e-mail. The Council met on June 23. During this 
meeting, the Council voted against privatizing the City's IT staff. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is intended to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined in relevant part as "a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. C.30A, § 18. The law 
defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting material or the 
distribution of reports of documents that may be discussed at a provided that no opinion 
of a member is expressed." Id (emphasis added). Expression of an opinion on matters within a 
body's jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body 
member responds. See OML 2014-148; OML 2013-29; OML 2013-27; OML 2012-15.2 
Here, we find that Councilor DiNatale's e-mail violated the Open Meeting Law. This 
communication was sent to a quorum of the Council, and it expressed Councilor DiNatale's 
opinion on an issue within the Council's jurisdiction. Councilor DiNatale argues that the e-mail 
was not deliberation, as the e-mail was a "report" to be considered at an upcoming meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law specifies that such distribution of a report is to be 
done without the expression of an opinion by a public body member. Id, Councilor DiNatale's 
email offered opinions, including the following: "I outright reject Trevor's argument. [...] it is 
clear with just one example I provided that the real reason IT is struggling is not manpower or 
funding [...]" Communication of such opinion to a quorum of the Council outside of a meeting 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-148. Because no Council members responded 
to Councilor DiNatale's e-mail, we find that the violation was an individual one, rather than a 
violation by the Council as a whole. Id. Further, we note that Council President Stephan Hay has 
spoken with all Council members to ensure that opinions are not sent by e-mail in the future. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find Councilor DiNatale individually violated the Open 
Meeting Law. We order Councilor DiNatale's immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. John McCarthy 
Fitchburg City Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 