===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
July 21, 2015 
OML 2015-99 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
Lown Counsel 
Lown of Wayland 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lanza: 
This office received two related complaints, from Mr. George H. Harris and Mr. Richard 
K. Lodge, alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Mr. Harris' original complaint was filed with the 
Committee on September 15, 2014, and, after two extensions of time were granted, the 
Committee responded by letter dated October 21, 2014. Mr. Hams then filed his complaint with 
our office on October 28, 2014. Mr. Lodge's complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on November 24, 2014, and, after an extension of time was granted, the Committee responded by 
letter dated December 16, 2014. Mr. Lodge then filed his complaint with our office on January 
14, 2015. Mr. Harris' complaint alleges that the Committee: (i) improperly withheld executive 
session minutes from release; and (ii) held an executive session for an improper purpose. Mr. 
Lodge's complaint alleges that the Committee improperly redacted certain executive session 
meeting minutes. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.1 Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Committee's responses; and the requests 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, unredacted executive 
1 Beginning on December 23, 2014, for Mr. Hams' complaint, and on February 3, 2015, for Mr. Lodge's complaint, 
our office made repeated requests to the Board's legal counsel for information and documentation necessary to 
resolve this matter. Counsel ultimately provided the requested documentation to our office on May 5, 2015. We 
remind the Board and its counsel that "[u]pon notification of an investigation, any person, public body or other state, 
regional, county, municipal or other governmental official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall 
make all information necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c, 30A, § 
24(a). Failure to comply with such a request from our office may be considered a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2014-54. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
session minutes of the following Committee meetings: January 6, 9, 13, 21, and 27, 2014; 
February 3 and 6, 2014; and March 24, 2014. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body that oversees 
matters related to the school system in the Town of Wayland (the "Town"). At issue are several 
meetings during which the Committee convened in executive session to discuss the alleged 
embezzlement of funds from the state-sponsored Metropolitan Council for Educational 
Opportunity ("METCO") program by a School Department employee. 
The Committee met on January 6, 9, and 13, 2014. During these three meetings, the 
Committee entered executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The Committee did 
not give notice to the individual discussed during those executive sessions and did not give the 
individual the opportunity to be present. The Committee also met on January 21, 27, and 
February 3, 2014. During these meetings, the Committee entered executive session pursuant to 
"M.G.L. 30A, § 21(a)(7) under Chapter 214 § IB (right to privacy) because of confidential 
information as received from our auditor, as well as to review the information related to the 
METCO account and to discuss which authorities to pursue to resolve the METCO accounts." 
The Committee met again on February 6, 2014, and convened in executive session pursuant to 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(5). Finally, on March 24, 2014, the Committee met in executive session to 
discuss "Investigation of Charges of Criminal Misconduct." The Committee cited G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(2) to justify this executive session. While we reserve some facts for discussion below, we 
note that the majority of these executive sessions were used to discuss the referral of the METCO 
matter to various government entities. 
On August 4, 2014, Mr, Hams requested minutes of the Committee's January 21 and 27, 
2014 executive session meetings. Committee Chair Ellen Grieco responded by letter dated 
September 4, 2014, stating that the Committee would not release the minutes because 
"publication of them will defeat the lawful purpose of the executive session." On September 15, 
2014, Mr. Hanis filed an Open Meeting Law complaint against the Committee. Chair Grieco 
responded to that complaint by stating that the Committee was "[ajcting on the advice of Town 
Counsel" in withholding the minutes from the two executive sessions. 
On October 22, 2014, Mr. Lodge filed a public records request with the Committee for all 
meeting minutes related to the METCO matter. On November 18, 2014, Chair Grieco responded 
by providing redacted versions of minutes for meetings held on the following dates: January 6, 9, 
13, 21, and 27, 2014; February 3, 6, and 24, 2014; and March 24, 2014. The redacted 
discussions concerned the METCO matter. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described in as much detail as possible without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See District Attorney for 
the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise 
2 
===PAGE 3===
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the 
only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the 
only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One reason for a permissible executive session is, "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The individual to 
be discussed in a Puipose 1 executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at 
least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The individual must also be afforded 
the right to be present during the deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on 
his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right 
to have an independent record of that meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id. 
Another permissible reason to convene in executive session is, "[t]o conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). Public bodies may also convene in executive session, "[t]o investigate charges of 
criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of criminal complaints." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(5) 
("Purpose 5"). An executive session convened pursuant to Purpose 5 involves the conversations 
that would precede the formal criminal process in court. See Attornev General's Open Meeting 
Law Guide, at 10-11, available at http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. Unlike with an 
executive session held pursuant to Puipose 1, a public body does not need to notify the subject of 
an executive session held pursuant to Purpose 5 that he or she will be discussed. Id 
Finally, a public body may convene in executive session, "[t]o comply with, or act under 
the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. BOA, § 
21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body entering executive session under Purpose 7 must state the 
specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations confidential, unless doing so 
would defeat the lawful puipose for secrecy. See District Attornev for the N. Dist.. 455 Mass. at 
569. 
I. On Several Occasions, the Committee Cited the Incorrect Statutory Purpose 
When Convening in Executive Session. 
While we conclude that the Committee had a valid statutory basis for holding discussions 
in executive session on the dates discussed below, in all cases the Committee failed to cite the 
correct puipose prior to entering executive session. This failure violated the Open Meeting Law, 
as it did not give the public proper notice of what would be discussed behind closed doors. See 
District Attornev for N. Dist.. 455 Mass. at 567. 
On January 6, 9, and 13, 2014, the Committee met and entered executive session pursuant 
to Purpose 1. The minutes for these executive session meetings have not been publicly released, 
thus we do not recount their contents. However, we note that, in all cases, the Committee 
discussed the referral of a matter involving the mishandling of public funds to law enforcement. 
While this topic may have been appropriate for closed door discussion pursuant to Puipose 1, 
provided proper procedures were followed, these discussions also were appropriate for executive 
session pursuant to Puipose 5. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(5). Thus, although the Committee failed to 
3 
===PAGE 4===
follow proper procedure for holding a Purpose 1 executive session, the topic discussed was 
nevertheless of the sort that is permissible in executive session. 
On January 21, 27, and February 3, 2014, the Committee met and entered executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 7 in order to comply with G.L. c. 214, § IB, which proscribes the 
"disclosure of facts about an individual that are of a highly personal or intimate nature when 
there exists no legitimate, countervailing interest." Bratt v. International Business Machs. Corp.. 
392 Mass. 508, 518 (1984). The use of Purpose 7 here was inappropriate. The Committee 
convened the executive session meetings at issue here to discuss allegations against a public 
employee concerning the mishandling of public funds. While the Committee had an interest in 
protecting the privacy of the individual discussed during these executive sessions, the law 
requires disclosure where a "legitimate, countervailing interest" exists. Id. Here, we conclude 
that the protection of the public fisc and possible criminal activity by a public employee in the 
scope of employment are such legitimate, countervailing interests, and the Committee was 
therefore incorrect to rely on the statutory right to privacy in holding these discussions in 
executive session.2 While Puipose 7 was not an appropriate basis for these executive sessions, as 
with the meeting dates discussed above, the discussions that took place on January 21, 27, and 
February 3, 2014 pursuant to Puipose 7 concerned the referral of a matter to law enforcement, 
thus we find they were also appropriate for executive session under Puipose 5. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(5). 
On March 24, 2014, the Committee met and entered executive session pursuant to 
Puipose 2. We find that this error was caused by the mistaken belief that Puipose 2, which 
concerns nonunion employee contracts, applied to the anticipated discussion. When entering 
executive session, the puipose given was to discuss the investigation of criminal charges. We 
note that this is not an appropriate discussion topic under Puipose 2. While we do not disclose 
the contents of unreleased executive session minutes, we note that the discussion concerned a 
public records request for documents relating to the METCO matter. A public body may enter 
executive session under Puipose 7, to "act under the authority" of the Public Records Law if it is 
discussing whether to release a document that it may lawfully withhold. See OML 2015-88; 
OML 2012-104. Accordingly, we find that this discussion was appropriate under Purpose 7, in 
order to comply with the Public Records Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7); G.L. c. 4, § 7, Clause 
26. 
II. The Committee's February 6. 2014 Executive Session Did Not Violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
At the February 6, 2014 meeting, the Committee entered executive session pursuant to 
Puipose 5. The conversation that took place during this executive session concerned the referral 
of a matter for potential criminal investigation. We understand from conversation with the 
Committee's counsel that the investigation is still ongoing, and that the Committee is 
periodically assisting investigators in their work. Accordingly, we find that the executive session 
2 In a previous determination, issued on April 28, 2014, we stated to the Committee that citing Purpose 7 in 
conjunction with the statutory right to privacy is inappropriate for discussions where legitimate, countervailing 
interests in disclosure exist. See OML 2014-42. Because these violations occurred before that determination was 
issued, we do not find that the Committee intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law. See 940 CMR 29.02 
(defining "Intentional Violation"). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
on this date was convened for a proper purpose and that these minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure at this time. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(5). 
III. With the Exception of the February 6, 2014 Meeting, the Committee May Not 
Rely on the Open Meeting Law to Withhold the Executive Session Minutes at 
Issue from Disclosure. 
Mr. Lodge's complaint alleges that the Committee acted improperly when it redacted 
certain portions of the executive session minutes at issue. The minutes of an executive session 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful 
purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f); OML 2014-97; OML 2014-17. Because 
the Committee did not follow proper procedure in convening the executive sessions held on 
January 6, 9, 13, 21, and 27, 2014, and February 3, 2014, the Committee may not rely on the 
Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold the minutes of those executive 
sessions. However, the attorney-client privilege or one or more exemptions under the Public 
Records Law may allow the Committee to withhold the minutes, or a portion thereof, from 
disclosure. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f). Because the February 6, 2014 executive session was held 
in compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and because we find that the statutory purpose for 
secrecy still applies, we find that the Committee may continue to withhold or redact those 
minutes. Id. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
we caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We also order the Committee to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training 
video on executive sessions.3 The Committee shall certify in writing to the Division of Open 
Government, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, that is has complied with this order. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. George H. Harris 
The video, labeled Video #4: Executive Sessions, may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Richard K. Lodge 
Wayland School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 