===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.inass.gov/ago 
June 15,2017 
OML 2017-96 
Michael Lennox, Chair 
North Attleborough Board of Selectmen 
43 South Washington Street 
North Attleborough, MA 02760 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Lennox; 
This office received a complaint from Michael P. Gould, Sr. on May 19, alleging that the 
North Attleborough Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 13, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 24. In his complaint, Mr. Gould alleges that the Board failed to 
follow proper procedure in responding to three Open Meeting Law complaints. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of 
Board meetings held on February 2 and 16, Finally, we spoke with Board member John Rhyno 
by telephone on June 2. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. This complaint concerns three previous Open Meeting Law 
complaints received by the Board on January 19 and 27, and February 13, The Board held a 
meeting on February 2, during which it discussed the January 19 and 27 complaints. Draft 
minutes for this meeting state that "[a]fter much discussion" the Board voted unanimously to 
direct Town Administrator Mike Gallagher to meet with legal counsel to craft responses to the 
two complaints. 
The Board held a meeting on February 16, during which it discussed the February 13 
complaint. Board member Anne Lonzo made a motion to refer the matter to the town 
administrator so legal counsel could draft a response, and to allow the chair to sign the response 
on behalf of the Board. Some Board members expressed concerns about allowing the chair to 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
sign a response on the Board's behalf without giving the Board an opportunity to discuss and 
vote on the response after its completion. Board member John Rhyno said he would oppose a 
letter being sent with his name on it without having the opportunity to review it, and Ms. Lonzo 
requested that the Board have the chance to vote on any letter with a signature on it prior to its 
issuance. Ms. Lonzo ultimately voted in favor of the motion to delegate the task of responding 
to the town administrator and legal counsel. Mr. Rhyno voted against the motion, and another 
Board member abstained. Lhe Board voted 3-1-1 to refer the complaint to the town 
administrator and legal counsel, and to allow the chair to sign the reply on behalf of the Board. 
Open Meeting Law complaints must be filed with a public body within 30 days of an 
alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Lhe public body must then respond 
to the complaint within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Lhe chair 
must disseminate copies of all complaints to members of the public body and before responding 
must "meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that 
authority." See OML 2012-90.2 Lhe public body must review an Open Meeting Law complaint 
before authorizing an individual to respond on its behalf. See OML 2014-74. 
Lhe complaint contends that the Board failed to follow proper procedure in responding to 
the three Open Meeting Law complaints because the Board failed to sufficiently discuss the 
merits of the complaints and the substance of its responses. Regarding the January 19 and 
January 27 complaints, the Board delegated the responses to legal counsel and the town 
administrator during the February 2 meeting in two unanimous votes. Regarding the February 
13 complaint, the Board voted 3-1-1 during the February 16 meeting to delegate the response to 
legal counsel and the town administrator. Under the Open Meeting Law, the Board is permitted 
to meet to delegate the responsibility for responding to complaints. See OML 2012-90. 
Lherefore, the Board's procedure complied with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, and we 
find no violation. See OML 2017-6. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Lhis 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
SilWM-elv 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
lis f2S 
cc: Michael Gould, Sr. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 