===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 22, 2022 
OML 2022 – 118 
VIA E-MAIL 
Christine Lindberg  
Town Administrator 
Town of Ashby 
tadministrator@ashbyma.gov 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Lindberg: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on November 17, 2021, alleging 
that the Ashby Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 7, 2021, and Interim
Town Administrator Chief Mike Bussell responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated
October 19, 2021.  The complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide minutes of an
executive session held on September 10, 2021, at which the Board discussed terminating the
employment of the town’s former town administrator and paying the former town administrator a
designated sum to work in an advisory capacity to assist in the transition.
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review.  We also corresponded with the Interim Town 
Administrator, the current Town Administrator, and the complainant on several occasions in 
efforts to resolve this matter.  Following our review, and as explained in email correspondence to 
the complainant on November 16 and 18, 2021, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  All open and executive session meeting 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  When 
the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure.  See id.   
 
 The Board convened in executive session in accordance with General Laws Chapter 30A, 
section 21(a)1 (“Purpose 1”) on September 10, 2021, to discuss complaints or charges against or 
the discipline or dismissal of a staff member, namely, the prior Town Administrator.  The 
complaint does not challenge the propriety of the executive session, only the Board’s refusal to 
provide the executive session minutes shortly after the meeting.  After reviewing the executive 
session meeting minutes at issue, and discussing the matter with Interim Town Administrator 
Chief Bussell to further understand the nature of the executive session discussions, we 
conclude—as we explained in email correspondence on November 16 and 18, 2021—that the 
purpose for the September 10, 2021, executive session was still ongoing at the time the Open 
Meeting Law complaint was filed, and the Board permissibly withheld the executive session 
meeting minutes.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Nonetheless, we continued to follow up with the Board in early 2022 to monitor the 
status of the matter discussed in executive session and to facilitate the release of the executive 
session minutes once the purpose for the executive session had concluded.  In the spring of 2022 
the Board publicly posted minutes of the September 7, 2021, executive session, and in April 
2022 amended the minutes to add sufficient detail regarding the discussions.  On May 4, 2022, 
we informed the complainant that the minutes had been amended and were available online.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee – By email only:  
Ashby Select Board c/o Dave Nadeau, Chair – By email only: dnadeau@ashbyma.gov  
 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 