===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 7, 2024  
OML 2024 – 112 
VIA EMAIL 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
lgoldberg@k-plaw.com 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received a complaint from Brian Keaney on April 19, 2024, alleging that the 
Dedham Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint originally was filed with the Board on March 26.1  You responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated April 22. 2  The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it failed to respond to a request for executive session minutes made on 
February 14.  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, as alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.   
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows.  On February 14, the complainant requested certain minutes 
of executive sessions held by the Board.  The Board did not respond to the request.  On March 
12, the Town Manager informed the complainant that the Board has resumed the periodic review 
of executive session minutes.  The complainant asked for an update on his request but did not 
receive a response. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 The Board filed its response 18 business days after receiving the complaint, and only after our office inquired 
about the status of the response.  We remind the Board of its obligation to meet to review and respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension 
granted by our office.  See G.L. c. 3OA, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Law further states that “[m]inutes 
of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner,” while requiring that 
minutes of executive sessions be “review[ed]” “at reasonable intervals” to determine whether 
continued nondisclosure is warranted.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).  See also 
Swansea Board of Selectmen v. Attorney General, Civil Action No. 2173CV00906 (Bristol Sup. 
Ct. December 27, 2023); OML 2024-37; OML 2024-29.3 
 
Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate.  See OML 2020-101; OML 
2019-45; OML 2017-104.  Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law requires that: 
 
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session 
or any portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days 
following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption 
under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body has not performed a 
review [to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted], the public 
body shall perform the review and release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion 
thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. 
A public body shall not assess a fee for the time spent in its review. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
 
The public body has until the earlier of 30 days or its next meeting to review and release 
nonexempt minutes in response to a request for executive session minutes.  However, it still must 
provide an initial response to the requester within 10 days, notifying the requester that it is 
conducting the review.  See OML 2024-24; OML 2013-99.4  The Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it failed to respond to the complainant’s request for executive session 
minutes within 10 days of his request.   
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 The Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-
meeting-law#frequently-asked-questions-about-executive-session-minutes- , also provides guidance on responding 
to a request for executive session minutes: 
 
What process must public bodies follow for reviewing executive session minutes in response to a 
request for minutes? 
. . . [I]f the public body receives a request for executive session meeting minutes, it must respond to the 
request within 10 days and release any minutes or portions thereof that have already been approved for 
public release.  If the requested minutes or portions thereof have not been approved for release, the public 
body must review those minutes and release “the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than 
the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Regardless, it must 
provide an initial response within 10 days of the request. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Although the Board does not explicitly deny that it violated the Open Meeting Law, it 
asserts that recordings of meetings, available on community television, “are considered minutes 
of the meetings until such time as formal minutes are prepared and approved.”  We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that neither recordings nor transcripts may substitute for 
minutes.  A public body must adhere to the timelines which the Open Meeting Law requires for 
the creation, approval, review and release of meeting minutes, regardless of whether a recording 
is available to the public. 
 
In the time since the complaint was filed, the Board has approved several sets of minutes 
of both open sessions and executive sessions.  We commend the Board for this progress, and for 
its pledge to comply with the Open Meeting Law.5  However, many of the Board’s prospective 
commitments echo promises it made in response to a complaint filed with the Board on April 20, 
2021.  Fulfillment of the promises made three years ago has been uneven.  We do not consider 
whether the Board’s violations here were intentional, as the complainant has not requested such a 
finding.  However, the Board is reminded that an intentional violation may be found where the 
public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been 
advised by the Attorney General that the conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2024-4; OML 2023-198; OML 2017-109.   A finding that a violation was intentional may result 
in a fine of up to $1,000.  940 CMR 29.07(3)(d). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to respond to the complainant’s request for executive session minutes.  We order  
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.6  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to 
contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
  
 
5We note that it is the Open Meeting Law, not the Board’s “goals with regard to timeliness” that must govern the 
Board’s creation and release of minutes.  
6The complainant requests as a remedy that the Board maintain a chart with the status of minutes on its website, and 
that minutes be posted online.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to post meeting minutes, or a 
chart as requested by the complainant, to a municipal website.  See OML 2024-82; OML 2015-173; OML 2013-117.  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
cc: Brian Keaney (via email: ) 
 Dedham Selectboard (via email: selectboard@dedham-ma.gov)  
Town Manager (via email: lgoodwin@dedham-ma.gov)  
  
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
 
