===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 188 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lauren F. Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
LGoldberg@k-plaw.com  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
 
This letter resolves two complaints to our office, one filed by Michael Offner and the 
other filed by Lonna Steinberg, both received on May 30, 2024,
1 alleging that the Amherst Town 
Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, in connection 
with a meeting held on March 4, 2024.  The complaints were originally filed with the Council on 
March 6, 2024.  You responded, on behalf of the Council, on March 26.  Both complaints pertain 
to the Council’s March 4 meeting at which the Council considered the “Amherst Resolution for a 
Ceasefire in Gaza” (hereafter, “Resolution”).  Both complaints allege that the Council’s Chair 
adjourned the March 4 meeting, and extensive discussion continued thereafter culminating in a 
vote on the Resolution.  The Steinberg complaint also alleges that members of the public 
repeatedly spoke without permission and disrupted the meeting discussions.  We will address the 
allegations of the two complaints collectively. 
   
At the outset, we emphasize that the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority 
is to enforce the Open Meeting Law.  We acknowledge concerns raised by the complainants, 
members of the public, and some Councilors that some members of the public made antisemitic, 
hateful, and/or inflammatory comments during the public comment period and at other times 
during the March 4 meeting; that some members of the public jeered or laughed at comments 
made by other speakers, creating a hostile and intimidating environment; that certain members of 
the public were treated less favorably than those who supported the Resolution; and that some 
members of the public intimidated Councilors into changing their votes regarding the Resolution.  
The Division of Open Government’s review is limited to alleged violations of the specific 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law and we make no findings as to the other concerns raised.2  
We also express no views as to the political issues that were discussed during the March 4 
meeting and take no position on the merits of the Resolution that was the focus of the meeting. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law during its meeting on 
March 4.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints; the 
Council’s response, and the requests for further review of the complaints.  We reviewed the 
notices and video recordings
3 of the Council’s March 4 and March 13 meetings.  We also 
reviewed correspondence from the complainants, the Council’s attorney,4 and members of the 
public as well as media reports regarding the March 4 meeting and we spoke with several 
individuals who attended or watched the March 4 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows.  The Council posted notice for a meeting to take place 
on March 4 at 6:30 PM in the Amherst Regional Middle School Auditorium.  The notice 
indicated the public could also attend the meeting via Zoom and noted that the meeting would be 
broadcast live on Channel 9, Amherst Media’s cable access channel.  The notice included, 
among others, the following topic: 
 
6. Resolutions and Proclamations  
…  
b. Amherst Resolution for a Ceasefire in Gaza  
1) Governance, Organization, and Legislation Committee Report  
2) Council Discussion  
3) Motion and Vote 
 
The Amherst Resolution for a Ceasefire in Gaza (the “Resolution”) was sponsored by 
three out of 13 Councilors
5 and 760 Amherst residents.  The meeting was convened as scheduled 
with 12 Councilors participating in the meeting in person and one Councilor participating 
remotely.  At the start of the meeting, Chair Lynn Griesemer announced that there would be a 
period of public comment during which members of the public could voice their opinions on the 
Resolution.  Council President Griesemer stated that comments were protected by the First 
Amendment, the comments were not reflective of the opinions of the Council, and that the 
Council would not engage in dialogue.  Council President Griesemer asked for public comment 
to be made in a “peaceable manner,” for audience members to respect each other, and to refrain 
from audibly reacting after other individuals speak.  
 
 
2 Complainant Offner also filed related complaints with the Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division regarding the 
Council’s March 4 meeting, alleging, among other things, violations of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal 
Protection Clause of the United States Constitution.   
3 Amherst Media’s recording of its livestream of the March 4 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOKklh8URwM and the Town of Amherst’s recording of the March 4 meeting 
is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qR2guUAYtr8; we reviewed both.    
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 The Resolution was sponsored by Councilors Patricia De Angelis, Ellisha Walker, and Mandi Jo Hanneke.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Public comment on the Resolution continued for two hours in accordance with a Council 
Rule that limits public comment to 120 minutes, after which time the Council voted unanimously 
to extend the public comment period.  An additional hour of public comment occurred.  On 
multiple occasions throughout public comment, members of the audience in attendance at the 
meeting reacted audibly to comments that were made by other speakers, including interrupting 
speakers while they were speaking, sometimes to convey approval and sometimes to convey 
disapproval of what the speakers were saying.  Overall, the public comment period was relatively 
orderly; Council President Griesemer and the Council did not respond to comments or 
substantively engage with speakers during the public comment period and consistently enforced 
a two-minute time limit per speaker.   
 
Numerous times throughout the meeting, both during public comment and during the 
Council’s subsequent discussion of the Resolution, Council President Griesemer reminded 
attendees that interruptions and audible reactions were not acceptable and that if members of the 
public in attendance at the meeting could not be silent the meeting would need to end.   
 
After public comment concluded, Councilor De Angelis, one of the Resolution’s 
sponsors, introduced the Resolution; Council President Griesemer allowed time for Councilors, 
who were reviewing amendments to the Resolution for the first time, to review the Resolution.  
After brief discussion among Council members, Councilor Hanneke, another sponsor, noted that 
the Councilor sponsors would like Councilors, “as a courtesy,” to conduct only an up or down 
vote on the Resolution as drafted, without submitting amendments.  Councilor Hanneke 
requested that any amendments to the Resolution be presented in a different proposal.  Some 
Councilors expressed concern with the proposition and stated that it was not standard practice to 
refuse amendments.  A brief discussion between Councilors ensued.  Councilor Steinberg and 
Councilor Ryan expressed concerns that the Resolution vote was rushed.  Members of the public 
shouted in opposition to the stated concerns of the Resolution vote being rushed.  On another 
occasion, a large portion of the audience clapped and cheered in support of Councilor Devlin 
Gauthier’s comments supporting the Resolution; Councilor Devlin Gauthier responded, “Please, 
please, stop stop...she [Council President Griesemer] will gavel you…I appreciate the 
support…but we’ve got it in our rules that you can’t show auditory, audible signs of support.”  
Council President Griesemer stated, “do not make me do this, please.”  The Councilors 
continued to discuss the Resolution and the vote.  
 
Subsequently, because the Resolution provided that a copy would be sent to certain 
federal elected officials, Councilor Taub sought an amendment to specify that the Resolution in 
the Wake of the Hamas Attack on Israel, which the Council had passed on October 16, 2023, 
would also be sent to those officials.  Additional discussion by the Council ensued regarding the 
manner in which the Resolution and certain late amendments had been presented to the Council; 
members of the public shouted and called out comments.  Ultimately, Councilor Taub’s motion 
to enclose the previous resolution for context passed unanimously.  
 
Councilor Andrew Steinberg then stated that he wished to propose amendments to the 
“Whereas” clauses within the Resolution that he thought would strengthen the Resolution to 
allow for broad support by the entire Council and community.  Councilor Steinberg also stated 
that the atmosphere in the meeting was becoming uncomfortable; various members of the public 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
shouted over Councilor Steinberg.  Council President Griesemer silenced the audience.  
Councilor Steinberg moved to add the following language to the Resolution: 
 
“Whereas, Hamas positioned its military assets in Gaza such that many Gaza residents 
are in harm’s way; and Whereas, fighting continues on both sides with Hamas firing 
rockets into Israel, Israel attacking Hamas, and noncombatant citizens of Gaza and 
Israel displaced from their homes, injured and killed.”  
 
The motion was seconded, and Councilor Steinberg further spoke to his amendments. 
During the Council’s discussion, various members of the public shouted comments and Council 
President Griesemer warned that if the audience was not silent, she would have to end the 
meeting.  Nine Councilors voted in favor of Councilor Steinberg’s amendment and four voted in 
opposition.  After the motion passed, many members of the public loudly protested, shouting 
“shame!”  Council President Griesemer banged the gavel.  A Councilor asked the public to stop 
but the shouting continued.  Council President Griesemer interrupted the audience and stated that 
the Council had the right to debate and amend resolutions.  The shouting subsided, although 
members of the public continued to call out comments at the Council.  
 
The Council proceeded to consider the original Resolution with the Steinberg 
amendments.  Councilor De Angelis introduced a motion to remove the names of the Council 
and community sponsors from the Resolution, stating “this is no longer our resolution.”  
Members of the public cheered loudly, and the motion was seconded.  The Council briefly 
discussed procedural requirements.  Discussion also ensued between the Councilors who wished 
to have their names removed and those who rejected the assertion that the Steinberg amendments 
stripped the Resolution of its purpose.  Councilor Ryan remarked, “I think we’ve been trying to 
find some middle ground.”  Members of the public shouted over Councilor Ryan with apparent 
disapproval, and Council President Griesemer again silenced the audience.  The Council 
continued discussion and members of the public continued to yell out comments.  Council 
President Griesemer forcefully banged the gavel and ordered the public to stop.   
 
Councilor Rooney then spoke, stating, among other things, that the phrases added by the 
Steinberg amendments did not diminish the force of the Resolution and were as factually true as 
any of the other statements.  Members of the public called out and shouted over Councilor 
Rooney for nearly the entire duration of Councilor Rooney’s comments.  Councilor De Angelis 
silenced the crowd, saying “please, I am in as much pain, and I have as much anger as you, but I 
need you to be quiet…please if you need to stick your fingers up, down, sideways…but keep it 
silent. Thank you.”  Councilor Walker then spoke in support of the Resolution and in opposition 
to the amendments, stating the amendments “water[] down and tak[e] away the central focus of 
the Resolution” and compromise the goal of the Resolution, which was to uplift and center 
Palestinian residents.  Members of the public clapped or snapped their fingers in support.  
Councilor Schoen then asked if there would be a Resolution at all if the sponsors withdrew.  
Council President Griesemer responded in the negative, and Councilor Schoen noted the recent 
turn of events was unfortunate.  Council President Griesemer introduced the motion to remove 
the sponsors.  The Council voted unanimously to remove the Council and community sponsors.  
Council President Griesemer then announced, “we are now without a Resolution.”   
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Nearly all members of the public who are visible on the meeting recording6 then stood up 
in front of the Councilors with much shouting, including yells of “shame!” and several members 
of the public raised fists.  Attendees assembled in the aisles of the auditorium and moved 
forward.  Councilor Ette, in later comments, described that portion of the meeting as a “melee” 
and “pandemonium” and stated he was concerned for his safety.  At least one police officer 
approached the front of the room and stood between the Councilors and members of the public.  
Shouting continued unabated for approximately two minutes.  Council President Griesemer 
banged the gavel and yelled multiple times that the meeting was adjourned.  Councilors 
remained in their seats.  
 
Throughout the meeting, dozens of members of the public who attended the meeting in 
opposition to the Resolution sat together on one side of the auditorium.  After the meeting was 
announced as adjourned, an estimated two dozen members of the public, including most of the 
members of the public who attended in opposition to the Resolution, left the meeting, believing 
the meeting over.  We have been informed that Amherst Media’s Channel 9 broadcast of the 
meeting ended following the announcement of adjournment.
7  Councilor Ryan then called for a 
point of order approximately five times but was not heard over the shouts of the crowd.  To get 
the attention of Council President Griesemer, Councilor De Angelis shouted “point of order.”  
Council President Griesemer, perhaps still not hearing, stated that the meeting was adjourned.  
Councilor De Angelis then loudly called out “no, George is calling a point of order.”  At that 
point, Council President Griesemer apologized, stating “I’m sorry, point of order…” as the 
shouting from members of the public continued.  Councilor Griesemer then interjected again 
regarding the point of order, and the shouts from the public subsided. 
  
Councilor Ryan asked whether one or more of the Councilors could put their name on the 
Resolution as amended with the Steinberg clauses.  Members of the public called out in response 
and Council President Griesemer twice stated, “this is a question to the Council.”  Council 
President Griesemer then asked if any Councilor wanted to put their name on the Resolution, 
resulting in brief shouting from members of the public.  Councilor Ryan stated that he would be 
willing to sponsor the Resolution with the Steinberg amendments.  Members of the public again 
shouted in response and Council President Griesemer ordered decorum.  Councilor Ryan stated 
to Council President Griesemer, “Lynn, we can’t really do this if this is the way the audience...I 
think we’re going to have to adjourn.”  Members of the public resumed shouting; one Councilor 
requested a recess which Council President Griesemer did not hear or did not acknowledge.  
After over two minutes of shouting from members of the public, Council President Griesemer 
interjected and stated that the Council had completed public comment.  Council President 
Griesemer stated that the Councilors have the right to speak.  Councilor Ryan again suggested 
that the meeting be adjourned, and members of the public again began shouting.  Council 
President Griesemer ultimately silenced the public.   
 
 
6 The video recording of the meeting was captured from the center of the Amherst Middle School auditorium and 
does not show the full width of the room.  The auditorium consists of a center section of seats as well as two side 
sections with aisles in between.  Only the center seating area is captured on the meeting recording, not the side 
seating areas or the aisles. 
7 Amherst Media did not respond to multiple inquiries from our office seeking to confirm that its Channel 9 
broadcast of the meeting ended at this point; therefore, we acknowledge the report from a member of the public but 
do not rely on this fact in making our determination. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Councilor Schoen then stated that had she understood the Resolution would not pass with 
the Steinberg amendments, she would not have voted to include the amendments. Councilor 
Devlin Gauthier asked if there was a procedural path forward to remove the Steinberg 
amendments.  The Council discussed procedural options; members of the public interjected 
several times.  Councilor Schoen then moved to reconsider the vote to insert the Steinberg 
amendments and members of the public cheered. The motion was seconded and members of the 
public again cheered.  
 
Speaking on the motion to reconsider the Steinberg amendments, Councilor Ryan stated, 
“we’re being bullied and being harassed into these actions and I personally resent that deeply, the 
fact that I cannot make my own informed judgement in good conscience apparently is beyond 
the comprehension of most of you.”  Members of the public shouted over Councilor Ryan while 
he spoke; he continued, to further shouts, “you [the public] are constantly undermining that 
democracy by your refusal to allow us to do our business.”  Councilor Ryan stated that he would 
be willing to sponsor the Resolution with the Steinberg amendments, which he felt made the 
Resolution stronger and better, but was concerned by “the idea of reconsidering a vote we just 
held because we’re being harassed and bullied…”  Members of the public continued to interject 
and call out as Councilor Ryan spoke.  Councilor Ryan stated to Council President Griesemer, 
“Lynn, I don’t see how we can do our business in this context.”   
 
Councilor Devlin Gauthier voiced support for the motion to reconsider and expressed a 
desire to hear from the initial sponsors as to why they felt the Steinberg amendments rendered 
the Resolution unacceptable to them.  The Council voted twelve in favor and one opposed on the 
motion to reconsider the Steinberg amendments.  The Council then discussed whether to vote to 
remove one or both of the “Whereas” clauses in the Steinberg amendments and the procedure for 
possibly removing one clause but not the other; members of the public called out on several 
occasions during the discussion.  Ultimately, on reconsideration, the Council voted against the 
Steinberg amendments by a vote of five to eight; the vote itself was interrupted by shouts from 
the audience as some Councilors’ names were called.  A motion to return the names of the initial 
sponsors to the Resolution then passed unanimously.  
 
At approximately 11:30 PM, over five hours after the meeting began, the Council voted 
nine to three to pass the Resolution without the Steinberg amendments.  Members of the public 
cheered and Council President Griesemer announced the meeting adjourned.   
 
The Open Meeting Law complaints were filed on March 6.  On March 13, the Council 
held a special meeting during which it discussed the Open Meeting Law complaints.  At the 
beginning of the March 13 meeting, Council President Griesemer stated, “It’s also important to 
note for all we are not here to discuss or revote the Resolution.  This meeting is not a redo of the 
March 4 meeting.”  During the March 13 meeting, the Council voted to determine that there was 
no OML violation and to “acknowledge the Council actions taken during the last 45 minutes of 
the March 4, 2024, Town Council meeting, to confirm the record of the meeting, and to authorize 
KP Law to respond” to the complaints.  The Council did not take any further vote on the 
Resolution.   
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Do Not Find that Disruptions From Members of the Public During the Council’s 
March 4 Meeting Constituted a Violation of the Open Meeting Law by the Council. 
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  In the same statutory section, the Open 
Meeting Law provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.  No person 
shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g).  The Open 
Meeting Law’s access requirement and the prohibition on disruptions are closely connected and 
serve the same goal.  We have consistently explained that access to a meeting must include the 
opportunity to be physically present when the meeting is held in person, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 
2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.   
 
The Open Meeting Law gives clear authority to the chair of a public body to conduct the 
meeting and regulate who may speak to the body, and to remove disruptive individuals from a 
meeting.  If the chair determines that a member of the public is disruptive, then the chair is 
empowered to ask that person to leave or have that person removed.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g) 
(“If, after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair 
may order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the 
chair may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.”); see 
also OML 2018-25; OML 2013-135; OML 2011-2.  The chair is also authorized to recess or 
adjourn the meeting if members of the public do not cease their disruptive behavior.  See OML 
2019-123; OML 2020-165; OML 2016-169.  Importantly, if the meeting proceeds, the Chair 
must ensure that the meeting remains accessible and open to all members of the public except for 
those who have been lawfully removed.  See OML 2022-143.8  
 
Here, the Council proactively took several steps to ensure the March 4 meeting would be 
accessible to the public.  The Council held the meeting in the middle school auditorium rather 
than its usual meeting room at Town Hall to accommodate the large number of expected 
attendees.  Microphones were provided at the seat of each Councilor as well as at the podium for 
public comment.  In addition, Council President Griesemer began the meeting with an 
announcement regarding respect and civility during public comment, and asked members of the 
public to lower their signs so all could see.  On numerous occasions throughout the meeting 
Council President Griesemer warned members of the public about disruptions and loud outbursts 
and was quick to attempt to silence such disruptions; Council President Griesemer ordered 
decorum several times and on multiple occasions warned or threatened to end the meeting if 
disruptions did not stop.  
 
Notwithstanding these efforts, disruptions continued throughout the duration of the 
Council’s March 4 meeting.  Some disruptions were brief, only momentarily drowning out the 
sound of speakers before order was maintained.  Other disruptions and periods of shouting were 
 
8 A public body facing disruptive members of the public may not, however, close the meeting to the public in its 
entirety and then proceed with the meeting.  See OML 2022-143; OML 2020-7. 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
continuous, lasting for a minute or longer; on some occasions members of the public called out 
or shouted over speakers while they were speaking.  As described above, there were instances 
where even members of the Council, seated at a table together, clearly could not hear each other 
over the calls and shouts from members of the public.  Members of the public seated in the 
audience reported that their ability to hear was even more impacted, because the disruptions 
emanated from their surroundings.9  
 
We have consistently explained that the ability to hear and clearly follow discussions at a 
meeting is important.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-25; OML 2017-135.  Disruptions to a 
meeting, if significant enough, may interfere with the ability and the right of members of the 
public to meaningfully access the meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g., 
OML 2021-111 (finding violation of the Open Meeting Law when the public body’s microphone 
was muted during at least two portions of the meeting while discussions were underway); OML 
2017-135 (finding violation of the Open Meeting Law when members of the public repeatedly 
and throughout the meeting had to ask public body members to speak up). 
 
Nonetheless, we have not previously found instances where disruptions to a meeting 
caused by members of the public constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law by the public 
body.  We have, in contrast, determined that public bodies violated the Open Meeting Law when, 
following substantial disruptions from several members of the public, they responded by 
removing all members of the public, closing the meeting to the public, and continuing to 
deliberate.  See OML 2022-143; OML 2020-7; OML 2017-73.  We also have declined to find 
violations of the Open Meeting Law where a public body promptly addressed concerns about an 
inability to clearly hear discussions.  See, e.g., OML 2023-80 (speaker raised voice when 
member of the public expressed difficulty hearing); OML 2022-183 (although some speakers’ 
comments were muffled due to mask-wearing, speakers began utilizing a microphone when 
asked, which addressed concerns); OML 2018-20 (although public body members spoke in 
softer voices at the beginning of the meeting, members raised their voices throughout the 
remainder of the meeting when notified by the public that they could not be heard).  We 
acknowledge the challenges that faced the Council and Council President Griesemer during the 
March 4 meeting as they endeavored to maintain order and advance to a vote on the Resolution 
that several Councilors and many members of the public supported.  We also recognize and 
commend the desire to allow as much comment and public engagement with the matter as 
possible.  Throughout the meeting, Council President Griesemer promptly responded to each 
disruption by calling for order and ultimately silencing the crowd.  Furthermore, the fact that 
many of the disruptions emanated from a large number of members of the public, rather than a 
few identifiable individuals, made it difficult for the Council to respond by removing the 
disruptive individuals without ending the meeting altogether.   
 
 
9 During the meeting, microphones were placed at the seat of each Councilor as well as at the podium for public 
comment.  Therefore, the audio in the recording of the meeting and for those who attended via Zoom was relatively 
clear, as the recording directly picked up the audio of the intended speakers while noise from the audience was 
captured as more muted background sound.  Members of the public in attendance at the meeting, however, reported 
that shouts and calls from other attendees were significantly louder and more disruptive in-person due to the 
proximity of those seated among the audience.   
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
Therefore, after consideration of all the facts, and notwithstanding concerns about the 
impact that the disruptions had on other meeting attendees, we decline in this situation to find 
that the disruptions by some members of the public prior to Council President Griesemer’s calls 
for adjournment of the meeting constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law by the Council.  
In reaching this conclusion, we do not foreclose the possibility that disruptions by members of 
the public could result in a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We emphasize that the preferred 
course of action under such circumstances is to recess the meeting to attempt to diffuse tensions 
and regain control of the meeting or, if unsuccessful, to adjourn the meeting and convene a new 
meeting at another time with additional safeguards in place.   
 
As explained in greater detail below, we find that the Council indeed adjourned the March 4 
meeting following the announcement that the Council was without a Resolution, although it 
subsequently continued to deliberate and vote on the Resolution.  Because that portion of the 
meeting violated the Open Meeting Law on other grounds, we need not decide whether the 
disruptions caused by some members of the public during the latter portion of the meeting—
which at times were even more prolonged and substantial than earlier in the meeting—violated 
the Open Meeting Law. 
 
II. The Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it adjourned the March 4 meeting 
and continued deliberations several minutes later. 
 
Next, the complaints allege that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
adjourning the March 4 meeting and thereafter continuing discussion and ultimately voting on 
the Resolution.  In response, the Council asserts that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when, despite declaring the meeting adjourned, it was clear in context to both the Council and 
the public that the meeting had not adjourned.  After review, we find that the Council violated 
the Open Meeting Law by continuing deliberations after signaling to the public that the meeting 
was adjourned following the announcement that the Council was without a Resolution. 
 
We have previously reviewed several instances where a public body declared or 
otherwise implied a meeting adjourned and thereafter continued to deliberate.  See, e.g., OML 
2020-165; OML 2019-123; OML 2016-169; OML 2016-140.  In these determinations, we have 
considered both the actions of the public body as well as the perception of members of the public 
in evaluating whether the public body adjourned the meeting and continued to deliberate in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  For example, in OML 2020-165, we found that a public 
body violated the Open Meeting Law when, following a hearing on a special permit in which the 
complainant engaged at length with the public body, the public body closed the hearing and 
voted to adjourn, and complainant left the meeting, and the public body continued to discuss the 
special permit application.  The public body asserted that it only intended to close the hearing, 
not end the meeting, and that the adjournment of the meeting was in error.  Nonetheless, we 
found significant that “at least one member of the public who clearly had an interest in the topic 
being discussed left the meeting room after the [public body] voted to adjourn the meeting.”  
OML 2020-165.  See also OML 2016-140 (finding that although the public body never used the 
word “adjourn,” when the chair stated that the public body would take the matter under 
advisement, thanked everyone for coming, and members began to rise from their seats, the public 
was misled into believing the meeting was over).  In contrast, we have found instances where a 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
public body chair mistakenly used the word “adjourn” when it was clear in context they intended 
only to “recess” the meeting for a brief period of time, and there was no apparent confusion 
about the public body’s intent.  See OML 2019-123; OML 2016-169.  We note, also, that the 
Open Meeting Law does not require a vote to adjourn a meeting, and therefore a lack of a formal 
motion and vote to adjourn does not preclude a finding that a public body effectively closed its 
meeting.  See OML 2025-112; OML 2019-7. 
 
 After review, we find that some members of the public reasonably understood that the 
Council adjourned its March 4 meeting, and the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
resuming the meeting a few minutes later and proceeding with deliberations and a vote on the 
Resolution.  Several facts support this conclusion.  First, after it was declared that there was no 
Resolution and the meeting descended into disorder (what the Council in its response refers to as 
“a period of confusion… and immense outcry”), Council President Griesemer repeatedly banged 
her gavel and yelled multiple times that the meeting was adjourned.  Second, Council President 
Griesemer had previously warned that if the disruptions from members of the public did not stop, 
the meeting would need to end; the shouts and jeers at this point in the meeting far exceeded the 
previous disruptions and it was reasonable to conclude that Council President Griesemer was 
indeed following through on her previous warnings.  Third, and quite significantly, dozens of 
members of the public, including most of the members of the public who attended the meeting in 
opposition to the Resolution and were seated together in the left section of the auditorium, rose 
from their seats and left the meeting, believing the meeting over.  Fourth, even members of the 
public who remained in the meeting room rose from their seats, some put on coats, many moved 
into the aisles, and unabated shouting at Councilors continued for approximately two minutes in 
a manner that was clearly inconsistent with a meeting in progress.  Fifth, after Council President 
Griesemer banged her gavel and announced the meeting adjourned, Councilor Ryan called five 
times for a point of order; Council President Griesemer repeated that the meeting was adjourned.  
We acknowledge that all Councilors remained in their seats and that the Council resumed 
discussions after approximately two minutes but find these facts insufficient to outweigh the 
other facts and circumstances. 
  
Having found that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by continuing 
deliberations following adjournment of the meeting, we next consider the complainants’ 
requested remedy.  The complainants ask us to nullify the March 4 vote on the Resolution.  After 
much consideration, we decline to exercise our discretion to nullify the vote.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(c).  The Resolution was non-binding; the Council has no direct authority or control over the 
matters called for in the Resolution.  Moreover, the subject matter of the Resolution has been 
partially superseded by subsequent geopolitical events.  We also acknowledge, as did several 
speakers during the March 4 meeting, that the Resolution as well as the process under which it 
was considered was divisive and fractured the community; we do not find that, this many months 
later, the public interest would be served by reigniting the debate.  Therefore, notwithstanding a 
finding of a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to order the requested remedy. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
continuing deliberations following adjournment of the meeting.  We order the Council’s 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
 We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.     
 
 
Sincerely,   
 
 
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General   
Division of Open Government   
   
 
cc:  Mike Offner (via email: ) 
Lonna Steinberg (v
 ia email: ) 
Lynn Griesemer, Chair, Amherst Town Council (v ia email: griesemerl@amherstma.gov)   
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
