===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (6 J 7) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 19, 2016 
OML 2016-54 
Karen Fisher, Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Brockton 
45 School Street 
Brockton, MA 02301 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Fisher: 
This office received three complaints from Jeanne Holmes on December 17, 2015, 
alleging that the Brockton Planning Board (the Board), Pamela Gurley, Robert May and 
Attorney Phillip Nessralla1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about September 30, 2015 and October 
13, 2015, respectively, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 
20, 2015. The complaints allege the following: (1) the Board deliberated immediately 
following its September 1, 2015 meeting and deliberated outside of a meeting leading up to its 
next meeting on September 16, 2015; (2) during its September 16, 2015 meeting, the Board 
discussed items that were not on the notice and the public was unable to hear some of the 
Board's discussion; and (3) during its October 7, 2015 meeting, the Board was unable to 
accommodate all of the members of the public in attendance. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide the public with adequate access to its October 7, 2015 meeting. We find 
that the Board did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching our 
determination, we reviewed the initial complaints; the Board's response; and the complaint 
filed with our office, requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notices and 
minutes from the Board's meetings held on September 1, 2015; September 16, 2015; and 
October 7, 2015,2 Finally, in February and March 2016, we spoke individually by telephone 
with the following Board members: Chair David Wheeler, Gary Keith, Ollie Spears, Ross 
Mesina, Bob Pelaggi, and Andrea Burton. 
1 These individuals are public officials who are not members of a public body, thus they are not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. We therefore decline to review the allegations against them. See OML 2015-31. 
2 We also reviewed a video recording of the October 7, 2015 meeting. 
o 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a nine member public body, thus five 
members constitute a quorum. Over the course of several meetings in the fall of 2015, the 
Board discussed a proposed power plant in the City of Brockton. Immediately following the 
adjournment of its meeting on September 1, 2015, as the audience and Board members began 
to get up from their seats to leave, the Board's secretary informed the Board that she needed 
to present a draft contract to the Board for its approval, a task she believed to be ministerial in 
nature. The City Law Department had selected an engineering firm to provide a peer review 
of the power plant project and had drafted a contract for this purpose. This contract was not 
listed as a discussion topic on the meeting notice for that evening. Mr. Spears asked the 
secretary about the contract and who selected the engineering firm. Chair Wheeler told the 
secretary that the Board would not sign the contract because the Board wanted to select the 
engineering firm to hire. Mr. Spears then stated that the discussion should not be held outside 
of a meeting. The Board discussed whether to reconvene in open session to discuss the 
matter. Mr. Spears moved to reconvene the meeting, which the Board approved. During the 
reconvened meeting, the Board decided to table the issue for its next meeting on September 
16, 2015. In preparation for this next meeting, the Planning Department solicited quotes from 
engineering firms for the Board's review. 
On September 16, 2015, the Board convened in a conference room on the third floor 
of City Hall, rather than its usual meeting room, the GAR conference room. The meeting 
notice, posted on September 9, 2015, listed the correct meeting location. During the meeting, 
the Board discussed two items that were not listed on the meeting notice: a final lot release for 
a particular subdivision and a release from covenant for another property. The Board's 
secretary had prepared the notice for posting. She learned about the lot release a day before 
the meeting, but could not recall when she learned about the covenant release. Chair Wheeler 
did not recall whether he knew about these topics prior to the meeting. During the meeting, 
one member of the public stated that he was unable to hear the Board's discussions, but did 
not repeat his request that the Board speak louder. 
During its October 7, 2015 meeting, the Board resumed the hearing on the site plan 
review of the power plant project. The Board held this meeting back in its usual meeting 
location, the GAR conference room. Anticipating a crowd for this hearing, Chair Wheeler 
had previously requested that the Board meetings about the proposed power plant be held in 
the City Council chambers, but the City Clerk denied his request. Members of the public 
filled the available chairs and stood in the entrance to the room and in the hallway. 
Representatives for the power plant began their presentation. Approximately 16 minutes into 
their presentation. Chair Wheeler invited members of the public to stand around the room's 
perimeter, including behind the Board's table. Other members of the public remained 
standing in the doorway and the lobby outside of the room for the remainder of the meeting. 
The Board did not provide video streaming of the meeting for this overflow crowd. 
Following this meeting. Chair Wheeler scheduled future meetings related to the power plant 
at the West Junior High School auditorium. 
3 Chair Wheeler indicated to our office that he now reviews notices before they are posted. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridee. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any-
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2015-38; 
OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.4 Additionally, public bodies must make 
reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual crowds. See OML 2012-66. When a public 
body is informed in advance that a meeting is expected to draw a particularly large crowd, 
that body should make reasonable efforts to accommodate all people who wish to witness the 
discussion. OML 2015-92. 
1. The September 1. 2015 Board Meeting. 
The complainant alleges that the Board improperly deliberated immediately following 
the adjournment of its September 1, 2015 meeting. We do not find a violation. The Board, 
caught off-guard by the Board secretary's request with respect to the draft peer review 
contract, briefly discussed the contract before Mr. Spears correctly pointed out that the Board 
should not continue the discussion outside of a meeting. The Board properly reconvened the 
meeting to discuss the unanticipated matter and decided to table the matter until the next 
meeting. We decline to find a violation because the Board took prompt action to reconvene 
the meeting in an effort to comply with the Open Meeting Law. Thus, the Board proactively 
remedied any possible violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-37. Furthermore, 
we find no evidence that the Board otherwise deliberated about the peer review selection 
process outside of a meeting. 
11. The September 16. 2015 Board Meeting. 
The complainant alleges that, during its September 16, 2015 meeting, the Board 
discussed items that had not been listed on the meeting notice. A public body must post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 
29.03(1). We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the lot 
14 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
release because the Board learned about it just a day prior to the meeting. See OML 2016-38; 
OML 2016-23. We are unable to determine whether the Board's discussion of the other topic, 
the covenant release, was improper because neither the secretary nor Chair Wheeler can recall 
precisely when the topic came to the Board's attention, although it was after the notice was 
posted. LI While we decline to find a violation in this instance, we remind the Board, that in 
order to discuss topics that are anticipated at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, they 
must be listed on the notice. Although a public body may consider an unanticipated topic that 
was not listed in the meeting notice, the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies 
to postpone discussion and action on unnoticed topics that are controversial or may be of 
particular interest to the public. See OML 2015-188; OML 2012-85. 
Additionally, the complainant alleges that it was difficult to hear the Board's 
discussion at that particular meeting location. The Board's usual meeting location was 
unavailable. As a result, the Board convened in another conference room in City Hall. One 
person spoke up about being unable to sufficiently hear the Board. The Board attempted to 
speak up and this person did not repeat his request. Accordingly, absent any other evidence to 
the contrary, we credit the Board's assertion that the audience could hear its deliberations 
during this meeting. See OML 2014-3. 
III. The October 7. 2015 Board Meeting. 
The complainant alleges that the Board failed to provide an adequate meeting space to 
accommodate the crowd during its October 7, 2015 meeting. During this meeting, the Board 
continued a hearing on the proposed power plant; a controversial topic of public interest in the 
community. Anticipating a large crowd, the Board attempted to move the meeting to the City 
Council chambers, but its request was denied. The meeting was therefore held in its usual 
meeting space, the GAR conference room. As the power plant representatives' presentation 
began at the start of the meeting, a number of individuals stood in the doorway and the 
hallway outside of the Board's meeting room, although there was room for individuals to 
stand inside the meeting room. The Board did not invite those individuals into the room until 
approximately 16 minutes into the meeting. Additionally, there was no video streaming of the 
meeting for those individuals who remained standing in the hallway for the entire meeting. 
See OML 2014-11; OML 2014-3; OML 2012-66. Accordingly, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to provide the public with adequate access to its October 7, 2015 
meeting. We commend the Board for scheduling subsequent meetings regarding the power 
plant at the junior high school auditorium. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to provide the public with adequate access to its October 7, 2015 meeting. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future 
similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jeanne Holmes 
Brockton Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 