===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 18, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 85 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP|Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Margaret Sheehan on behalf of 
Community Land & Water Coalition on September 16, 2022,
1 alleging that the Plymouth 
Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 16, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letter dated September 2. The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s August 
10 meeting included an insufficiently specific topic.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s August 10 meeting, a 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 To the extent the complaint alleges that a public hearing notice was insufficient or that the Board did not provide 
documents to the public prior to the August 10 meeting, we decline to review these allegations because, even if true, 
they do not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 5-24-2021 (Barnstable Town 
Conservation Department) (“The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.”); OML 2021-32 (“there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a 
public body affirmatively provide copies of documents to the public before or at a meeting, or that documents be 
posted to a website prior to or after a meeting. Instead, documents used by a public body during an open session 
meeting must be provided in response to a public records request.”). However, we do encourage public bodies, 
whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of all documents it intends to discuss. Particularly 
where viewing such documents would be helpful to following the conversation during the meeting, providing copies 
of documents that the Board intends to discuss promotes transparency and public access to government 
deliberations. See OML 2016-94.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
video recording of the August 10 meeting,3 and an August 4 letter from the Claremont 
Companies, LLC to the Plymouth Zoning Board of Appeals.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On August 3 the Board posted notice for a meeting to 
be held on August 10. Included on the notice was the following topic, listed under the heading 
“Public Hearing”: 
 
ZBA 4063– Claremont Plymouth LLC 
off Colony Place, Map 104, Lots 26-40 and 26-41 (cont. from 7/6 and 7/20) 
Special Permit required for the following Sections: 205-16 (MC) use Table C7 for 
Elderly Housing; 207-7 for Inclusionary Housing requirements; 203-1 (D) number 
of Principal Buildings on one lot; 203- 2 (B) and (B)2 to waive natural features 
conservation general requirements for vegetation preservation and topography and 
soil preservation; Section 203-7 (C)2 to waive off street parking requirements for 
entrance and exit points and 203-7 (G) for visual relief including but not limited to 
landscaping within 20 feet of street layout; and Section 203- 7 (J) to waive the 
number of required parking spaces; Section 206-1 (G) Aquifer Protection Overlay 
District (APOD) to construct 100% recharge facilities offsite,. Dimensional Table, 
Footnote 7 to exceed Thirty- five ft.(35’) in height; Section 202- 6 (A) to waive 
and/or modify dimensional and similar requirements, including setbacks. 
 
 On August 4 the Board received a revised plan from Claremont Plymouth LLC 
(“Claremont”) related to the special permit application to be discussed at the August 10 
meeting. On August 10 the Board met as scheduled. When the Board reached the topic of 
the Claremont special permit, Tim Grandy, acting as chair for the meeting, read the 
notice topic aloud. Representatives for Claremont then gave a presentation explaining 
that in response to feedback from the community and the Board, the plan had been 
revised such that Claremont was now seeking fewer waivers and was proposing to 
include an additional tract of land. After the presentation, Board members made 
comments and asked questions; several members of the public, including the 
Complainant, provided public comment and asked questions; and the representatives for 
Claremont spoke again. Finally, the Board voted to send a report to the Zoning Board of 
Appeals recommending that Claremont’s special permit application be approved subject 
to the Board’s recommended conditions and noting that the Board did not support 
Claremont’s request for a waiver from height restrictions.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
 
3 A video recording of the Board’s August 10 meeting may be found at https://archive.org/details/g -ply-plb-081022. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 A public body need 
not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements. See 
OML 2022-98; OML 2019-134. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is 
clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone; rather, we 
review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently 
specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2020-137.  
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice topic related to Claremont’s special permit 
applic
ation was insufficient because the changes made to the plan for which the special permit 
was sought were so significant as to be “tantamount to an entirely new project.” The Board 
explains that “[t]he revised plans included a reduction in the number of variances requested, but 
did not, in the Board’s view, fundamentally alter the nature of the pending application . . . .” 
Indeed, an August 4 letter from the Claremont Companies to the Plymouth Zoning Board of 
Appeals, and which was provided to our office with the request for further review, explains that 
the revised plan sought three waivers—related to parking spaces and a height restriction—which 
appear to be a subset of the waivers listed on the August 10 meeting notice. We find that the 
notice topic as listed was sufficient to inform the public that the Board would discuss 
Claremont’s special permit application. See OML 2013-128; OML 2016-78; OML 2017-82.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Tim Grandy, Chair, Plymouth Planning Board ( via email: ) 
 Lee Hartmann, Plymouth Planning Director (via email: LHartmann@plymouth-ma.gov) 
Margaret Sheehan, Esq., Community Land & Water Coalition (via e-mail: 
) 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 