===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       April 25, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 84 
 
David A. Cella 
Chief Counsel, Appellate Tax Board 
100 Cambridge Street, Suite 200 
Boston, MA 02114 
 
By email only: david.a.cella@mass.gov 
 
 RE:  Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Cella: 
 
This office received a complaint from Alan Sliski on January 25, 2024, alleging that the 
Appellate Tax Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,  §§ 18-25.  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 29, 2023, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by email dated January 12, 2024.  The complaint alleges that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to post notice of a meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also communicated by email with you and with Alan Sliski.  You and I spoke by telephone on 
April 2, 2024.   
 
FACTS 
  
 We find the facts as follows.  The matter that is the subject of the instant Open Meeting 
Law complaint is 480 McClellan LLC v. Board of Assessors of the City of Boston, Docket No. 
F340469 (hereinafter “the McClellan Matter”).  Mr. Sliski is not a party to the McClellan Matter.  
The Board decided the McClellan Matter on the papers, without a hearing.  Members of the 
Board deliberated privately and the Board issued its decision on August 9, 2023.  The parties to 
the McClellan Matter requested findings of fact and a report, which the Board issued on 
December 12, 2023.     
 
  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Subject to some exceptions not relevant here, a “public body” subject to the Open 
Meeting Law is any “multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within 
the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose; . . . .”  
G.L. c. 30A, §18.  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  In relevant 
part, a “meeting” is defined under the Open Meeting Law as a “deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction; provided, however, ‘meeting’ shall not 
include: . . .(d) a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of 
making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it; . . . .”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§18.  See, e.g., OML 2015-103 (finding that discussions held by Massachusetts Public Utilities 
Commission for purposes of rendering quasi-judicial decisions are not subject to Open Meeting 
Law).1  When an adjudicatory body meets to deliberate and render a decision following an 
adjudicatory proceeding, it is not subject to the Open Meeting Law because that gathering is    
exempt from the Open Meeting Law’s definition of “meeting.”  However, the hearing or 
adjudicatory proceeding itself, if it entails deliberation among a quorum of a public body, is a 
“meeting” and therefore subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2013-
104 (finding that Department of Public Safety Board of Appeals is a “public body” and that 
hearing or adjudicatory proceeding is a “meeting” subject to Open Meeting Law).2 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on December 12, 
2023.  However, the Board did not hold a hearing on that date or at any other time relative to the 
McClellan Matter.  The only times that the Board convened relative to the McClellan Matter 
were when it deliberated in preparation of its decision.  Such deliberations are excluded from the 
definition of “meeting” under the Open Meeting Law.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law when it convened relative to the McClellan Matter without posting notice. 
 
Although we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law relative to the McClellan matter, 
we take this opportunity to remind the Board that while its deliberations held for the sole purpose 
of making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding are excluded from the definition of 
“meeting,” its adjudicatory proceedings may be subject to the Open Meeting Law, including 
notice requirements.   
 
In its response to the complaint, the Board maintains that section 1 of chapter 30A 
precludes the application of the Open Meeting Law to any of its proceedings.  We read the 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
2 We provide the following guidance in response to Frequently Asked Questions, found at 
https://www.mass.gov/info-det ails/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law#frequently-asked-
questions-about-quasi-judicial-public-bodies- : 
State “quasi-judicial” public bodies are cautioned that they must still follow the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law, including posting notice of meetings, retaining minutes, and opening their meetings to the public.  The “quasi-
judicial" exemption from the definition of “meeting” is limited to meetings held “for the sole purpose of making a 
decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it.” Id. (emphasis added). The adjudicatory 
proceeding itself must still be open to the public.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
definitions set out in the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 18, in harmony with the definition 
section found at G.L. c. 30A, § 1.  See OML 2015-149.  See also Frequently Asked Questions, at 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-
law#frequently-asked-questions-about-quasi-judicial-public-bodies- (reading the definitions in 
section 18 in harmony with the definitions in section 1).  Section 1 defines “adjudicatory 
proceeding,” in relevant part, as “a proceeding before an agency in which the legal rights, duties 
or privileges of specifically named persons are required by constitutional right or by any 
provision of the General Laws to be determined after opportunity for an agency hearing.”  GL c. 
30A, §1(1).  We find no incongruity between the definition set out in section 1 and our prior 
finding that adjudicatory proceedings are governed by the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the way alleged by the complainant.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
  
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Alan Sliski (by email only: )  
  
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
