===PAGE 1===
E COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 26, 2018 
OML 2018-92 
Donna Clark, Chair 
Sterling Board of Health 
Butterick Building 
1 Park Street 
Sterling, MA 01564 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Clark; 
This office received a complaint from Gary Menin, dated November 3, alleging that the 
Sterling Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 1 8-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 11 and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated August 18.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the open session minutes from the 
Board's August 10 meeting. Finally, we spoke separately with you and Board Member Allen 
Hoffman by telephone on June 13, 2018,3 and with the complainant by telephone on June 22, 
2018. 
THI 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complainant also alleges, in his November 3 complaint filed with this office, that the Board regularly 
deliberates outside of properly posted meetings and includes examples from 2012 to 2017. We decline to review 
this allegation because we find that it was not included within the August 11 complaint to the Board and the Board 
has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G;L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Moreover, complaints 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body within 30 days of the date of the 
alleged violation, and complaints must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 2016-57; 2012-106. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, of which the 
complainant is a member. The Board held a meeting on August 10. At the beginning of the 
meeting. Chair Donna Clark announced that one of her children had recently been involved in a 
serious car accident and therefore she had not had the opportunity to read an email sent by the 
complainant the previous evening. The Board then received a report from Health Agent David 
Favreau; heard from the Wachusett Medical Reserve Corp; and discussed a potential site visit, a 
proposed nuisance ordinance, the safety of fair rides, and possible rock contamination at Oak 
Hill Quarry. 
After the conclusion of the meeting. Chair Clark and Board Member Allen Hoffman 
discussed the car accident that her child had been involved in as they left the meeting room. The 
discussion lasted approximately 10 to 15 minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
BOA, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id 
The complaint alleges that Chair Clark and Mr. Hoffman deliberated after the conclusion 
of a properly posted meeting. Both Chair Clark and Mr. Hoffman stated that the discussion they 
had after the conclusion of the August 10 meeting only pertained to Chair Clark's child and the 
car accident he had been involved in. Absent sufficient evident to the contrary, we credit the 
Board's account of the facts and find that it did not discuss Board business outside of a noticed 
meeting. See OML 2014-I22.4 As the Board did not deliberate outside of a properly posted 
meeting, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gary Menin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 