===PAGE 1===
E COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 13, 2017 
OML 2017-174 
John F. McAuliffe, Town Administrator 
Town of Swansea 
Town Hall, 81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. McAuliffe: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated September 15, alleging that 
the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 6, and the Board 
responded by letter dated September 15. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board 
held a meeting in a room that could not accommodate the anticipated crowd. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a video recording of the 
Board's August 8 meeting.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complaint concerns the Board's August 8 meeting, 
which was held in the meeting room at the Swansea School Administration Building. This 
meeting room has a maximum occupancy of 48 people. During the meeting, the Board held a 
"pinning ceremony" for new firefighters. Family members and fire department personnel 
attended this ceremony. While the entire meeting room is not visible in the video recording of 
the August 8 meeting, it appears that many of the seats were occupied. During the ceremony, 
fire department personnel stood along the side of the room and in the doorway. After the 
ceremony had concluded, the Board took a recess before continuing with other business. After 
the recess, many seats in the meeting room appeared to be empty. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The recording of the August 8 meeting is available here: https://www.swanseacabletv.com/2017/08/board-of-
selectmen-meeting-august-8th-2017/. 
THI 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open and accessible to 
the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-49.3 Access must include the opportunity to be 
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48. To this end, public bodies 
must make reasonable efforts to accommodate anticipated crowds. See OML 2015-92. 
The complaint alleges that the Board held its August 8 meeting in a room too small to 
accommodate members of the public wishing to attend. As evidence, the complaint points to 
sections of the meeting recording during which many chairs appear to be full and fire department 
personnel are seen standing. In its response, the Board denies that the meeting room was at or 
exceeded capacity. We first note that the meeting room had a capacity of 48 people and fewer 
than 48 seats were visible in the recording. It is therefore unclear from the recording whether all 
seats were occupied. Additionally, the fact that fire department personnel stood for the 
ceremony portion of the meeting does not necessarily indicate that chairs were unavailable. In 
its response, the Board explains that no member of the public present for the August 8 meeting 
indicated that they were unable to access the meeting room or otherwise could not observe the 
proceedings. Based on the foregoing, we conclude that meeting was fully accessible to the 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Arthur Frank, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determination letters may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/Dpenmeeting. 
public. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevi 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 