===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEAUEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 15, 2016 
OML2016- 127 
Peter Smith, Esq. 
200 North Main Street, Suite 8 
East Longmeadow, MA 01028 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Smith: 
This office received a complaint from The Hon. William Martin on March 14, 2016, 
alleging that the Greenfield School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about January 6, 2016, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint by 
letter dated January 12, 2016.' In his complaint, Mayor Martin alleges that the Committee's 
December 30, 2015 meeting notice failed to list an anticipated executive session topic and 
failed to include "open session" as a topic. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail about the added executive session topic in the 
announcement prior to the executive session. However, we find that the Committee did not 
violate the law in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice, open and executive session minutes 
of the Committee's December 30, 2015 meeting. 2 
1 The Committee did not discuss this complaint prior to your response. We remind the Committee that when an 
individual files an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the 
complaint to the members of the public body," and "the public body shall review the complaint's allegations." 
940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). Thus, the public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or 
meet to delegate that authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
OML 2012-90. 
2 We did not receive these materials from the Committee until July 28, 2016, and only after numerous requests 
from our office. The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[ujpon notification of an investigation, any person, 
public body or any other... official or entity who is the subject of an investigation, shall make all information 
necessary to conduct such investigation available to the attorney general." G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a). We caution the 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During several meetings throughout the fall of 2015, a 
subcommittee of the Committee, along with Attorney Peter Smith, counsel for the Committee, 
negotiated a collective bargaining contract with the Greenfield Education Association. 3 On 
December 30, 2015 at 4:49 P.M., Attorney Smith received confirmation from the 
Massachusetts Teachers Association that the Greenfield Education Association had accepted 
the final revisions to a Tentative Agreement. The Committee already anticipated holding an 
unrelated executive session for that evening at 6:30 P.M. to discuss imminent litigation 
involving a former nonunion employee. Attorney Smith decided to bring the Tentative 
Agreement to the Committee for approval that evening as the end of the calendar year 
approached and hence, the current Committee members' terms expired the next day. 4 
The meeting notice, which had been timely posted on December 23, 2015, listed the 
topic as follows: "1. Executive Session, in conformance with MGL c 30A, §21, (3): To 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining and litigation[.]" The only other topic 
listed was "Call to Order." At the meeting, the Committee began with a Call to Order, 
followed by a motion to convene in executive session "in conformance with MGL c 3 OA, §21, 
(2) and (3): to conduct a strategy session with respect to litigation and potential litigation 
involving union and nonunion personnel, and additionally strategy for collective bargaining 
for union personnel." The Committee approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote. 
The Committee did not announce that it would reconvene in open session following the 
executive session. 3 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to meet in open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies must post a notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting that includes "the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Topics should be listed in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We 
generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand what the nature of the public body's discussion will be. 
See OML 2016-38; OML 2015-74. 6 While the Open Meeting Law does not require the chair 
of a public body to guess what will occur during a meeting, the chair does need to list those 
topics that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2016-76. 
Committee that we may find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a future failure to respond to our request 
for information and/or materials in the course of an investigation. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
4 Attorney Smith acknowledges that this Tentative Agreement did not need to be executed by the end of the year, 
however. 
5 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to announce whether it will 
reconvene in open session, or adjourn the meeting in executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is, "[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body may enter executive, or 
closed, session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before 
entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, 
including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session 
will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. Id. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly discussed the Tentative 
Agreement during its December 30, 2015 executive session because it was not listed on the 
meeting notice. A public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the 
meeting notice if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours 
before the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2013- 14. Although it was not listed on 
the notice, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing and approving 
the Tentative Agreement that evening because negotiations with the Greenfield Education 
Association had concluded just hours before the meeting, and therefore the Committee chair 
did not reasonably anticipate discussing this topic at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. 
See OML 2016-103. However, the Committee should have identified the name of the 
collective bargaining unit and the specific purpose for the closed door discussion—the 
Tentative Agreement—in the announcement prior to convening in executive session, as 
Attorney Smith has conceded that disclosure of this information would not have compromised 
the purpose for the closed door discussion. See OML 2015-157. Failure to provide this 
information in the announcement is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Because the Committee failed to follow proper procedure in convening its December 
30, 2015 executive session, the Committee may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the 
basis for continuing to withhold the minutes of that executive session. However, the attorney-
client privilege or one or more exemptions to the Public Records Law may allow the 
Committee to withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, from disclosure. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). 
The complaint also alleges that the Committee failed to list "open session" as a topic 
on the notice. All executive sessions must be preceded by an open meeting, and that meeting 
must be held in a location that is open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, 20(a); 
OML 2012-48; see also OML 2015-177 ("[wjhen the only business to be discussed during an 
open session is the procedural requirements for entering executive session, listing 'open 
session' on the meeting notice is the only means by which members of the public are that a 
public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that they are permitted to attend"). Although 
the Committee did not use "open session" as the topic notifying the public that the executive 
session would be preceded by an open session, the topic listed, "Call to Order" was intended 
3 
===PAGE 4===
for this purpose. See OML 2015-153; OML 2015-110. Accordingly, we find no violation in 
this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail about the added executive session topic in the 
announcement prior to its December 30, 2015 executive session. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. In addition, we order the Committee to 
release its December 30, 2015 executive session minutes, within 30 days of receipt of this 
determination, in accordance with the guidance above. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Hon. William Martin 
Greenfield School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 