===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 17,2019
OML 2019-70
John J. Coughlin, Esq.
Bogle, DeAscentis & Coughlin, P.C.
57 North Main Street 
Fall River, MA 02720-2129
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Coughlin:
This office received a complaint from Shawn Cadime, on January 9, 2019, alleging that 
the Fall River Redevelopment Authority (the “Authority”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on November 19, 2018, 
and the Authority responded by letter dated December 6, 2018. In his complaint, Mr. Cadime 
alleges that the Authority voted at its November 16, 2018, meeting to terminate a contract, even 
though the possibility of such a vote was not listed on the meeting notice.
Following our review, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Authority’s response, the 
request for further review and meeting minutes from the November 16, 2018, meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Authority is a five-member volunteer board with no 
full-time staff. The Authority had entered into a contract with a private vendor known as Jobs 
for Fall River Inc. (“JOBS”), which is also known as Bristol County Economic Development 
Consultants, and previously, as Fall River Office of Economic Development. JOBS was 
required to provide administrative services, including auditing services and supervision of certain 
construction projects, on behalf of the Authority.
The notice for the Authority’s November 16, 2018, meeting contained three items: 
“Correspondence from the City Auditor,” “Update/discussion on Old Second Street” and 
“Update/discussion on City Pier Project.” Over the course of the meeting, the Authority’s 
members learned about failures of JOBS to perform duties related to each of these three matters. 
Near the end of the meeting, Authority member Robert Smith made a motion to terminate the 
contract between the Authority and JOBS, effective after the 30 days required by the contract.
1

===PAGE 2===
Mr. Smith states that he had not discussed this motion with any other member of the Authority, 
including the Chair, before the meeting. He “became concerned that these items and projects 
were not being properly managed by JOBS on behalf of [the Authority]” and made the motion in 
response to what he learned at the meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, “a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-186. Where a 
public body’s discussion, including a vote, naturally flows from its consideration of the posted 
agenda topic, the notice is sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44.
Here, we find that the discussion and vote to terminate the contract with JOBS was not 
anticipated in advance of the meeting, but rather arose organically from the discussion of the 
anticipated topics that were included in the meeting notice. Therefore, the motion and resulting 
vote were not required to be included on the meeting notice as they were not reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
However, the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best 
practice, table unplanned topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order to 
include them in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2016-54; OML 2018-119. 
This gives the public a greater opportunity to understand how public policy decisions are made, 
furthering the larger aim of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Authority. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Shawn Cadime
Fall River Redevelopment Authority
2

===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
