===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 1, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 199 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Devan C. Braun, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
DBraun@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Braun:  
 
On June 26, 2024, this office received a complaint from Andrew Spath, on behalf of 98 
Barker Street Realty Trust (the “Trust”), alleging that the Pembroke Conservation Commission 
(the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25 when it deliberated 
outside of a public meeting.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on April 
4.
1  You responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated April 22.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the complaint, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed letters which the Commission sent 
to the Trust on March 27 and May 6.  We reviewed minutes of the Commission’s March 7 
meeting and notices of the Commission’s April 18 and May 2 meetings.  We viewed a recording 
of the Commission’s May 2 meeting, available online,2 and recordings of the Commission’s 
March 14 meeting, provided by the complainant.  Finally, we communicated with you and with 
the complainant via email. 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  Th e Trust, of which the complainant is a trustee, holds title 
to property located at 98 Barker Street and 409 Washington Street, Pembroke, Massachusetts 
(the “Property”).  Sometime during the first months of 2023, the Trust improved an existing 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 The recording can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FoQH-Ofp9j4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
roadway through the Property, among other work.  On or about May 1, 2023, the Commission 
ordered the Trust to cease and desist all work within the wetland areas and buffer zones on the 
Property and to prepare a restoration plan.  With the assistance of counsel and a wetlands expert, 
the Trust prepared a restoration plan and filed it with the Commission.  The Trust also filed a 
notice of intent, seeking permission to perform work on the Property.   
 
On March 7, 2024, the Commission held a public hearing, at which it voted to approve 
the Trust’s proposed restoration plan, subject to two additional conditions, one concerning the 
buffer zone and the other the planting of disease-resistant elms.  The Commission held its next 
meeting on March 14, which was attended by town counsel, Attorney Amy Kwessel.  At the 
meeting, the Commission discussed the complainant’s notice of intent, and the content of any 
resulting order of conditions that the Commission might issue.  The discussion lasted 
approximately 30 minutes.  When some members questioned the sufficiency of oversight of the 
restoration plan, Attorney Kwessel interrupted the discussion.  She reminded the Commission 
that they already had discussed and approved (with two conditions) the restoration plan at the 
March 7 public hearing.  She counseled the Commission not to discuss the restoration plan 
further because the public hearing was closed.  At the conclusion of its discussion on March 14, 
the Commission voted by roll call to deny the notice of intent.   
 
On or about March 27, the Administrative Agent of the Commission, Andrew Wandell, 
sent correspondence to the complainant, purporting to memorialize the terms of the 
Commission’s March 7 vote (“the March 27 Letter”).  The March 27 Letter imposed additional 
obligations beyond those established by the March 7 vote, including expansion of the area of 
restoration.  This Open Meeting Law complaint followed on April 4.  The Commission next met 
in open session on May 2.
3  During the May 2 meeting, the Commission discussed the 
inconsistencies between the March 7 vote and the March 27 letter, with the objective to send an 
updated letter that clearly reflected the Commission’s requirements.  Commission member James 
Campbell led the discussion, guided by a chart that he had prepared in advance of the meeting 
that compared the conditions established by vote at the March 7 meeting with those set out in the 
March 27 letter.  Mr. Campbell noted that the March 27 letter departed from the requirements 
established by the March 7 vote.  For example, on March 7, the Commission did not accept its 
own wetland scientist’s recommendation that the buffer zone be totally restored.  However, in a 
“significant variation,” the March 27 letter adopted the language of the wetland scientist and 
required total restoration.  This and other discrepancies were unintentional, according to Mr. 
Campbell.  By motion passed at the conclusion of the May 2 discussion, Administrative Agent 
Wandell was directed to issue an amended letter to more accurately reflect the requirements 
established by the March 7 vote.  An amended letter was sent on May 6. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
 
3 The Commission met in executive session on April 18 to discuss the Open Meeting Law complaint.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “
an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
The complainant alleges the Commission deliberated outside a posted meeting about the 
plan to restore the Property.  He maintains that the March 27 Letter reflects changes to the 
restoration plan that were developed through secret deliberation.  The complainant notes that 
some members of the Commission started to revisit provisions of the restoration plan at the 
March 14 meeting and only stopped the discussion when reminded by town counsel that the 
public hearing on the restoration plan was closed.  Mr. Spath speculates that after town counsel 
cut the March 14 discussion short, members simply resumed the discussion outside of a meeting 
and that additional conditions within the March 27 Letter, including restoration of the entire 100-
foot buffer, evidence improper deliberation. 
 
The Commission denies any deliberation outside of a meeting.4  Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121;5 
OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 
454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives 
actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for the general welfare.”)  Moreover, the 
Commission’s discussion at its May 2 meeting reflects the body’s own attempt to reconcile the 
March 27 letter with the vote on March 7 – a “significant variation,” in the words of member 
Campbell, who had prepared a chart documenting the differences.  Thus, not only does the 
evidence fail to show improper deliberation, it suggests that the Commission recognized the 
discrepancy between the March 7 vote and the March 27 letter and addressed it at its May 2 
meeting. 
 
Finally, we note the compl
 ainant’s dissatisfaction with the Commission’s response to a 
request he made under the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, §10.  Mr. Spath urges us to use our 
investigatory authority to pierce what he deems a “frivolous” assertion of privilege the 
Commission raised in response to the public records request.  He asserts that the Commission is 
hiding behind a privilege log to conceal deliberations held outside of a meeting.  The 
Commission’s reliance on privilege, however, was made in the context of a public records 
request.  The Commission is not relying on the Open Meeting Law as a basis for withholding the 
documents.  We make no finding as to whether the Commission justifiably asserted the attorney-
client privilege in this instance.  The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney General to 
investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law and to request documents 
in the course of that investigation, but does not give us the authority to determine whether the 
Commission’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege was justified.  See OML 2020-74; OML 
2014-22; OML 2013-7.  In conducting an investigation of an Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Attorney General may not require a public body to disclose “any documentary material which 
 
4 In its response to the complaint, the Commission maintains that Administrative Agent Wandell simply added 
standard details to the restoration work when he prepared the March 27 Letter.  The information before us suggests 
that the March 27 letter did not merely incorporate customary contingencies.  Rather, Administrative Agent Wandell 
included heightened requirements that the Commission had considered and rejected at its March 7 meeting.   
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
would be privileged.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e).6  If the complainant disagrees with the 
Commission’s assertion of privilege, he may be able to file a complaint in Superior Court to 
challenge the Commission’s decision to withhold the documents, and request that the court 
review the purportedly privileged documents.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f); G.L. c. 66, § 10A(c).   
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not v iolate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged in the complaint.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 
963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
 
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Andrew Spath (via email: )  
 Stephen W. Rider, Esq. (via email: stephen.rider@swrpc.com) 
 Pembroke Town Administrator (via email:  djodoin@townofpembrokemass.org) 
 Pembroke Town Clerk (via email: jgoff@townofpembrokemass.org) 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
 
6 Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, no notice of examination of records “shall contain any requirement which 
would be unreasonable or improper if contained in a subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the commonwealth 
or require the disclosure of any documentary material which would be privileged, or which for any other reason 
would not be required by a subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the commonwealth.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 24(e). 
