===PAGE 1===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
August 3, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 126 
 
Anthony Zarella 
Fitchburg City Council President 
718 Main Street 
Fitchburg, MA 01420 
 
By email only: azarrella@fitchburgma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Zarella: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jacquelyn Wehtje on May 23, 2023, alleging that 
the Fitchburg City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on April 23, 2023,
 1 and you responded 
on behalf of the Council by letter dated May 16.2 The complaint alleges that that the Council 
deliberated outside of a posted meeting via email and Facebook on April 23. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, the complainant’s request for further review. In addition, 
we reviewed the notice and minutes of the Council meeting held on April 26, as well as the email 
and Facebook post from April 23. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is an 11-member public body; thus, six 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 We remind the public body that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.   G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On April 19 at 3:27 P.M., the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 26. 
The notice included one topic, which was a petition from Councilor Marcus DiNatale “to end the 
use of fluoride in Fitchburg’s public water treatment.” 
 
On April 23 at 3:24 P.M., Councilor Andrew Van Hazinga sent the following email to all 
members of the Council: 
 
Good Afternoon, 
 
I’ve been looking into the water fluoridation issue for our meeting on Wednesday and 
wanted to share some helpful informational links I have come across: 
 
CDC – Community Water Fluoridation 
• Has been in place for 75 years & about 3 out of 4 Americans have access to 
fluoridated water 
• Reduces cavities in children and adults by 25%, even though access to other 
sources of fluoride have increased, such as toothpaste, rinses, and supplements. 
• Named one of the Great Public Health Achievements of the 20
th Century by the 
CDC. 
 
American Dental Association – Fluoridation 
• The best available scientific evidence has consistently shown that water 
fluoridation is safe & effective. 
• Most cost efficient way to prevent tooth decay. Lifetime cost of water fluoridation 
per person is less than the cost of one dental filling. 
• Fluoride in water is natural, it is just adjusted to the optimum level for dental 
health. Similar to fortifying salt with iodine, milk with vitamin D, orange juice 
with calcium, and bread with folic acid. 
 
Politifact – Is Fluoride in Drinking Water Toxic? 
• Fluoride is a naturally occurring element6 found in all water (naturally ranging 
from 0.1 to 12 parts per million in the US), but usually not enough to ensure 
dental health benefits (fluoride in drinking water is set to 0.7 parts per million in 
drinking water).  
• Similar to other substances commonly added to food and drinks such as salt, iron, 
vitamin D, & chlorine, fluoride is safe in small amounts but can be toxic in very 
large amounts. 
• However, it is impossible to consume enough fluoridated water to receive a toxic 
dose (a 155 lb adult male would have to drink 1,900 cups of water in one sitting). 
• Fluoride is commonly extracted from phosphate rock, which after extraction, is 
used to make fertilizer. Phosphoric acid is also extracted from phosphate rock and 
is an ingredient in Coca-Cola and other sodas.  
• Rates the claim that fluoride used in drinking water is toxic as False. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
University of Utah Heath Podcast 
• Scientists discovered the benefits of fluoride in the 1940s when they observed that 
communities with naturally high levels of fluoride in their drinking water had 
significantly better dental health than communities with naturally lower levels of 
fluoride. 
• Many studies that are cited as showing that water fluoridation is harmful have 
significant problems with bias, including sample size and location in areas with 
much higher fluoride levels than the US. 
• Recommended fluoride levels in drinking water have been continually evaluated, 
& have been lowered since they were first established in 1962 to reflect that 
people now have greater access to fluoride from other sources (such as 
toothpaste). 
• We have many safeguards in place to make sure that we do not add too much 
fluoride to our drinking water, just like we do for chlorine. 
 
Thanks, 
 
Andy Van Hazinga 
 
Later that same day at 5:31 P.M., Councilor Van Hazinga posted the following on 
Facebook: “This Wednesday the City Council is meeting as a Whole Committee to consider a 
petition to end the use of fluoride in Fitchburg’s public water supply. I wanted to share some 
useful links I came across while looking into the issue of water fluoridation as well as some 
highlights from the information presented from these sources.” He then posted on Facebook the 
exact same links and bullet points that he had earlier emailed to Council members. 
 
The April 26 meeting was held as planned.  During the meeting, the Council discussed 
whether it was necessary to continue to fluoridate the water in the City of Fitchburg and the pros 
and cons of fluoride. The Council heard from members of the public, including several doctors, 
as well as the Deputy Commissioner of Water Supply. Ultimately, the Council voted by majority 
vote to not support the petition.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136.3 
 
The complaint alleges that Councilor Van Hazinga engaged in improper deliberation 
when h
e emailed the entire Council with information on water fluoridation. The Council asserts 
that Councilor Van Hazinga was simply distributing reports or documents to be discussed at the 
April 26 meeting as expressly allowed by the Open Meeting Law. Deliberation does not include 
the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed. See OML 2015-69. Although the email was sent to a quorum of the Council and 
could be construed to include the Councilor’s opinion on a matter within the Council’s 
jurisdiction—for example, where the email describes the included factual resources as 
“helpful”—we find that, on the whole, the email simply summarized and shared information 
from independent, factual sources. As such, we find that Councilor Van Hazinga’s email fits 
within the narrow exemption to the definition of deliberation and was simply the distribution of 
reports or documents for the purpose of discussion during the April 26 meeting. See OML 2016-
172. We recognize that this is a close call and that it can be difficult to determine whether, under 
the circumstances, a given communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, 
and therefore our office specifically cautions public bodies on the use of electronic 
communications. See OML 2017-88; OML 2014-80. 
 
The complaint also alleges that Councilor Van Hazinga engaged in improper deliberation 
when he pos
ted the water fluoridation information on Facebook. The Open Meeting Law does 
not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to the general public. See OML 2017-111. 
Moreover, posting in a Facebook group that includes a quorum of members of a public body is 
not in and of itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-139; OML 2018-145. 
However, if a member of the Council were to communicate directl y with a quorum of the 
Council over social media platforms such as Facebook, such communication may violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We have reviewed the Facebook posts provided to us by the complainant 
and find that the post by Councilor Van Hazinga was directed to members of the public rather 
than spe
cifically to a quorum of the Council. See OML 2017-111; 2015-15 (Open Meeting law 
restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public body outside of a meeting, 
indicating that the communicator's intent must be examined). Moreover, we find no evidence that 
a quorum of Council members responded to the post. Therefore, we find that the Council did not 
engage in deliberation outside of a posted meeting and thus we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Bethany Salah, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc: Jacquelyn Wehtje – By email only:  
  Fitchburg City  Clerk – By email only: mdealderete@fitchburgma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
