===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
February 3, 2020
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
OML 2020 -11
Jennifer H. Beaton
Deputy City Solicitor
City of Worcester Law Department
City Hall, Room 301
455 Main Street
Worcester, MA 01608
RE: Open  Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Beaton:
On October 41 this office received a complaint filed by Matthew Marro, alleging that the 
Worcester Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on September 4, and 
you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated September 18.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
In his complaint, Mr. Marro alleges that Chairperson Joseph Charpentier, Commissioner 
Christian Escobar, and staff member Stefanie Covino violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing Mr. Marro’s “character, job performance and professional credentials” in open 
session on August 5 knowing that Mr. Marro was out of town and without providing him with 
individual notice. Additionally, Mr. Marro contends that he had a right under G.L. c. 30A,
§ 21(a)(1) (“Purpose l”)2 to compel this discussion to occur in executive session.
As an initial matter, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to meet in executive 
session for a limited number of purposes but never requires a public body to meet in executive 
session. See OML 2019-150, n. 4; OML 2011-53 (“The Board has sole discretion to determine 
what matters will be heard in executive session.”). Therefore, even if the Commission had 
discussed Mr. Marro’s character in open session, this would not constitute a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law. Additionally, Mr. Marro would not have had any right to compel the 
Commission to convene in executive session; Purpose 1 only provides the subject of the
1 All dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.
2 Mr. Marro cites to an earlier version of the Open Meeting Law. The current version appears at Chapter 30A, §§ 18-
25.

===PAGE 2===
discussion the right to compel the discussion to take place in open session, not executive session. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Finally, after review of the video recording of the August 5 meeting, 
we find that the portion of the discussion pertaining to Mr. Marro related to his professional 
competence, which may not be discussed in executive session under Purpose 1. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(1) (a public body may enter into executive session under Purpose 1 “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” (emphasis added)).
For the above reasons, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it discussed Mr. Marro’s professional competence in open session on August 5. We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Commission. 
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Worcester Conservation Commission
Matthew Marro 
John M. Dombrowski, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
2
