===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
  
  May 7, 2020         OML 2020 – 56   Regina Williams Tate, Esq. Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 Quincy, MA 02169  By e-mail only: gtate@mhtl.com   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  Dear Attorney Tate:   This office received a complaint from Kathleen Russotto on January 2, 2019, and a complaint from Paula Leahy Welch on February 4, 2019, alleging that the Longmeadow School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Ms. Russotto’s complaint was filed with the Committee on November 30, and Attorney Jennifer King responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated December 19.  Ms. Leahy Welch’s complaint was filed with the Committee on December 28, and Attorney King responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated January 18, 2019.2  Both complaints allege that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  In addition, Ms. Russotto’s complaint alleges that a quorum of members of the Evaluation Subcommittee (the “Subcommittee”) deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.   We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following our review, we find that a quorum of the Subcommittee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.  However, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the minutes of the Subcommittee’s November 6 meeting, the                                                 1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 2 Attorney King was legal counsel for the Committee at the time that both complaints were filed and she responded to the complaints on behalf of the Committee. 
===PAGE 2===
  
2  
minutes of the Committee’s November 14 meeting, and a video recording of the Committee’s January 8, 2019, meeting.3  In addition, we communicated with Attorney King by e-mail on April 7, 2020, spoke with you by telephone on April 8, 2020, and spoke with Ms. Leahy Welch by telephone on April 9, 2020.  Finally, we communicated with former Committee members Kerrin Morrin and Stephanie Jasmin by e-mail on April 13, 2020.    FACTS  We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a seven-member public body; thus, any four members constitute a quorum.  The Subcommittee is a subcommittee of the Committee and a three-member public body; thus, any two members constitute a quorum.   On October 30, Committee Chair Beth Baron, Vice-Chair Kerrin Morrin and member Stephanie Jasmin met with the Superintendent.  Ms. Baron and Ms. Morrin are also members of the Subcommittee.  The purpose of the Subcommittee was to be “a tool” to help the Superintendent improve upon certain issues and concerns raised during his last evaluation.  The exact discussions that occurred during the October 30 meeting are in dispute.  In response to Ms. Russotto’s complaint, Attorney Jennifer King, legal counsel for the Committee, stated that the discussions revolved around the social and emotional learning curriculum, which is a matter only within the jurisdiction of the Committee and not the Subcommittee.  However, the Subcommittee’s November 6 meeting minutes indicate that the October 30 discussions related to the Superintendent’s ability to communicate with and share feedback between the Committee and school administrators.4   Between November 7 and November 10, five Committee members, including Chair Baron, Vice-Chair Morrin and Melanie Rothstein, attended the annual conference of the Massachusetts Association of School Committees (the “MASC”) in Hyannis.  On November 12, Chair Baron received an e-mail from a Longmeadow resident that purportedly summarized a recent telephone conversation that resident had with Chair Baron, and set forth an outline for the Committee’s November 14 meeting.  Specifically, the e-mail included references to a decision on the renewal of the Superintendent’s contract, including that the Committee voted not to renew the contract and that an Interim Superintendent would be hired for the remainder of the year.  During the November 14 meeting, the Committee voted not to renew the Superintendent’s contract, with Chair Baron, Vice-Chair Morrin, Ms. Jasmin and Ms. Rothstein voting against the contract renewal.    During a January 8, 2019, Committee meeting, the Superintendent stated, in response to a question from a citizen, that he was told sometime during the MASC conference by “the Chair and Co-Chair that . . . I didn’t have the votes to be renewed.”  Chair Baron clarified that she only told the Superintendent that he did not have “the Chair’s support going forward.”  On January                                                 3 A video recording of the Committee’s January 8 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LsaERJ35cDU. 4 We also received two letters from School Department employees who overheard the discussions on October 30.  Both letters indicate that the nature of those discussions related to the Superintendent’s response to an email from a Committee member and the Superintendent’s response to communications between a Committee member and teachers. 
===PAGE 3===
  
3  
23, 2019, Chair Baron, Vice-Chair Morrin, Ms. Jasmin and Ms. Rothstein resigned from the Committee.  DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except in an emergency, “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A subcommittee of a public body is itself a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.     Ms. Russotto’s complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated on October 30 outside of a properly posted meeting.  We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting where the discussions on October 30 occurred between three Committee members, which is not a quorum of the Committee.  See OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69; OML 2015-77; OML 2011-52.  However, we find that the October 30 discussions did involve two out of three members of the Subcommittee, and thus a quorum, and that those discussions related to the performance of the Superintendent, which was a matter that fell within the Subcommittee’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2013-163.  As such, we find that a quorum of the Subcommittee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting on October 30, and therefore violated the Open Meeting Law.   Ms. Leahy Welch’s complaint alleges that a quorum of the Committee deliberated about the Superintendent’s contract sometime between November 6 and November 14 outside of a properly posted meeting.  The Committee contends that Chair Baron, Vice-Chair Morrin, Ms. Jasmin and Ms. Rothstein, who together constitute a quorum, did not discuss the Superintendent’s contract prior to the November 14 meeting.  We note that the November 12     e-mail to Chair Baron suggests that some discussions regarding the renewal of the Superintendent’s contract did indeed occur prior to the November 14 meeting.  However, both Ms. Morrin and Ms. Jasmin specifically state that they did not speak with any other Committee member about the Superintendent’s contract outside of the November 14 open session meeting, and we find no evidence contradicting their statements.  Accordingly, we find that a quorum of the Committee did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.    Although we do not find evidence of deliberation outside of a meeting by the Committee, we take this opportunity to remind the Committee that any communication among a quorum of a 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
4 
 
public body on matters that are pending or will come before it and within the public body’s 
jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; 
Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).  Moreover, the 
expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to 
a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds.  See 
OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33.  A public body may not engage in a serial deliberation, whereby 
a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular 
subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction.  See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 
637, 648-49 (2008); OML 2014-93.  Furthermore, a public body may not use a non-member, 
such as a staff member, to facilitate communication on matters that the Board would otherwise 
save for discussion at an open meeting.  See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School 
Committee of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) (“Governmental bodies may not 
circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private 
messages, whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form.”). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law when a quorum of the Subcommittee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting on 
October 30.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kathleen Russotto – By e-mail only: krussotto@longmeadow.k12.ma.us 
Paula Leahy Welch – By e-mail only:  
Longmeadow School Committee – By e-mail only: 
schoolcommittee@longmeadow.k12.ma.us 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
