===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 111 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
David M. Connelly, Esq. 
Morgan Brown & Joy 
dconnelly@morganbrown.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Connelly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Coco of WHAV Public Media of New 
England on October 5, 2023,
1 alleging that the Haverhill City School Council (the “Council”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on August 28.  The Committee did not timely respond to the complaint, nor did it 
respond to a follow-up inquiry from this office on October 5.
2  Ultimately, following additional 
requests, you responded to the complaint and provided additional information, on behalf of the 
Committee, on April 18, 2024.  The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it convened in executive session on August 24.
3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to adequately describe the litigation matters to be discussed during its August 24 
executive session meeting.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint 
and the complainant’s request for review of the complaint.  We also reviewed the response and 
supplemental documentation provided by the Committee.  In addition, we reviewed the notice 
for the Committee’s August 24 meeting as well as the open and executive session minutes of that 
 
1 Except where indicated, all dates refer to the year 2023. 
2 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
3 The complaint also alleges that Committee members violated ethics laws by engaging in discussions with members 
of the Haverhill Education Association prior to the August 24 meeting and violated elections laws by coordinating 
with union members to win the union’s support and advance their own reelection bids.  The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We do not review, and offer no opinion 
on, whether the Committee may have violated other laws outside the Division’s purview.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting.  Finally, we reviewed a video of the open session portion of the Committee’s August 24 
meeting.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In August 2023, the Haverhill School Department was 
engaged in litigation against the Haverhill Education Association (“HEA”), the union that 
represents the city’s teachers, related to HEA’s participation in an illegal four-day strike in 
October 2022.  In particular, the School Department sought to recoup approximately $500,000 in 
costs that it had incurred as a result of the strike, including additional pay to staff members for 
the added school days.  
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to take place on August 24 at 7:00 PM.  The 
notice included the following topic: “5. Executive Session/Adjournment: The Haverhill School 
Committee will go into executive session to discuss negotiation strategies regarding the 
secretarial unit of the HEA and litigation matters and to not reconvene in open session.”  The 
Committee convened the meeting as scheduled.  After conducting other business, the Chair 
inquired whether there would be an executive session, and a designee read the same text from the 
meeting notice.   
 
During the executive session, the Committee discussed dropping its lawsuit against the 
HEA, as well as conditions that would be necessary in order for it to agree to drop its lawsuit.  
The Committee voted by roll call to drop its lawsuit, with conditions. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first, among other things, convened in an open session and that the chair has 
stated the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); 
see also OML 2014-94.
5  One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “Purpose 3,” 
“[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(3). 
 
Exec
utive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
 
4 A video of the Committee’s August 24 meeting is available at http://haverhillcommunitytv.org/video/haverhill -
school-committee-meeting-august-24-2023.  Relevant portions begin at minute 42:47.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper.”).  When convening in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss 
litigation strategy, both the meeting notice and the announcement before entering into executive 
generally must identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the 
executive session purpose.  See OML 2020-47; OML 2014-50.  While we generally defer to a 
public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the 
purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for that claim if challenged.  See OML 2016-146. 
 
We find that neither the meeting notice nor the announcement of the purpose for entering 
exec
utive session on August 24 adequately identified the specific litigation matter to be 
discussed, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The Committee has not suggested that 
identifying the litigation matter would have compromised the purpose for the executive session; 
it has only explained that the agenda referred generally to litigation rather than identifying the 
particular matters because of “the complexities of the pending litigation and the various forums 
in which those cases were housed.”  Although identifying a pending litigation matter to be 
discussed in executive session by case name and docket number is preferred, we have found that 
identifying the parties to the litigation is sufficient.  See OML 2012-89 (explaining that the 
meeting notice should have specifically stated the names of the pending litigation matters the 
Board anticipated discussing.); OML 2019-32 (finding a notice sufficient where it identified the 
litigation matter to be discussed by case name and docket number); OML 2017-43 (finding a 
meeting notice sufficient where it identified the parties but not the case docket number); OML 
2020-79; OML 2019-64.  Here, the meeting notice and announcement provided no descriptive 
information whatsoever about the litigation matter(s) to be discussed, and therefore the notice 
and announcement were insufficient.   
 
To the extent the complaint can be construed as also alleging tha
 t the matters discussed in 
executive session on August 24 were inappropriate for discussion in executive session, we find, 
after reviewing the minutes of the executive session, that the Committee permissibly discussed 
strategy with respect to pending litigation, and in particular, a potential settlement or resolution 
of the litigation.  Discussions of litigation strategy, including discussions of settlement, are 
permitted in executive session under Purpose 3.  See OML 2023-191; OML 2021-27; OML 
2015-45 (“Discussion of settlement is clearly part of litigation strategy, and appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 3.”). 
 
 As
 a remedy for the violations that we find here, the complainant requests that we nullify 
action taken during the August 24 executive session.  Upon receipt of this complaint, the 
Committee halted any further action regarding the litigation.  It then discussed the litigation in 
open session at its next two meetings, after listing the specific litigation matters on the respective 
meeting notices, and took no action on the litigation until its October 26 open session meeting.  
We find that the Committee has already taken sufficient remedial action, and therefore we 
decline to nullify the vote taken during the August 24 executive session.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to adequately describe the litigation matters to be discussed during its August 24 
executive session.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Timothy Coco (via email: ) 
Haverhill School Committee (via email to Secretary Beverly McGillicuddy: 
Beverly.mcgillicuddy@haverhill-ps.org) 
 Haverhill City Clerk (via email: kwright@cityofhaverhill.com) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
