===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 97 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jesse W. Belcher-Timme, Esq. 
Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury & Murphy, P.C. 
jtimme@dwpm.com 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Belcher-Timme: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on January 19, 2024, alleging that 
the Greenfield City Council (the “Council”), and specifically Council President Daniel Guin, 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Council on or about December 26, 2023, and, after an extension of time granted by our 
office, you responded on behalf of the Council by letter dated January 19, 2024. The complaint 
alleges that the Council failed to timely review executive session minutes in response to a 
request for minutes.
1  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Council’s response, the request for further review, and the City’s website for meeting notices.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the relevant facts to be as follows. On December 14, 2023,
2 at 11:12 p.m., the 
Complainant sent an email to the Council requesting, among other things, “all executive session 
 
1 The complaint alleges additional violations related to the Council’s November 29, 2023, meeting; however, based 
on the request for further review, we understand the Complainant to only seek review of the allegation related to his 
request for executive session minutes. Therefore, we limit our review to th at allegation. 
2 All dates are in 2023 unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes of the City Council for calendar years 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023.”3 The Council’s next 
meeting following this request was held on December 20.  
 
On December 21, the City Clerk sent the Complainant a message informing him that the 
Council would review the requested executive session minutes at its January 17 meeting. The 
City Clerk also informed the Complainant that it was anticipated that any minutes the Council 
determined should be released would be provided to the Complainant by January 24, 2024. The 
Council reviewed the requested executive session minutes during its January 17, 2024, meeting 
and as of the date of the response to the present complaint, executive session minutes had not yet 
been provided to the Complainant.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public for “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose 
for the executive session has been served, “the minutes, preparatory materials and documents 
and exhibits of the session shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of 
the exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any portion 
thereof, from disclosure.” Id.  
 
Public bodies have an obligation to review executive sessions minutes at reasonable 
inte
rvals to determine if continued non-disclosure of the minutes is warranted, and to announce 
that determination at the next open session meeting following this review. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(1). A public body must respond within ten calendar days to a request for executive 
session minutes made under the Open Meeting Law, providing any minutes it has previously 
determined may no longer be withheld under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(g)(2). If at the time of the request the public body has not recently performed a periodic 
review of the requested minutes as required under section 22(g)(1), the public body must 
“perform the review and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than 
the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); see also, 
OML 2016-135 (“When a periodic review has not been recently conducted, the Open Meeting 
Law requires a public body to conduct this review upon receiving a request for executive session 
minutes.”).
4  
 
 Here, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to review the 
requested executive session minutes at its next meeting following the request. We acknowledge 
that the Clerk did respond to the Complainant within 10 calendar days informing him that the 
executive session minutes would need to be reviewed, which was the appropriate thing to do; 
 
3 The complaint alleges that this request was made on December 12; however, the evidence provided makes clear 
that the request was made after business hours on December 14.  
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
however, the Council then needed to perform that review by its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever would occur first.5   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely review executive session minutes in response to a request for minutes. We order 
the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Greenfield City Council c/o Kathryn Scott, City Clerk and Clerk to the City Council  
(via email: kathy.scott@greenfield-ma.gov)  
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 The Council’s response suggests that our office granted an extension of time to review the executive session 
minutes. That is not the case. On January 4, 2024, our office granted an extension of time to respond to the present 
Open Meeting Law complaint, not an extension of time to review the requested executive session minutes.  
