===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 30, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 182 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch St.  
Boston, MA 02110 
 
jaustin@k-plaw.com 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
 
This office received complaints from Amy DiSibio, Veronica Bonnet and Vallorie 
Oliver, on behalf of ACK for Whales, on July 2, 2024, alleging that the Nantucket Offshore 
Wind Work Group (the “Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The 
complaints were originally filed with the Group on May 2, and you served a consolidated 
response on behalf of the Town of Nantucket (“the Town”) by letter dated June 14.1  The three 
complaints allege that the Group is a public body and that it failed to conform to the Open 
Meeting Law, including by failing to post notices of meetings.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Group was not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.  Therefore, there was no violation as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Town’s response, and the complainants’ requests for 
further review.  We reviewed minutes of the meeting of the Select Board (“the Board”) held on 
February 20, 2019.  Finally, we communicated with you via email.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The entire island of Nantucket was designated a national 
historic landmark in 1975.  Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act requires 
Federal agencies to consider the impact of Federally funded projects on historic resources.  54 
USC 306108.  Some Federal action related to th e development of off -shore wind farms  
implicates Section 106 and its implementing regulations, 36 CFR 800, “Protection of 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Historic Properties .”2  The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (“BOEM”) is the lead 
Federal agency for offshore energy exploration and development.3  BOEM regulations require 
renewable energy developers to provide the results of detailed site characterization surveys prior 
to technical and environmental review of an applicant’s development plan.4    
 
Lauren Sinatra is the Energy Coordinator for the Town.  At a meeting of the Board held 
on February 20, 2019, the Board designated Ms. Sinatra to be the Town’s point of contact with 
offshore leaseholders pursuing wind projects.  The Board also recommended the appointment of 
a town administrative working group to represent the island’s interests in discussions with 
offshore wind developers.  The Board did not appoint any individuals to the Group.   
 
In July 2019, the Town retained Cultural Heritage Partners (“CHP”) as special counsel to 
assist during the Section 106 review process.  CHP is a law firm which promotes itself as an 
advocate for clients during Section 106 permitting reviews, seeking location and design changes 
to minimize the impact of development on historic resources.  Once CHP was retained, Town 
Administration determined that the Group should consist of Energy Coordinator Lauren Sinatra, 
Preservation Planner Holly Backus, and CHP.  The Group’s webpage, accessible through the 
Town website, lists 13 “consulting members,” two “staff liaisons” (the Energy Coordinator and 
Preservation Planner) and two legal advisers (both of CHP).
5  The thirteen consulting members 
were invited to attend meetings by staff liaisons and the Town administration.  Consulting 
members included, on an as-needed basis, other Nantucket parties with experience in the Federal 
Government’s Section 106 review process, persons with expertise in offshore wind development, 
and/or members of staff, boards or committees who attended Group meetings to keep their 
respective bodies informed of developments.   
 
The Select Board has exclusive authority to execute agreements with offshore 
leaseholders.  The Group did not issue any formal written reports or findings.  It was not subject 
to a formal charge and was not empowered to vote.  The Group had no quorum requirement and 
no individual was required to attend meetings.  Members attended at their sole discretion.  In 
response to the complaint, the Select Board dissolved the Group. 
 
On April 30, Lauren Sinatra sent an email to Holly Backus and Claire O’Brien, with the 
subject line “TOMORROW! Offshore Wind Update (11am – 1pm) on Zoom.”  The text of the 
email indicated that CHP would provide an ‘Offshore Wind Update’ by Zoom, and listed 
specific topics to be addressed, including Town Meeting articles advanced by complainant 
Vallorie Oliver.  Also on April 30, the Group emailed the complainants, inviting them to the 
May 1 meeting and including a link to join.  When the complainants attempted to sign on to the 
meeting, they were placed in the virtual waiting room, and eventually received the following 
message: “The host has removed you from the meeting.”  After multiple attempts, they were 
unable to join the meeting. 
 
2 https://www.achp.gov/digital-library-section-106-landing/what-about-wind-farm-project-triggers-section-106. 
3 https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/new-england-mid-atlantic/science-data/offshore-wind-energy-development-new-
england-mid-atlantic-waters.  
4 https://www.boem.gov/renewable-energy/state-activities/historic-preservation-activities-and-offshore-renewable-
energy. 
5 https://nantucket-ma.gov/1396/Offshore-Wind-Work-Group. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.    
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, it 
must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
6  
 
Applying the second of these three factors, we find that the Group was not a public body 
because it was not empowered to act collectively.  In analyzing whether a body satisfies the 
second factor, we have looked to whether its purpose is to work collaboratively.  See OML 2024-
86; OML 2021-95; OML 2016-116.  For example, we found that a Planning Advisory 
Committee was not a public body where it was composed of individuals who represented various 
interests and expertise, providing their own individual feedback to a private engineering firm that 
was hired to update an airport master plan.  See OML 2022-54.  In that case, meetings were 
opportunities for members to efficiently provide their individual feedback and expertise; the 
engineering firm decided whether to incorporate the feedback into its plan.  Id.  We also have 
found the second factor unsatisfied where a group has no set membership and lacks authority to 
take action, with Select Board members serving only as liaisons to keep the Select Board 
informed.  See OML 2023-149.  See also OML 2013-56 (body that has no quorum requirements, 
takes no votes, makes no formal recommendations to a public body and is not empowered with 
decision-making or policy-advisory authority does not constitute a public body); OML 2023-231 
(Stakeholder Group that had no fixed membership, had no quorum requirement, took no votes 
and was created to share information, ideas and advice with Department of Environmental 
Protection staff did not satisfy the second factor).   
   
 The Town website lists specific individuals as “consulting members” on the Group.  
However, the Town has clarified that the Group had no defined membership and that attendance 
depended on the availability of the specific individuals.  On occasion, only Town staff and CHP 
would attend a Group meeting, without including any of the consulting members.7 The Group 
had no quorum requirement.  Invitees were not required to attend meetings.  The Group took no 
votes and made no formal recommendations.  It had no policy-making authority but was created 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
7 The Group’s webpage, which is within the Town website and lists consulting members by name, gives the 
appearance of a formal appointed public body.  However, the facts provided by the Town militate against such a 
conclusion.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 
2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
as a means for stakeholders to share their expertise regarding offshore wind projects, which are 
subject to a complex regulatory framework.  Input from the Group assisted Energy Coordinator 
Sinatra, who was appointed as the point person for offshore leaseholders, and the Board, which 
had exclusive authority to execute agreements with those leaseholders.  For these reasons, we 
find that the Group was not a body empowered to act collectively, and thus fails the second 
factor of the “public body” analysis.8  Therefore, we need not address the first and third factors, 
and we conclude that the Group was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group wa s not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  We now 
consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does 
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Group.  Please feel 
free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Nantucket Town Administrator (via email: townadministration@nantucket-ma.gov) 
Amy Disibio (via email: ) 
Vallorie Oliver (via email: ) 
Veronica Bonnet (via email: ) 
Nantucket Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@nantucket-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
8 Because we find that the Group was not a public body, we do not address the Town’s argument that the complaint 
is untimely as to all meetings except that of May 1. 
