===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 20, 2020 
OML 2020 - 25
Susan Pacht 
General Counsel
Board of Registration in Medicine 
200 Harvard Mill Square, Suite 330 
Wakefield, MA 01880
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Pacht:
This office received a complaint from Attorney Andrew Hyams on January 8, 2019, 
alleging that the Board of Registration in Medicine (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 7, 
2018; and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 29, 2018. The 
complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting and issued an order 
denying a license that “the Board never voted.”
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the Board’s response to the 
complaint for further review. We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the 
Board’s October 11, 2018, meeting, as well as a transcript of the open and executive session 
meeting that was held on October 11, 2018. Finally, we spoke with Assistant General Counsel 
Gerard Dolan and Board member Woody Giessmann by telephone on February 6, 2020.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a seven-member public body; thus, four 
members constitute a quorum. The complainant represents a physician whose application for
1 Dr. Robin Richman is no longer a member of the Board.

===PAGE 2===
licensure was being considered by the Board. The complainant appeared, along with the 
applicant physician, at a Board meeting held on October 11, 2018.
During the public portion of the October 11, 2018, meeting, the Board discussed updating 
the physician license application form, as well as the application’s instructions, approved 
numerous licensing applications and approved minutes from its September 27, 2018, meeting.
The Board then convened in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1), to 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health of the applicant physician. 
Board Chair Dr. Candace Sloan recused herself, left the meeting room, and did not participate in 
the executive session discussions regarding this applicant physician. The applicant and the 
complainant were permitted to attend the executive session, and the applicant addressed the 
Board regarding her qualifications for licensure. Concerned that the applicant physician’s 
license was under investigation in two other states, the Board discussed granting the applicant 
physician a full license, a full license with restrictions, or preliminarily denying the application. 
Initially, three members (Dr. George Abraham, Mr. Woody Giessmann and Dr. Julian Robinson) 
were not comfortable granting a license and three members (Dr. Michael Medlock, Dr. Robin 
Richman and Mr. Paul Gitlin) were comfortable granting a license with restrictions. The Board 
then took a “straw vote” in which a majority of members (Dr. Medlock, Dr. Richman, Mr. Gitlin 
and Mr. Giessmann) agreed to grant a full license with restrictions and the Board then discussed 
a proposed set of restrictions. Mr. Giessmann stated that he wanted “to be favorable” and 
therefore voted for a license with restrictions.
Approximately two hours later, the Board reconvened in open session and, without 
further discussion, Dr. Robinson, who had earlier voted to deny the license, moved to 
preliminarily deny the license application.2 Mr. Giessmann responded stating “I can just go on 
record and say that I’m going back to my initial vote. Prior to the straw vote, and that was to 
deny.” Mr. Gitlin expressed his surprise that the Board was now considering denying the 
application and specifically asked whether there was “consideration or argument that I’m not 
aware of?” Dr. Richman and Mr. Giessmann, who were in support of granting a full license with 
restrictions during the “straw vote,” individually responded that their initial decision was to deny 
the application, that they considered the alternative of granting a full license with restrictions 
discussed during the executive session, but ultimately decided to deny the application. The 
Board then voted, 4-2, to preliminarily deny the applicant physician’s license application.
By letter dated October 12, 2018, the Board informed the complainant that it had voted to 
preliminarily deny his client’s license application. An “Order of Preliminary Denial” 
accompanied the letter, which provided the grounds for denial including practicing medicine in 
another state with a lapsed license and “conduct which places into question the physician’s 
competence to practice medicine.”
2 At the conclusion of the executive session, the Board reconvened in open session for approximately 30 minutes 
and then convened an adjudicatory session for approximately one hour. The Board then reconvened in open session 
about 20 minutes after its adjudicatory session concluded.
2

===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” IT For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
During the October 11, 2018, meeting, the Board discussed and informally voted in executive 
session to grant the applicant physician a full license with restrictions. When the Board 
reconvened in open session two hours later, a motion was made to preliminarily deny the full 
license and, without further discussion, a majority of the Board then voted to preliminarily deny 
the license application. Because the Board had informally agreed, during the executive session, 
to grant a license with restrictions, the complainant asserts that there must have been discussions 
“behind the scenes that led to that open session in which” the license application was denied.
Mr. Giessmann asserts that he did not speak with Dr. Richman or any other member of the Board 
about this license application after the conclusion of the executive session and before the Board 
reconvened in open session on October 11, 2018. The two Board members who changed their 
position following the straw vote each explained during the open session portion of the meeting 
that they had initially favored denying the application, and ultimately voted accordingly. Absent 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s version of events that it did not 
deliberate outside of the October 11, 2018, meeting. See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122. 
Furthermore, we have stated in prior determinations that agreement without substantive 
discussion among public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote 
is insufficient to support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting. See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128.3 We also note that, although we 
find no evidence of any discussion among Board members outside of the meeting, discussion 
that reached three or fewer members out of the seven-member Board would not constitute 
deliberation in any event. Accordingly, we find no evidence that the Board deliberated outside 
of a noticed meeting and therefore we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
The complaint also alleges that the Board issued an order denying the license that the 
Board never voted on during its October 11, 2018, meeting. By letter dated October 12, 2018, 
the Board informed the complainant that it had voted to preliminarily deny his client’s license 
application and issued an “Order of Preliminary Denial” explaining the grounds for denying the 
application. The complainant suggests that since the Board did not specifically discuss the 
grounds for denying the application during its October 11, 2018, meeting it must have secretly 
approved the order. The Board states that a draft order was provided to it as part of the October
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
11, 2018, meeting materials. We note that the act of signing an order outside of a meeting is not 
itself improper deliberation. If a public body makes a decision during a properly posted meeting, 
it may take related administrative action with respect to that decision, such as signing or 
executing a document, outside of a meeting. See OML 2013-160; 2013-84; OML 2013-4. Here, 
the Board discussed, in executive session, its concerns with the applicant’s conduct in other 
states and further discussed whether to grant or deny a license. The Board then, in open session, 
preliminarily denied the license application. We find that the execution of the order outside of a 
meeting was an administrative task and not improper deliberation. Moreover, the Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to deliberate on a matter prior to voting on the matter. See 
OML 2019-130. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Andrew Hyams, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
