===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
WVTO'.ITI ass.gov/ago 
December 15, 2015 
OML 2015- 190 
James Deroian, Chair 
Townsend Conservation Commission 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Deroian; 
This office received two complaints from Karen Hill on September 17,1 alleging that 
the Townsend Conservation Commission (the Commission) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
GL. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, The complaints were originally filed with the Commission on or about 
July 17, and you responded, on behalf of the Commission, to the complaints by letter dated 
July 30.2 In one complaint, Ms. Hill alleges that the minutes from the Commission's May 27 
meeting were not approved in a timely manner. In her other complaint, Ms. Hill alleges that 
during its July 8 meeting, the Commission discussed topics that were not listed on the notice 
at least 48 hours before the meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing topics during its July 8 meeting that were not included on the notice. However, 
we find no violation with respect to the Commission's approval of its May 27 meeting 
minutes. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Commission's 
response to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice of and minutes from the Commission's July 8 meeting. Finally, 
on October 6 we spoke with Conservation Agent Leslie Gabrilska. 
We find the facts as follows. During its July 8 meeting, the Commission discussed 
certain items of correspondence involving the complainant. These items were not included in 
the meeting notice that was posted to the town website on July 6, although they were included 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
on a revised agenda that was not posted, but was distributed at the meeting. Specifically, 
during the meeting the Commission discussed a letter it received on June 23 from the 
complainant concerning certain public records requests and an Open Meeting Law complaint; 
a letter from our office it received on July 2 concerning an Open Meeting Law complaint filed 
by the complainant; and a letter from the Supervisor of Records it received on June 23 
concerning public records requests submitted by the complainant. Conservation Agent Leslie 
Gabrilska, who assists the chair by drafting the Commission's meeting notices, did not add 
these items to the July 8 notice before posting it, even though she intended to present these 
items to the Board during the meeting. Ms. Gabrilska contends that leading up to this 
meeting, she had been on vacation for two and a half weeks and was unable to add the topics 
to the notice in time for posting.3 Chair Deroian did not recall whether Ms. Gabrilska made 
him aware of any specific correspondence prior to the July 8 meeting. 
The Commission meets roughly once per month and has a practice of generally 
approving minutes at its next meeting. The Commission's May 27 meeting minutes, 
however, were not approved until September 23. The May 27 minutes reflected a discussion 
held during the meeting that the Commission deemed sensitive, therefore it spent time 
revising the drafts in order to reach a consensus among its members. Drafts of the minutes 
were presented to the Commission for approval during most of its subsequent meetings,4 but 
the Commission either failed to approve or "tabled" them each time. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays," and 
that every notice must include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Public bodies must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). The 
Conservation Agent had been delegated the task of drafting the July 8 notice by the chair. 
Because she knew at the time of posting this notice that she planned to discuss these specific 
items of correspondence at issue, she should have included those items on the July 8 notice. 
See OML 2014-54,5 Her failure to do so violated the Open Meeting Law. While the chair 
may delegate the task of drafting notices to another individual, such as an employee, the chair 
and the public body remain responsible for complying with the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2013-147. Accordingly, the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
However, the Commission's delayed approval of its May 27 meeting minutes did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. Public bodies have an obligation to "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). These 
meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner, G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
Although the Open Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we recommend that 
3 The notice had to be posted by 7:30 PM on July 6, which was the day after the July 4th holiday weekend. 
4 The Commission did not review the minutes during its July 8 meeting. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: https://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting, whenever possible. See OML 2014-
15; OML 2012-91. Here, although the minutes were not approved at the Commission's next 
meeting, the Commission made good faith- albeit unsuccessful- efforts to timely approve the 
minutes. Accordingly, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing topics that were not included on the notice. We therefore order the 
Commission's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Hill 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c, 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 