===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 11 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
By email only:   
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Leah Reichner on August 3, 2022, alleging that the 
Oxford Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 30, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by a letter dated July 21, 2022. The complaint alleges that the 
Board discussed a topic during its June 21, 2022, meeting that was not included on the meeting 
notice, and that its June 7, 20221, meeting minutes were insufficient. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
created insufficient minutes of its June 7 meeting. We do not find a violation in the other ways 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed video 
recordings of the June 7 and June 21 meetings, and the notices and minutes from the June 7 and 
June 21 meetings. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During the “Selectmen’s Community Announcements” 
portion of the Board’s June 7 meeting, Selectman Robert King stated, “I am announcing that at 
our next meeting I am going to bring up discussion for public comment, since that matter needs 
to be off [sic] through Mr. Chairman.” Chairman Norman LeBlanc asked, “Public comment for 
what?” Selectman King responded, “This is related to the article [inaudible] public comment 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
inside the Board of Selectman meetings.” At the next meeting on June 21, during the 
“Selectmen’s Community Announcements” portion, Chairman LeBlanc explained that the 
purpose of this discussion topic was to feature general community happenings such as 
community events attended by the Selectmen, a time to acknowledge achievements by town 
citizens, and highlight community projects. The following interaction transpired.  
Selectman King: Can we have discussion on that Mr. Chairman? 
Chairman LeBlanc: Sure. 
Selectman King: Unfortunately, our agenda doesn’t really provide Selectmen an 
opportunity to really talk about, or suggest things publicly, that belong on the 
agenda. You know, and it’s my opinion that we should just roll out public 
comment just in the same manner as the school committee has. 
Chairman LeBlanc: You’re getting off topic. This is something that I’ve told 
you before, Robert. If there is anything you want to bring up for conversation you 
need to email me your request and I will consider it. 
Selectman King stated that he did email Chairman LeBlanc, who responded that he never 
received the email. Selectman King said he will forward the email again. The following 
discussion continued.  
Chairman LeBlanc: You can forward it again, and you have to understand, as 
Chairman, it’s my responsibility to make a decision, ok? And this is exactly what 
I’m talking about. Public announcements is not made to discuss things you want 
to put on the agenda, ok? That’s totally out of character of what it’s meant to be.  
Chairman LeBlanc then reiterated that requests for discussion topics should be emailed to him 
for consideration. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law Where the Chair Declined to 
Place a Topic on the June 21 Meeting Notice and a Selectman Raised the Topic. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). “Notice shall ... contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. The Open Meeting 
Law does not require the chair of a public body to guess what will occur at a meeting. See OML 
2018-119; OML 2013-197.2 A public body may amend a notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a 
previously unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 
2020-29; OML 2019-131. Although a Chair generally may be aware that a matter is ongoing, the 
Open Meeting Law only requires the meeting notice to contain the topics the Chair reasonably 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
anticipates discussing at the particular meeting for which the notice is posted. See OML 2018-
159.  
At the June 7 meeting, duri ng the “Selectmen’s Community Announcements” portion, 
Selectman King stated that he intended to discuss the possibility of having public comment for 
Board of Selectmen meetings at the next meeting. At the June 21 meeting, also during the 
“Selectmen’s Community Announcements” portion, Selectman King raised the issue of public 
comment as he stated he would, and Chairman LeBlanc ceased discussion of that topic because 
the public comments topic was not included in the June 21 meeting notice and was outside the 
scope of “Selectmen’s Community Announcements.” Even though Selectman King previously 
stated his desire to raise the topic and then did so, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law because there was no actual discussion of the topic. Where a public body does not actually 
engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice. See OML 2019-94; OML 2016-76; OML 2015-
37.  
Additionally, the Open  Meeting Law requires an examination of the chair’s intent in 
drafting the agenda when determining whether a topic was reasonably anticipated by the chair 
such that it must be included on the meeting notice in order for the topic to be discussed. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Where the chair of a public body, or her agent, declines to add a topic to 
the meeting notice because she does not anticipate a discussion taking place during the meeting 
in question, it is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law when someone else introduces that 
topic at a meeting. See OML 2017-195; OML 2014-110; OML 2013-197. Nonetheless, a 
discussion on a topic that the chair declined to include on the meeting notice, even if technically 
permissible, would certainly violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law to the public’s detriment. 
See OML 2017-195. Here, Chairman LeBlanc acted appropriately in ceasing discussion of the 
topic that Selectman King raised.  
Furthermore, the Ope n Meeting Law does not govern the process by which a chair 
decides to add topics to the meeting notice. See OML Declination 05-15-19 (Dracut Housing 
Authority Board of Commissioners). Nor does the Law require the chair to add topics to a notice 
that are requested by fellow members of the public body. See OML 2022-140. While we 
encourage public bodies to be responsive to issues raised by members of the public or members 
of the public body, the Open Meeting Law does not require that they address such topics in a 
meeting. See OML 2013-40. Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law when the Chair did not include the public comment topic on the June 21 meeting 
notice and then cut off discussion when Selectman King raised the topic during the meeting. 
II. The June 7 Meeting Minutes Are Insufficient Where An Attachment Was 
Substituted For A Summary. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes 
must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2017-79; OML 
2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
 The “Town Ma nager’s Report” section of the June 7 meeting minutes states “(See 
attached)” without further detail. The complainant asserts that there was no attachment available 
with the minutes, and the Board concedes this point, explaining that the omission was an 
oversight. A detailed two-page Town Manager’s Report was later attached to the minutes. The 
video recording of the June 7 meeting revealed that Town Manager Jennifer Callahan read the 
entire Report, which took up the bulk of the June 7 meeting. The Board contends that attaching 
the Report is sufficient in lieu of a summary. We disagree. Simply attaching a report does not 
meet the Board’s obligation to summarize the discussion in its minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 
OML 2016-35. Further, the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than 
a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the 
minutes summarize the substance of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2022-233; OML 
2020-53; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. As such, we find that the Board failed to create 
sufficiently detailed minutes in this instance.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it created insufficient minutes of its June 7 meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We further order the Board, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, 
to amend the minutes of the June 7 meeting to include a summary of the discussion that took 
place during the Town Manager’s Report portion of the meeting. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determ
ination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Leah Reichner (via e-mail ) 
 Mark R. Reich, Esq. (via e- mail: mreich@k-plaw.com) 
 Town Clerk (via e- mail: mjenkins@oxfordma.us and lkelley@oxfordma.us) 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 