===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASI1BURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
A1TORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
August 20, 2012 
OML 2012 — 78 
Mr. Mark L. Karlberg 
Town of Becket 
Board of Selectmen 
557 Main St. 
Becket, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Karlberg: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Beth VanNess on October 7, 2010, 
alleging that the Becket Board of Selectmen ("Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, Ms. VanNess' complaint alleges that the Board 
"refused to listen to any comments from the public" during an open meeting on 
September 29, 2010, during which the Board discussed a complaint against the Town's 
Fire Chief. The complaint was originally filed with the Board October 5, 2010. The 
Board did not respond to Ms. VanNess' complaint. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the October 5, 2010 complaint filed 
with the Board; the October 7, 2010 complaint filed with our office; and the notice and 
minutes from the Board's September 29, 2010 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by refusing to allow public comment during the Fire Chief s hearing on September 
29, 2010. 
FACTS  
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
The Board held an open session meeting on September 29, 2010. During that 
meeting, as the meeting notice reflects, the Board planned to enter executive session to 
discuss complaints against Fire Chief John Hall. At the beginning of the meeting, Chief 
Hall requested that the discussion occur in open session. The Board subsequently 
announced that there would "be no public input allowed, and if there was any speaking or 
shouting from anyone they would be asked to leave." The Board then moved forward 
CI, 
===PAGE 2===
with the proceedings in open session. In her complaint, Ms. VanNess alleges that the 
Board "refused to listen to any comments from the public though there were MANY 
Becket residents at the meeting in support of Jo1m Hall." (emphasis in original). 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint alleges that the Board denied members of the public the right to 
speak and ask questions during the Board's September 29, 2010 meeting. The Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation. See OML 
2012-23.1  The Law states that, Inlo person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent. 
No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(f). Under this provision, the chair of the Board has the discretion to prohibit or allow 
public comment during the meeting. The Chair's decision not to allow public comment 
during the September 29, 2010 discussion of the complaint against the Fire Chief was, 
therefore, a proper exercise of his discretion under the law. Although there is no legal 
requirement to allow public comment at an open meeting, we do encourage public bodies 
to allow for as much public participation as time permits. 
As a final matter, we note that the Board failed to respond to this Open Meeting 
Law complaint. The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after 
receiving a complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General, a 
public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any 
remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind that Board 
that it must comply with these requirements and respond to Open Meeting Law 
complaints within 14 business days. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe 
any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Je athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
cc: 	 Ms. Beth VanNess 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 