===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 31, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 109  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Sonya Barbosa  
Chair, Swansea School Committee 
1 Gardners Neck Road 
Swansea, MA 02777 
sonya.barbosa@swanseaschools.org  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Sonya Barbosa:  
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on May 22, 2025,1 alleging that the 
Swansea School Committee (“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or around April 28, and you2 
responded to the complaint on behalf of the Committee by letter dated May 13. The complaint 
alleges the following violations with respect to a meeting held on April 28: (1) the Chair did not 
announce that the meeting was being recorded; (2) the notice did not list the names of the 
candidates to be appointed to a Committee subcommittee; (3) the Committee discussed a topic, a 
“surround care” summer program, that was not listed on the notice; (4) the Committee failed to 
comply with two procedural requirements prior to convening in executive session; and (5) a 
quorum of Committee members deliberated outside of a meeting by engaging in “off microphone 
side conversations.”  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to announce that the meeting was being recorded and failing to comply with one 
procedural requirement prior to convening in executive session on April 28. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
 
2 
 
request for further review, and the notice, minutes and video recording of the Committee meeting 
held on April 28.3 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus 
three members constitute a quorum.  
 
On April 23, at 1:24 P.M., the Committee posted a notice for a meeting to be held on 
April 28 at 6:00 P.M. The notice included 14 topics, two of which were “Action Items” and 
“Other Business.” The “Action Items” topic included specific subtopics that further advised the 
public of the topics to be discussed, including: “Vote to select the next Chairperson for the 
School Committee”; “Vote to select the next Vice Chairperson for the School Committee”; 
“Vote to approve changes of the School Committee Subcommittee”; and “Vote on the second 
reading of the new Policy: IJNDBC Student Cell Phones & Wearable Technology.” The topic 
“Other Business” included the language “any topic that was not reasonably anticipated by the 
chairperson 48 hours before the meeting.” The notice also included an executive session under 
Purpose 3 to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body, 
and identified the specific collective bargaining units.   
 
The April 28 meeting was held as planned. After the meeting was called to order, the 
Committee discussed the first two items listed under “Action Items,” which were to select the 
next Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. Committee Member James Carvalho made a motion, 
seconded by Member Thomas Rodriques, to appoint Sonya Barbosa as Chair, which was passed 
by unanimous vote. Next, Mr. Carvalho made a motion, seconded by Chair Barbosa, to appoint 
Mr. Rodrigues as Vice Chair, which was passed by unanimous vote. The Committee then 
discussed appointments to the School Building Committee and the Budget Subcommittee. Mr. 
Rodrigues nominated Mr. Carvalho to the School Building Committee and Member Kristin 
Pettey to the Budget Subcommittee. Mr. Carvalho then made a motion, seconded by Member 
Ana Ponte-Porto, to appoint Mr. Carvalho to the School Building Committee and Ms. Pettey to 
the Budget Subcommittee, which was passed by unanimous vote.  
 
During “Other Business,” the Superintendent discussed the “surround care” summer 
program, a topic not listed on the notice. Initially the Superintendent anticipated discussing this 
topic at the Committee’s May 12 meeting but, after speaking with individuals involved in 
planning the program, realized that the Committee would need to authorize the program prior to 
May 12 so parents would have time to commit to the program. The Superintendent explained that 
the program would run for six weeks from 8:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M. at a cost of $175 per week per 
child. The Committee unanimously voted to allow the surround care summer program to 
proceed.  
 
After discussing all the open session topics, Chair Barbosa stated that the Committee 
would convene in executive session under Purpose 3 “to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body.” Chair Barbosa announced the collective 
 
3 Link to video recording of the meeting can be found at School Committee Meeting April 28th, 2025 on Vimeo.  
===PAGE 3===
 
3 
 
bargaining units, which included teachers, school secretaries, paraeducators and cafeteria 
workers. Finally, Chair Barbosa stated that the Committee would not return to open session after 
the conclusion of the executive session and the Committee then unanimously voted by roll call to 
“close the open session.”    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We find that the notice of the April 28 meeting was sufficiently specific, and the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it discussed a topic not listed on 
the notice.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1) (b). We 
generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could 
read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 
2015-35.4   
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s April 28 meeting failed to identify 
the individuals who were to be appointed to Committee subcommittees. The Open Meeting Law 
requires that public bodies describe meeting notice topics with specificity. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Although the April 28 notice indicated that the Committee would 
make appointments to its subcommittees, it did not include the names of the individuals to be 
appointed. We have consistently stated that the names of applicants for appointment which are 
known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be included on a meeting notice. See OML 
2019-24; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163. Here, the Committee explains that it did not know 
who would be appointed to the subcommittees until the meeting. Indeed, during the meeting, Mr. 
Rodrigues nominated Mr. Carvalho to the School Building Committee and Ms. Pettey to the 
Budget Subcommittee, and the Board unanimously voted for the appointments. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by not including the names of the individuals 
on the April 28 meeting notice. See OML 2017-170.    
 
  The complaint also alleges that the Committee discussed a topic that was not listed on the 
April 28 meeting notice. A public body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in 
the meeting notice if it is a topic that the Chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours 
before a meeting. See OML 2012-88. During the April 28 meeting, the Superintendent asked the 
Committee to approve the “surround care” summer program. The Superintendent explained that 
he planned to bring up this topic at the Committee’s next meeting but based on information he 
received earlier that day he realized that the Committee would need to discuss and vote on the 
summer program at the April 28 meeting. Although a chair generally may be aware of a 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
4 
 
particular issue, the Open Meeting Law only requires a meeting notice to contain the topics the 
chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the meeting for which the notice is posted. See OML 
2020-86; OML 2020-53. We credit the Committee’s explanation that the Chair did not 
reasonably anticipate the need to discuss this topic during the April 28 meeting and find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2023-148; see also OML 2021-67 
(finding that “there is a presumption in favor of the honesty and sufficiency of the motives of 
actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for general welfare”).   
 
II. The Committee failed to announce that the April 28 meeting was being recorded.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “after notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting pf a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair 
as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of 
any such recordings.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). Here, Swansea Community Network recorded the 
meeting, and thus the Chair was required to inform attendees that the meeting was being 
recorded. See OML 2023-111. The requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording 
includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, as well as recordings made 
for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting 
minutes. See OML 2023-111; OML 2019-129; OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136. Because the 
Chair did not announce that the meeting was being recorded, we find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law. We commend the Committee for its commitment to comply with the 
Law in the future.  
 
III. The Committee failed to comply with one procedural requirement prior to convening in 
executive session during the April 28 meeting.  
  
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, the chair has stated the purpose for 
the executive session and stated all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair has publicly announced 
whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.   
 
One permissible purpose for a public body to enter executive session is to “discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). The complaint alleges that the Chair did not 
declare that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the 
Committee. Here, the Committee properly convened in open session, announced that it would 
enter executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, identified the collective bargaining units with 
which it was negotiating, and announced that the Committee would not reconvene in open 
session. However, the Chair failed to make the required statement that holding a discussion in 
===PAGE 5===
 
5 
 
open session may have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s negotiating position. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(3). Prior to convening in executive session, Chair Barbosa simply read from the law 
stating “if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect” on the Committee’s negotiating 
position but failed to specifically declare that discussions in open session may have a detrimental 
effect on the Committee’s negotiating position. See OML 2024-161; OML 2015-13. As such, we 
are constrained to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law but find that the violation is de 
minimis. See OML 2020-21; OML 2019-34; OML 2016-75.   
 
The complaint further alleges that the Committee failed to conduct a roll call vote to enter 
executive session. The Open Meeting Law requires that, prior to convening in executive session, 
a majority of Committee members must vote to go into executive session and the vote of each 
member must be by roll call. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). This requirement is intended to create a 
clear record of what occurred and to reflect the significance of holding a discussion behind 
closed doors. See OML 2015-131; OML 2014-94; OML 2012-10. Here, the Committee voted by 
roll call to close the open session and then immediately convened in executive session. To find 
this vote insufficient would place form over substance. See, e.g., OML 2021-196 (finding that 
minutes accurately recorded a roll call vote where the minutes listed the five Committee 
members present at the meeting, combined with the statement “5 yeas” or “4 yeas, 1 nay” with 
the name of the Committee member voting in the negative). Therefore, we do not find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
IV. We find that the Committee did not deliberate outside of the April 28 Meeting.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id.; see also OML 2020-169. A one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body's 
jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-
144. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of 
the members of a public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
The complaint alleges that three members of the Committee, a quorum, had “off 
microphone side conversations” during the April 28 meeting. After watching a video recording 
of the April 28 meeting, we observed multiple “side conversations” between two Committee 
members. However, any conversations between two members, a subquorum, would not 
constitute deliberation. See OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69. To the extent the 
complaint alleges that Committee members deliberated in a serial fashion, the Committee 
explains that any conversations between members were personal in nature and did not involve 
the business of the Committee. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
===PAGE 6===
 
6 
 
body’s account of the facts and find that the Committee did not deliberate outside of the April 28 
meeting. See OML 2017-93; 2019-165.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by not announcing that the meeting was being recorded and not declaring that an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the public body’s bargaining position. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution the 
Committee that a similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by Dariana Noyola, Legal Intern  
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: )   
Swansea Town Clerk Diane Pelland: (via email: dpelland@swanseama.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
