===PAGE 1===
      
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACI-IUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 8, 2012 
OML 2012-33 
Frank K. Duffy, Jr. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Falmouth 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Duffy: 
This office received a complaint on December 7, 2011 from Marc Finneran, alleging a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, by the Falmouth Board of Selectmen 
(the "Board"). Mr. Finneran alleges that "[t]he [Board] as appointing authority [failed] to ensure 
receipt of Open Meeting Law materials to all Boards and Committees" within the Town of 
Falmouth. The complaint was originally received by the Board on October 7, 2011. We 
received your response on behalf of the Board in a letter dated October 18, 2011. 
The Attorney General assumed responsibility for enforcement of the Open Meeting Law 
as it applies to local public bodies on July 1, 2010. Since that date, each member of a local 
public body has been required to certify within two weeks of taking the oath of office or entering 
into performance of office that he or she received a copy of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25; the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations; and a copy of the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law Guide. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); 940 CMR 29.04(1). The municipal 
clerk must deliver these materials to public body members, and retain copies of the certification 
forms. Id. 
The Board admitted in its response that the Town as a whole did not comply with the 
certification requirement of the new law prior to September 2011. The response indicated that 
the Town Clerk was unaware of the certification requirement prior to September 2011, and it was 
common practice before that time for the Town Clerk to distribute a copy of the "old" municipal 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, §§ 23A-C, and an Open Meeting Law pamphlet that was 
===PAGE 2===
prepared by Town Counsel' to newly appointed members. The pamphlet contained an overview 
of the Open Meeting Law, and was revised in September 2010 to include provisions of the 
"new" Open Meeting Law. Members were also required to sign a log upon receipt of the 
materials. 
Upon learning of the certification requirement in September 2011, the Town Clerk began 
to distribute the required materials upon appointment and file the certification form with each 
individual's letter of appointment. Furthermore, the response noted that Town Counsel has 
conducted several Open Meeting Law trainings since that time for Town officials and distributed 
the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide during the trainings. 
From Town Counsel's response, we infer that the Board's members also failed to comply 
with the Open Meeting Law's certification requirement prior to September 2011. Based upon 
the response to the complaint, however, it appears the Town has taken appropriate steps to 
ensure compliance by all public bodies in Falmouth going forward. To confirm that it is 
currently in compliance, we order the Board, within two weeks of receiving this determination, 
to send our office copies of the completed certifications for all current members of the Board. 
Furthermore, we order hmnediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Upon 
receipt of the Board's certifications, we will consider this matter closed. Please be advised that 
closing this complaint does not resolve any other complaints that are currently pending with our 
office. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Marc Finneran 
For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 