===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA IIEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 11,2017 
OML 2017-114 
Clement Brown 
Horvitz & Brilhante, LLP 
321 North Main Street, P.O. Box 2568 
Fall River, Massachusetts 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Brown: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated June 8, alleging that the 
Somerset Board of Assessors (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 26, and the Board responded by 
letter dated June 7. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board held a meeting without 
posting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed an article published in the 
Somerset/Swansea Spectator (the "Spectator") on May 24. George Austin, Grass Will Soon 
Replace Coal on Power Plant Site, THE SOMERSET/SWANSEA SPECTATOR, May 24, 2017, at A1. 
We find the facts as follows. At all times relevant to the complaint, Dynegy, Inc. was in 
the process of permanently ceasing operations at Brayton Point Power Station in Somerset. On 
May 5, the Board chair toured the Brayton Point Power Station property as part of an appraisal 
process to determine taxes to be paid to the town upon the closing of the power station. The 
Board's consultant appraiser and principal assessor were also present for the site visit; neither of 
these individuals is a member of the Board. No other Board member attended this site visit. On 
May 24, the Spectator published an article which quoted the Board chair as stating that "his 
board took a tour" of the property with an appraiser. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
A "deliberation" is "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. "Quorum" is defined as a simple majority of public body members. Id. 
Further, the Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include the date, time, and location of the meeting, and "a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the May 5 site visit constituted an unnoticed meeting of 
the Board. The complaint cites the Spectator article in support of the allegation that all members 
of the Board were present for the tour. However, the Board contends that the chair was the only 
Board member present for the tour and that the Spectator article indicating otherwise was in 
error. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts. 
See OML 2016-141.2 Because no quorum was present during the May 5 site visit, no meeting 
took place. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, the Board was not required to post notice. 
Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Somerset Board of Assessors 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be fded in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin w. ivianganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 