===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
July 9, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 80 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Chris McIntyre 
Chair, Cohasset Conservation Commission 
CMcIntyre@cohassetma.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chris McIntyre: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mary Jo Larson on April 21, 2026,
1 alleging that 
the Cohasset Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about 
March 3, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated March 20. The 
complaint alleges that 1) the Commission limited public participation during a meeting held on 
February 5; 2) the minutes of the February 5 Commission meeting lacked sufficient detail; 3) the 
Commission failed to comply with the “Mullin Rule,” G.L. c. 39, § 23D; and 4) the Commission 
failed to respond to written objections before issuing an order of conditions. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by limiting public participation or creating insufficiently detailed meeting minutes. We 
decline to review the remaining allegations for the reasons discussed below. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint along with attachments, the 
Commission’s response, the request for further review along with the accompanying 
supplemental statement, and the notice, minutes, and video recording of the February 5 
Commission meeting.
2 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2026. 
2 A recording of the February 5 meeting can be found at https://youtu.be/56_d7iLIsoo?si=ZKHkX90OceJJfqyC. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On February 3, the Commission posted a notice for a 
remote meeting to be held via Zoom on February 5 at 6:30 P.M. The notice included two public 
hearings pertaining to Notices of Intent filed for construction of single-family homes at 40 Pond 
Street and 46 Pond Street.  
 
The February 5 meeting was held as planned. At the start of the meeting, Commission 
Chair Chris McIntyre encouraged members of the public to submit their comments through the 
“Q&A” feature on Zoom. After approving one set of meeting minutes, the Commission held the 
two public hearings with respect to the construction projects at 40 and 46 Pond Street. The 
Commission heard from Taylor Corsano, a representative of the engineering consulting 
company, who presented alternative designs for the Pond Street construction projects, and also 
heard from the applicant, the applicant’s attorney and the landscape architect for the projects. 
Chair McIntyre read questions submitted through the “Q&A” feature on Zoom, including those 
submitted by the complainant. Commission members, as well as individuals involved with the 
projects, responded to the questions. Conservation Agent Charlotte Pechtl then read several 
proposed conditions for the projects, which included that the applicant obtain all required permits 
prior to site work, that all patios within the buffer zone be pervious, and that retaining walls be 
maintained. The Commission then closed the public hearings. Commission Member Will Ashton 
made separate motions to issue an “Order of Conditions and Stormwater Permit” for the 40 and 
46 Pond Street projects, both with special conditions. The Commission unanimously approved 
each motion. Mr. Ashton then made separate motions to “Issue a Variance allowing mitigation 
plantings within the 50-foot Buffer Zone” at both 40 and 46 Pond Street. Again, the Commission 
unanimously approved each motion. 
 
The complainant submitted written objections to the construction projects on Pond Road 
to the Commission on February 19. The Commission issued the Orders of Conditions for the two 
projects on February 26. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
1.  The Commission did not V iolate the Open Meeting Law When the Chair Limited Public 
Participation. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public 
body allow public participation during its meetings. See OML 2026-38.3 To the contrary, it 
provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the 
chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The chair 
of a public body may determine the method for receiving public comment, who may speak or 
participate during a meeting, and may set limitations on participation, including restricting public 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
participation all together. See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-181. This rule applies equally at both 
in-person and virtual meetings. See OML 2026-38; OML 2024-63; OML 2019-138; OML 2017-
189. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time 
and circumstances permit. See OML 2019-120; OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59. 
Nonetheless, as it is within the chair’s discretion to determine the method for receiving public 
comment, the chair of the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by requiring the 
complainant to submit comments through the “Q&A” feature on Zoom during the February 5 
meeting. 
 
Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be 
permitted to speak or otherwise actively participate during a meeting, numerous laws in the 
Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes certain action.
4 
The specific procedures for notice and conduct of the public hearing are governed by the law 
requiring the hearing and such law may require opportunity for public comment. However, the 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not govern the requirements for conducting 
a public hearing. Therefore, we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any actions 
taken by the Commission could be a violation of any public hearing law or regulation. See OML 
2020-114; OML 2014-31. 
 
2.  We Find That the Minutes of the February 5 Meeting Are Sufficiently Detailed. 
 
 T he Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must set “forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, [and include] a summary of the discussions 
on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made 
and the actions taken at each meeting, including a record of all votes.” Id. When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2024-226; OML 2017-104; OML 2016-105. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2024-226; OML 2019-163. While minutes must 
include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes 
do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2024-226; OML 2012-29.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission created insufficient minutes of the February 5 
meeting where the minutes do not include a list of the documents submitted to the Commission 
by the complainant and failed to accurately reflect discussions and votes taken with respect to the 
construction projects on Pond Street. Prior to the February 5 meeting, the complainant submitted 
documents to the Commission and the Commission acknowledged that it received those 
documents. However, the minutes of the February 5 meeting do not reference the documents. 
 
4 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of  
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or  
cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed  
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal,  
application or petition). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Although the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes include a list of documents used at the 
meeting, the Law does not define what it means for a document to be “used” during a meeting. 
We have said that a document is “used,” and must be listed in the minutes, when the document is 
1) physically present, 2) verbally identified, and 3) its contents discussed by the public body 
during a meeting. See OML 2025-6; OML 2024-217. After reviewing a video recording of the 
February 5 meeting, we find that the documents submitted by the complainant were not 
physically present, were not verbally identified, and were not discussed by the Commission 
during the meeting. Therefore, because the complainant’s submissions were not “used” by the 
Commission during the meeting, the Commission was not required to list these documents in the 
minutes.5 
 
With respect to a summary of the discussions on the Pond Street construction projects, 
we find that the February 5 meeting minutes include a sufficiently detailed summary of the 
discussions that occurred. In addition, the minutes accurately reflect the motions made and votes 
taken during the meeting. As such, we find that the Commission created sufficiently specific 
minutes of the February 5 meeting and substantially complied with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2013-64. 
 
3.  We Decline to Review the Remaining Allegations. 
 
 The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance only with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Here, the complaint identifies procedural concerns with 
respect to state laws other than the Open Meeting Law, specifically that the Commission violated 
G.L. c. 39, § 23D (“the Mullin Rule”).
6 Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. We previously have declined to review complaints alleging 
that a public body has violated the Mullin Rule. See OML Declination 12-14-2023 (Somerset 
Board of Selectmen); OML Declination 5-2-2022 (Carver Planning Board). Likewise, we decline 
to review here any allegation that the Commission violated the Mullin Rule. 
 
To the extent the complaint alleges that the Commission failed to respond to the 
complainant’s written objections to the projects on Pond Street prior to issuing permits and 
orders of conditions, we decline to review such an allegation. While the Open Meeting Law 
governs the transparency and accessibility of a public body’s deliberations, it does not govern 
whether or when a public body must discuss a particular topic. See OML 2015-1. Members of 
the public are free to send written correspondence to a public body, but the Law does not require 
the public body to discuss or respond to that correspondence. See OML 2017-45. 
 
 
 
5 We note that the Commission did use the “site plans,” “alternative site plans,” and the “list of conditions” at the 
February 5 meeting, and all these documents are listed in the February 5 minutes. 
6 General Laws Chapter 39, § 23D, also known as the Mullin Rule, provides that, upon municipal acceptance of the 
Rule, a member of a municipal board “when holding an adjudicatory hearing shall not be disqualified from voting in 
the matter solely due to that member's absence from no more than a single session of the hearing at which testimony 
or other evidence is received. Before any such vote, the member shall certify in writing that he has examined all 
evidence received at the missed session, which evidence shall include an audio or video recording of the missed 
session or a transcript thereof.” G.L. c. 39, § 23D. See also Mullin v. Planning Board of Brewster, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 
139 (1983). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commission or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Legal Intern, Ian Harvey 
 
 
cc: Mary Jo Larson  
Elisabeth Legge, Cohasset Town Clerk (via email: elegge@cohassetma.gov)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
