===PAGE 1===
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 11, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 106  
 
 
Leigh Davis 
Chair, Great Barrington Selectboard and Planning Board Housing Subcommittee 
334 Main Street 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
 
By e-mail only: ldavis@townofgb.org 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Davis: 
 
 This office received a complaint from Jonathan Hankin on January 3, 2023, alleging    
that the Great Barrington Selectboard and Planning Board Housing Subcommittee (the 
“Subcommittee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Subcommittee on November 23, 2022, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Subcommittee, by letter dated January 10, 2023.
1 The complaint alleges that the minutes of 
the Subcommittee meeting held on September 20, 2022, are inaccurate.2 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Subcommittee’s response to the complaint, the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the notices and minutes of the 
Subcommittee meetings held on September 20 and November 4, as well as video recordings of 
those meetings.
3 Following our review, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open 
 
1 We remind the public body that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.   G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
2 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022 . 
3 A video recording of the Subcommittee meeting held on September 20 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SRL4oFfeJI&list=PLCFNZBKOScyz5zOqMZUexreOgFc3CpV -o&index=7; 
a video recording of the Subcommittee meeting held on November 4 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BSaCWq0EJM0&list=PLCFNZBKOScyz5zOqMZUexreOgFc3CpV -
o&index=4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Meeting Law in one respect with regard to the accuracy of the minutes but otherwise find the 
minutes to be sufficiently detailed.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
4 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-163; OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each 
topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Nonetheless, we recommend that 
public bodies follow best practices when possible. In particular, we encourage public bodies to 
include dissenting or minority opinions whenever feasible. Where significant debate on a matter 
occurs and it is clear that one or more members of the body and/or the public disagree with the 
decision ultimately taken by the public body, public bodies should note the opposing viewpoints 
in the meeting minutes. See OML 2019-163. While it is not necessary to record the comments of 
every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where there are many speakers 
whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only 
one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and his or her comments should be 
identified in the minutes. See id.; OML 2012-29. 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Subcommittee meeting held on September 
20 failed to include an accurate summary of the Subcommittee’s discussion on the Short Term 
Rental bylaw. The complainant, who was a member of the Subcommittee,
5 introduced the topic 
during the September 20 meeting, and requested in the complaint that the minutes be edited to 
reflect more detail regarding the rationale for the portion of the bylaw that includes a prohibition 
on tenants being able to offer short term rentals.  During its November 4 meeting, the 
Subcommittee approved the September 20 minutes as drafted. 
 
After reviewing the minutes of both the September 20 and November 4 meetings, as well 
video recordings of both meetings, we find that the minutes capture a concise summary of the 
Short Term Rental bylaw discussion even though they do not capture, at times, the exact 
statements. See OML 2017-104; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. A public body is not required to 
capture every comment made in order to substantially comply with the accuracy requirement of 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2021-4; OML 2019-136. Indeed, we have not required the 
level of detail and precision the complainant seeks here. See OML 2019-136 (finding that the 
public body substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement for meeting minutes 
when two members of the public spoke during a public comment period and the minutes 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
5 At the time of the September 20 meeting, the complainant was a member of the Subcommittee.  He is no longer a 
member. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
captured some of the complainant’s comments but, according to the complainant, failed to 
capture at least ten points the complainant included in her remarks as well as comments made by 
another speaker). The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes adequately capture the substance 
of the discussions that occurred so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting 
could read the minutes and have an understanding of what occurred. See OML 2020-113; OML 
2016-40. Thus, we find the minutes are sufficiently specific in this respect.  
 
However, we find that the minutes of the September 20 meeting are inaccurate where 
they mention Subcommittee member Garfield Reed as being involved in the discussion of the 
Short Term Rental bylaw. Specifically, the minutes state “Ms. Davis and Mr. Reed disagreed 
with Mr. Hankin, saying that the STR bylaw had been thoroughly vetted and that the town may 
lose control of who is renting STR’s if it is opened to sublessors.” But Mr. Reed left the 
September 20 meeting before the discussion of this topic began. To be “accurate,” meeting 
minutes must accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting.  See OML 
2020-62. Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions that actually took place, it 
is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not discussed at a meeting. 
As such, we find that this statement in the minutes that references Mr. Reed does not accurately 
reflect the discussion that occurred. 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the accuracy of 
the Subcommittee minutes of the meeting held on November 4. During the November 4 meeting, 
the Subcommittee approved four sets of meetings minutes – October 6, 2021, August 9, 
September 20, and October 18 from 2022. However, the minutes state that the Subcommittee 
approved minutes of meetings held on August 8, 2022, September 20, 2022, October 6, 2022, 
and October 18, 2022. In addition, the November 4 minutes indicate that Subcommittee member 
Malcolm Fick abstained and did not vote to approve the minutes of the meeting held on August 
9. In fact, Mr. Fick voted to approve the minutes of that meeting. We strongly encourage the 
Subcommittee to revise the minutes of the November 4 meeting to accurately reflect the 
discussions and votes that actually occurred. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Subcommittee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to accurately reflect the Subcommittee members that discussed the Short Term 
Rental bylaw during the September 20 meeting. We order the Board to amend the minutes of the 
September 20 meeting to accurately reflect the discussion that occurred and to certify to this 
office within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter that it has done so. See 940 C.M.R. 
29.07(4). We also order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Subcommittee 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.     
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
        
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by Bethany Salah, Legal Intern 
 
 
cc:
 Jonathan Hankin – By email only:  
 Great Barrington Town Clerk – By email only: jmessina@townofgb.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
