===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 16, 2017 
OML 2017-162 
David J. Sousa, Chairman 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen 
10 Pearl Street 
Stoughton, MA 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairman Sousa: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated August 18, alleging that the 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 11, and the Board responded 
by letter dated August 28.2 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board failed to notify 
members of the public that a meeting was being recorded. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the video 
recording of a Board meeting held on July ll.3 Finally, we reviewed supplementary information 
from the Board's legal counsel sent by e-mail on October 5. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on July 11. 
As is the case with all Board notices, the July 11 notice contained a disclaimer: "This meeting 
may be shown live on the local broadcast channel by SMAC [the Stoughton Media Access 
Corporation] and recorded for the internet[.]" The Board convened the July 11 meeting as 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board did not respond to the present Open Meeting Law 
complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, 
within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney 
General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5), (6). We remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
3 The video recording of the meeting at issue is available here: 
http://71.184.1 18.35/Cablecast/public/Show.aspx?ChannelID=l &ShowID=4857. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
planned. As the meeting began, the chair did not make a statement notifying members of the 
audience that the meeting was being recorded. Indeed, the local cable access channel broadcast 
and recorded the July 11 meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[a]fter notifying the chair of the public body, any 
person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of a meeting of a public body, or 
may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to the reasonable requirements of the 
chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment so as not to interfere with the 
conduct of the meeting. At the beginning of the meeting the chair shall inform other attendees of 
any such recordings." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The requirement that the chair inform attendees of 
any recording includes any recording made by members of the public body itself, including those 
made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of 
meeting minutes. See OML 2012-24.4 
The complaint alleges that the chair failed to announce that the July 11 meeting was 
being recorded. Indeed, our review of the video recording indicates that the chair did not make 
such an announcement. In its response, the Board points to the disclaimer on the meeting notice 
informing members of the public that the meeting would be recorded and broadcast. In previous 
determinations, we have found that where a public body displays a sign in a meeting room 
clearly informing those in attendance that the meeting is being recorded, the chair is relieved 
from making a verbal announcement to that effect. See OML 2013-136. Here, the disclaimer on 
the meeting notice was insufficient for the meeting as, unlike a verbal statement or a posted sign 
which are more apparent to the members of the public in attendance. We therefore find that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to sufficiently notify members of the public that 
the meeting was being recorded. We note, however, that the Board has installed signs since 
receiving the present complaint clearly stating that all meetings are recorded. We commend the 
Board for taking this remedial action. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevii 
Assistant Attorney General 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Brian Winner, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 