===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 17, 2024  
  
OML 2024 - 70 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Dave Humphreys, Chair 
Milton Warrant Committee 
525 Canton Avenue 
Milton, MA 02186 
 
DHumphreys@townofmilton.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Humphreys:  
 
This office received a complaint from Diane DiTullio Agostino on January 13, 2024, 
alleging that the Milton Warrant Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint originally was filed with the Committee on October 18 
and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 7.1  The complaint 
alleges that topics listed on the notices of the Committee's October 11 and October 18 meetings 
were not sufficiently specific.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting notice of the October 11 meeting which was not sufficiently specific but that the 
Committee took appropriate remedial action to cure the violation.  We find that the Committee 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices of the meetings 
held on October 11, October 18 and October 25, and the minutes of the meetings held on 
October 11 and October 18. 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2023.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 Notice of the October 11 meeting included the following topics: 
 
2.)  Presentation, Discussion, and Vote on Proposed Warrant Article LHDSC Historic 
District 
 
3.)  Presentation, Discussion, and Vote on Proposed Warrant Article to Transfer Parcels 
of Land to the Conservation Commission 
 
 Notice of the October 18 meeting included the following topic: 
 
3.  Discuss/vote on proposed Warrant Article with regard to Amendment of the FY2024 
Budget 
 
 At its October 25 meeting, in response to the allegations of the complaint, the Committee 
revisited topics that it had discussed at its October 11 meeting.  Notice of the October 25 meeting 
provided greater specificity than did the notice of the October 11 meeting: 
 
2.)  Discuss and vote upon proposed Warrant Article to transfer parcels of land to the 
Conservation Commission (in the vicinity of Courtland Circle, Thistle Avenue, 
Whitman Road, and Riverside Avenue) 
 
3.)  Discuss and vote upon proposed Warrant Article to establish a Local Historic District 
Commission and a Historic District (Milton Village) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the October 11 meeting was not sufficiently specific. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.2  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
When a public body plans to discuss a specific piece of property, notice of the meeting 
should include sufficient information to identify the property, either by listing the address, 
bordering streets, intersections or landmarks.  See OML 2024-11; OML 2019-105; OML 2010-2.  
A specific street address may be useful but is not always required.  See, e.g., OML 2016-107 
(noting that if a building to be discussed is a well-known landmark in the community, listing the 
address in place of the name may actually cause more confusion than clarity.) 
 
We find that the notice of the October 11 meeting was not sufficiently specific as to the 
topics that are the subject of the complaint.  The notice did not identify the location of the 
proposed historic district or the parcels to be transferred to the Conservation Commission.  A 
reasonable member of the public could not have read the notice for the October 11 meeting and 
understood the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion as to topics 2 and 3.  Therefore, 
notice of the October 11 meeting was not sufficiently specific.  We note with approval that the 
Committee posted notice of these topics with greater specificity for discussion at its October 25 
meeting.  Notice of the October 25 meeting did not provide “more notice . . . than is legally 
required,” as the Committee maintains.  However, notice of the October 25 meeting did comply 
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and effectively cured the violation. 
 
II. Notice of the October 18 meeting was sufficiently specific. 
 
Notice of the October 18 meeting included the topic “Discuss/vote on proposed Warrant 
Article with regard to Amendment of the FY2024 Budget.”  As to this topic, the discussion at the 
meeting largely focused on the reserve fund.  Greater specificity in the notice, with reference to 
the reserve fund, would have been preferable.  Nonetheless, the notice as written provided 
sufficient notice of the subject of the Committee’s discussion.  See OML 2020-132 (notice topic 
“FY2021 Budget and Rates” sufficiently specific); OML 2014-125 (notice topic “FY 15 Budget 
discussion” sufficiently specific).  Therefore, we find that notice of the October 18 meeting was 
sufficiently specific as to the topic referenced in the complaint.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its October 11 meeting.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements.  Because the Committee took appropriate steps to 
cure the violation, we order no further remedial action.  We caution that similar future violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
   
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Diane DiTullio Agostino (via email: ) 
 Milton Town Administrator (via email: nmilano@townofmilton.org) 
Milton Town Clerk (via email: sgalvin@townofmilton.org) 
    
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
