===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF 
MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.govlago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
December 28, 2010 
OML 2010-7 
William T. Hamilton 
Dear Mr. Hamilton, 
Out office has reviewed your complaint dated December 6, 2010 alleging 
violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Walpole Board of 
Selectmen (the "Board"). The complaint was originally filed with the Board in a letter 
dated August 18, 2010. The complaint alleges that a quorum of a subcommittee of the 
Board met on or around July 22, 2010 with representatives of the Home for Little 
Wanderers, and conducted business without providing public notice, opening the meeting 
to the public or maintaining minutes.' We find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed your letters dated August 18, 2010, 
October 5, 2010, and December 6, 2010. We also reviewed the Board's response to your 
letters, dated, August 25, 2010, September 15, 2010, October 21, 2010 and December 13, 
2010. Additionally, we reviewed the Board's Rules Governing Organization and 
Operations. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that any meeting of a quorum of a public body, 
including a subcommittee, must be open to the public unless convened for an executive 
session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. The Law requires that the public body provide notice of 
I  The complaint also alleges secret meetings between the Board and a power company, but the complainant 
is unable to offer any substantive information supporting this claim. Therefore, we decline to investigate 
this allegation. 

===PAGE 2===
the meeting and that the public body maintain minutes of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20, 22. A "quorum" is defined as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, 
unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other 
authorizing provision." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "public body" is defined, in part, "as a 
multiple-member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, 
elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. 
• c. 30A, § 18. 
The complaint, which was clarified by your October 5, 2010 and December 6, 
2010 letters, alleges that the chair and vice-chair of the Board met with Dr. Joan Wallace-
Benj amin of the Home for Little Wanderers sometime prior to a public Board meeting on 
July 27, 2010, when Dr. Wallace-Benjamin appeared before the Board. The meeting 
with the two Board members was revealed to the public at the July 27, 2010 Board 
meeting. The complaint further alleges that the chair and vice-chair, along with the clerk 
of the Board, constitute a Leadership Subcommittee which is subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. The December 6th  letter states, "[b]y the rules established by the Walpole Board of 
Selectmen, The Chairman, Vice Chairman and Clerk by a vote of the full Board 
constituted a Leadership Subcommittee, and the Chairman and Vice Chairman represent 
a quorum of the Leadership Subcommittee." The Board, in its response to the complaint, 
denies that such a subcommittee exists, stating that the three officers are not an 
established subcommittee, and thus the meeting between the two members of the five-
member Board was not a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We credit the Board's response. 
The complaint states that the Board's rules establish a Leadership Subcommittee, 
however there does not appear to be any evidence that the Board created such a 
subcommittee. Upon review of the Board's governing document, the Board Rules 
Governing Organization and Operations, we were unable to fmd a rule establishing a 
Leadership Subcommittee. While, the Rules clearly describe the positions of chair, vice-
chair, and clerk, they do not establish a subcommittee where those officers are 
empowered to make collective decisions. Moreover, there is no additional evidence that 
the Board otherwise created a Leadership Subcommittee consisting of the Board officers. 
We also fmd no evidence that the Board created a subcommittee to meet with and 
develop policy related to the Home for Little Wanderers. The October 5, 2010 letter 
states that the complainant, along with the three other Board members, first learned of the 
meeting with the Home for Little Wanderers at the Board's open meeting on July 27, 
2010. The mere fact of a meeting involving two Board members does not create a 
subcommittee. Moreover, the Open meeting Law permits members of a public body to 
meet and discuss subject matter under the public body's jurisdiction so long as the 
members do not constitute a quorum. Here, it appears that the Board members acted 
within the requirements of the Law. 
===PAGE 3===
We fmd no violation of the Open Meeting Law, and now consider this matter 
closed. Please contact me if you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented 
to be inaccurate 
Sincerel , 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Joyce Frank, Kopelman and Paige, P.C., Walpole Town Counsel 