===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 18, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 79  
 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Katelyn Putt 
Conservation Agent 
Town of Bridgewater 
kputt@bridgewaterma.org 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Putt: 
 
This office received two complaints from Mark Peterson
1—one on February 3 and one 
on February 25, 2025—alleging that the Bridgewater Conservation Commission (the 
“Commission”) and the Community Economic Development Director, Robert Rulli,2 violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the 
Commission on or about November 19 and December 3, 2024.3 Together, the complaints allege 
 
1 At the time of the events of the complaints, Mr. Peterson was a member of the Commission.  
2 The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public body members. See  G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25; OML Declination 12-18-15 (Lawrence City Clerk); OML Declination 11-2-15 (Massachusetts 
Division of Marine Fisheries); OML Declination 5-16-19 (Bourne Town Clerk). Mr. Rulli is not a member of the 
Commission; therefore, to the extent the complaint alleges that Mr. Rulli violated the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review this allegation. 
3 The Commission did not respond to the complaints. After outreach from our office, we received an email on 
December 30, 2024, from Mr. Rulli with some explanation regarding the November 19 complaint, and on January 
13, 2025, we received an email from the Town’s Conservation Agent, Katelyn Putt, providing some additional 
information and explaining that the Commission did not wish to respond to either complaint. We warn the 
Commission that when an Open Meeting Law complaint is properly filed, the public body has fourteen business 
days to review the complaint, respond in writing to the complainant, and provide our office with a copy of the 
complaint and response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The failure to properly respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint is itself a violation of the Open Meeting Law; a public body may not simply choose not to 
respond, even if it believes the allegations of the complaint lack merit. See, e.g., OML 2024-253 (finding a violation 
for failure to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints). If a public body needs additional time to respond to a 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that the Commission deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting regarding a proposed 
project at 0 Lakeshore Center and LEC Environmental Consultants, Inc. (“LEC”), a third-party 
consultant hired to perform a peer review of the project.4  
 
For the following reasons, we decline to review the November 19 complaint and find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to the December 3 complaint. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints; the December 30, 2024, email 
from Mr. Rulli; and the January 13, 2025, email from Ms. Putt.
5 We also communicated via 
Zoom and email with Ms. Putt and Mr. Rulli. 
 
FACTS 
 
Together the complaints relate to the selection of LEC Environmental Consultants, Inc. 
(“LEC”) for inclusion on a list of preapproved consultants for project applicants to choose from; 
the timing and process of requesting a proposal from LEC for a proposed project at 0 Lakeshore 
Center; and the decision not to use an escrow account to pay LEC for its work on the 0 
Lakeshore Center project.  
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Commission held meetings on February 22, 
March 28, and April 11, 2024.
6 During these meetings the Vice Chair of the Commission 
expressed a desire for the Commission to create a list of three peer review consultants that the 
Commission preapproved for applicants to choose from if their project required peer review. 
During the April 11 meeting, the Vice Chair explained that she had emailed the Chair, and 
maybe others, a list of three peer review consultants that she felt the Commission should choose 
for the list. During the meeting the Commission members agreed to the list.  
 
On April 23, the Community Economic Development Director, Robert Rulli, sent an 
email to LEC and to another consultant, BSC Group, requesting proposals and cost estimates for 
a proposed project at 0 Lakeshore Center. On May 6 Mr. Rulli forwarded to Commission 
members, including the Complainant, a proposal, dated May 2, from BSC Group. On May 8 Mr. 
Rulli forwarded to Commission members, including the Complainant, a proposal from LEC; this 
proposal was dated March 7. During the Commission’s May 9 open session meeting, at which 
the Complainant was present, the Commission discussed the two proposals and voted to 
authorize Mr. Rulli to inform the applicant that both proposals were acceptable to the 
Commission and that the applicant could choose whichever they preferred. The applicant 
ultimately chose LEC to perform the peer review for the 0 Lakeshore Center project. 
 
  On October 24 and again on November 14, the Commission held public hearings 
regarding the 0 Lakeshore Center project.  
 
complaint, it may request an extension of time for good cause from our office prior to the expiration of the 14 
business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
4 The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 -
25. To the extent the complaints raise allegations regarding compliance with procurement  procedures and wetlands 
protection bylaws, we decline to review these allegations where, even if true, they would not constitute violations of 
the Open Meeting Law. See, e.g., OML Declination 10-3-2024 (Wareham Select Board); OML 2023-230. 
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
6 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
On November 26 the Complainant made a public records request for accounting reports. 
The Town Manager responded to the request that same day explaining that, with respect to the 0 
Lakeshore Center project, “[t]he only fees the town has received are related to the filing of 
Notice of Intent (NOI),” and that “[a]ny fees paid to outside consultants are the responsibility of 
the applicant and not paid through the town. There is no escrow or liability account.” 
 
I. We Decl
 ine to Review the November 19 Complaint Because It was not Timely Filed 
with the Commission.   
 
For an Open Meeting Law complaint to be considered timely, the Open Meeting Law 
re
quires that the complaint be filed “with the public body . . .  within 30 days of the date of the 
alleged violation.” G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could not have been known at 
the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the date on which the 
alleged violation should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Violations that 
take place during an open session can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur. See OML 
2012-52.7  
 
The basis for the allegation that the Commission deliberated outside of a properly noticed 
meeting to decide to include LEC on the preapproval list and to request a proposal from LEC to 
review the 0 Lakeshore Center project is the fact that LEC’s proposal is dated March 7. As a 
member of the Commission, the Complainant received LEC’s proposal by email on May 8. 
Although the Complainant asserts that he discovered the date of LEC’s proposal when he 
decided to review relevant documents after an October 24 hearing and in preparation for a 
November 14 hearing, we find that the facts upon which the complaint is based were 
discoverable on May 8. As such, the November 19 complaint was not timely filed with the 
Commission and we must decline to review it.
8  
 
Although we decline to review the November 19 complaint because it was not timely 
fil
ed, we note that during the Commission’s April 11 meeting the Vice Chair mentioned that she 
had sent an email with a list of three peer review consultants that she felt the Commission should 
include on its preapproval list. If this email was sent to a quorum of the Commission, it likely 
constituted improper deliberation. The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations of a 
public body take place during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Law defines 
“deliberation” broadly as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation, even if no other public 
body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.    
 
 
 
7 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
8 Mr. Rulli and the Commission have consistently represented that the March 7 date on LEC’s proposal was a typo 
and that LEC’s proposal was in fact received by the Town on May 7 , the day before it was forwarded to the 
Commission members. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. We Fi nd No Violation of the Open Meeting Law with Respect to the Allegation 
Raised in the December 3 Complaint.  
 
The December 3 complaint alleges that the Commission improperly deliberated outside 
of a noticed meeting to decide not to require the use of an escrow account to pay LEC for the 0 
Lakeshore Center project. In support of this allegation the complaint asserts that the Town 
Manager’s response to the Complainant’s public records request “revealed that Bridgewater had 
not established an escrow account for the [0 Lakeshore Center] project,” that the Town’s wetland 
protection bylaws require the establishment of an escrow account for payment of professional 
consultants, and that members of the Commission have publicly expressed a strong commitment 
to adhering to the wetland protection bylaws and have mentioned escrow accounts. The 
complaint then concludes, based on these assertions, that “[g]iven the [Commission]’s strong 
public commitment to its bylaws, including the escrow account requirement, the decision to have 
the applicant pay the consultant directly, appears to have been made outside of a public meeting, 
which likely constitutes an Open Meeting Law violation.”  
 
As discussed above, t
 he Open Meeting Law requires that deliberations of a public body 
must occur during a properly noticed meeting, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), and defines deliberation 
as any “oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between 
or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. In an interview with our office, Mr. Rulli explained that the decision to have the applicant 
pay LEC directly and not use an escrow account was his and that he did not communicate in any 
way with any member of the Commission when making this decision. Mr. Rulli further 
explained that at the time of the decision he was assisting the Commission as the Town was 
without a conservation agent, and that he was unaware that the bylaws required the use of an 
escrow account. Furthermore, each member of the Commission has confirmed that they did not 
communicate in any way with any other member regarding how to pay LEC. Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts, and we find here that the 
Commission did not deliberate outside of a noticed meeting as alleged. See OML 2024-91 (“We 
have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or conjecture regarding deliberation 
outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is insufficient to support a complaint’s 
allegations.”); OML 2024-14; OML 2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we decline to review the November 19 complaint and we 
find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the December 3 
complaint. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.       
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Bridgewater Conservation Commission ( via email: CED@bridgewaterma.org) 
Robert Rulli, Director, Community Economic Development  
(via email: rrulli@bridgewaterma.org) 
 Tina Larson, Town Clerk (via email: tlarson@bridgewaterma.org) 
 Mark Peterson (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
