===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
June 19,2018 
OML 2018-85 
Joseph 1. Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass. go v/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law CortiDlaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
Lhis office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on April 13, alleging that the Fall 
River Licensing Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 10, and the Board responded by letter 
dated April 12. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by: (i) failing to timely approve meeting minutes from a meeting held on January 17; and 
(ii) failing to provide sufficient detail on the notice for its March 26 meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of the 
Board's March 26 meeting, and the summary of a site-visit held by the Board on March 2. 
Finally, we spoke to the Board's legal counsel on June 5.3 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 In his request for further review, Mr, Higgins alleges that the Board's legal counsel responded to the present 
complaint before the Board met to review it. Potential violations discovered after a complaint has been filed with a 
public body should be alleged in a subsequent complaint filed with that body. The Office of the Attorney General 
will not investigate allegations raised for the first time in a complaint filed with the Office. This allegation was not 
included in the original complaint. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML 2017-161, n. 3. Open Meeting 
Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Additionally, the request for further review alleges that counsel's signature was not authentic. This appears to be 
based on speculation that the Board's legal counsel was on vacation at the time counsel sent the response. However, 
even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A § 23(b). 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held meetings on January 17, February 12, and 
February 21. On February 22, the Board posted notice that it would conduct a site-visit on 
March 2 to the Canned Heat Craft Beer Company. On March 2, the Board conducted that site-
visit. During the visit. Board members remarked on the nature of the site, but deny any 
deliberation took place. 
On March 20, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 26. The Board 
intended at this meeting to consider a variety of topics relating to licensing. The relevant parts of 
the notice are as follows: 
2. Change of Hours 
A. Belmont Club, Inc.-34 Franklin Street- Priscilla Poirier 
3. Class II 
A. P&P Auto Sales and Service, Inc.-699 Pleasant Street-Antonio Pavao 
B. Martin's Auto Sales, Inc. -2291 South Main Street-Antonio Martins 
C. Worldwide Auto Sales-2244 South Main Streel-Darline Torres 
D. John Barry Pacheco, The Shine Ship, Inc., d/b/a Ray's Auto Sales-707 Brayton 
Avenue John Barry Pacheco 
5. Transfer of License 
A. FR Waterfront, Inc., d/b/a Barretts Waterfront-1082 Davol Street-Karl 
Pelletier 
The Board then held the March 26 meeting as planned, during which it approved its 
January 17 meeting minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Approved its January 17 MeetinR Minutes in a Timely Manner. 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the January 17 meeting were not approved in a 
timely manner. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting 
Law does not define "timely manner." According to the Attorney General's regulations for 
Open Meetings, "timely manner" means "within the next three public body meetings or within 
30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay." 940 
CMR 29.11(2). The Open Meeting Law defines "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction; provided however, 'meeting' shall not 
include: (a) an on-site inspection of a project or program, so long as the members do not 
deliberate...." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
The complaint argues that the Board should have reviewed and approved the minutes of 
its January 17 meeting during the March 2 site-visit, which the complaint contends was the third 
2 
===PAGE 3===
meeting following the January 17 meeting. Subsequent to the January 17 meeting, the Board 
held meetings on February 12, February 21, and March 26. It is not clear from our investigation 
whether the Board's March 2 site-visit constituted a meeting or was exempt from the definition 
of meeting by the on-site inspection exception. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18(a). The Board's legal 
counsel explained to our office that, while Board members may have remarked on the nature of 
the site during its March 2 visit, the Board denies that any improper deliberation took place. We 
take this opportunity to remind the Board that any communication between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction constitutes "deliberation" for the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 3OA, §18. Even one-way factual statements, 
when made between or among a quorum of a public body, can constitute deliberation. See OML 
2018-37. 
While we do not reach a conclusion as to whether the March 2 site-visit constituted a 
meeting or an exempted on-site inspection, we decline to find a violation where the Board 
approved the January 17 meeting minutes at its next opportunity, on March 26. We conclude 
that the Board acted within the spirit of the Open Meeting Law's directive that the minutes be 
approved in a timely manner. 
II. The Board's March 26 Meeting Notice was Sufficiently Specific. 
The Open Meeting Law also requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance 
of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a 
meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). A notice need not include every detail about 
an anticipated discussion; the Division of Open Government generally considers a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 
2015-35. 
The complaint alleges that the Board did not provide specific detail in listing the agenda 
topics for the March 26 meeting. In particular, under "Change of Hours," the complaint argues 
that the Board should have listed the current hours, as well as the Board's specific proposal for 
changing the hours; under "Class II," the complaint argues that the Board should have elaborated 
more on the specific reason why each business was listed; and under "Transfer of License," the 
complaint argues that the Board should have included from whom the license was to be 
transferred. The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because each agenda item clearly 
informs the public of the topic to be discussed. Under "Change of Hours," the inclusion of the 
name of the applicant, as well as the name and address of the establishment reasonably informs 
the public that the topic to be discussed is a change of hours for that establishment. Similarly, 
the same information under "Class II" reasonably informs the public that the topic to be 
discussed is the Class II licensing of the four businesses listed. Finally, the same information 
under "Transfer of License" reasonably informs the public that the topic to be discussed is a 
transfer of a license to the business listed. Though we encourage the Board to be as clear as 
possible in future meeting notices, the Open Meeting Law requires only that a public body list 
the topic to be discussed, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). We find that the information provided on the 
March 26 meeting notice listed the disputed topics with sufficient specificity to satisfy the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River Licensing Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 