===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 14,2016 
OML 2016-34 
G. Robert Merry, Chair 
Rowley Board of Selectmen 
139 Main Street, P.O. Box 275 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MALTRA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Chair Merry: 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Toomey, dated February 3, 2016, alleging 
that the Rowley Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 4, 2015, and the 
Board responded by letter dated November 10, 2015, In his complaint, Mr. Toomey alleges that 
a Board subcommittee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes of a Board 
meeting held on October 19, 2015, as well as the minutes of a meeting of the Rowley Board of 
Water Commissioners held on November 3, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On October 19, 2015, the Board appointed three 
individuals—Karen Summitt; Robert Snow; and Mary Ann Levasseur—to a "task force." The 
purpose of this group was to investigate the whereabouts of missing Rowley Water Department 
property, including a laptop computer, keys to the Water Department office, and various 
documents. 
1 The complaint also makes reference to a discussion that took place on October 20, 2015. Requests for review must 
be filed with the Attorney General within 90 days of the alleged violation, unless an extension was granted to the 
public body or the complainant demonstrates good cause for delay. 940 CMR 29.05(6). Here, any allegation 
concerning the October 20, 2015 meeting should have been filed within 90 days. Because you requested review 
from our office after this date, and you did not demonstrate good cause for the delay, we decline to review this 
allegation. Id. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Board of Water Commissioners held a meeting on November 3, 2015. Two task 
force members—Mr. Snow and Ms. Levasseur—were present at this meeting. The minutes 
indicate that the Board of Water Commissioners discussed several topics during this meeting, 
most unrelated to the mission of the task force created on October 19, 2015, Ms. Levasseur 
asked several questions during the various discussions. Of significance, the Board of Water 
Commissioners discussed implementing a "Chain of Command Policy" intended to formalize a 
procedure for tracking Water Department property. During this discussion, Ms. Levasseur asked 
how often the Board of Water Commissioners had considered adopting such a policy in the past. 
It does not appear that Mr. Snow asked any questions during the meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G,L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21, The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L, c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the member of the public body. Id. 
Here, a quorum of the task force was present during the November 3, 2015 meeting. 
Generally, a quorum of a public body is permitted to attend a meeting of another public body 
provided that its members do not engage in deliberation. See G.L, c. 30A, § 18 (defining 
"Meeting"). Based on our review of the meeting minutes, it appears that the task force members 
present did not deliberate during the meeting at issue. Indeed, only Ms. Levasseur asked 
questions during the meeting and it appears that the task force members present participated on 
the same terms as members of the general public. Participating in the type of open discussion 
that took place during the November 3, 2015 meeting does not constitute deliberation. G.L, c. 
30A, § 18; OML 2012-22. We therefore find that the task force members did not deliberate 
during the meeting at issue. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin w. ivtanganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Timothy Toomey 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 