===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 2, 2013 
OML 2013-180 
Edward Marlenga, Esq. 
Arlington Town Counsel 
50 Pleasant Street 
Arlington, MA 02476 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Marlenga: 
This office received a complaint from Christopher Loreti, dated May 3, 2013, alleging 
that the Arlington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 18, 
2013, and your office responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 8, 2013. In his 
complaint, Mr. Loreti alleges that upon receiving a copy of the Board's April 11, 2011 executive 
session minutes on February 4, 2013, he determined that the Board committed the following 
violations: improperly withheld certain portions of these minutes; failed to timely approve these 
minutes; failed to timely release these minutes upon his request; improperly convened in 
executive session on this date; and failed to regularly review executive session minutes.1 
We reviewed the February 18, 2013 complaint; your office's March 8, 2013 response, on 
behalf of the Board; and the May 3, 2013 complaint filed with our office, requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice, recording, and open and executive session minutes from 
the Board's April 11, 2011 meeting. Finally, we spoke by telephone with current Chair Daniel 
Dunn. 
Following our review, we find that while the Board responded appropriately to the 
complainant's request for the April 11, 2011 executive session minutes, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session for an improper purpose and by failing to 
conduct a periodic review of its executive session minutes. We commend the Board's efforts to 
address the latter violation. 
1 Mr. Loreti also alleges that the Board generally failed to timely approve its executive session minutes. We decline 
to review this allegation as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized 
allegations. See OML 2-25-13 (declining to review a complaint against the Concord-Carlisle High School Building 
Committee). 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. In 2001, the 
Town purchased the Symmes Hospital property ("Symmes property"), but subsequently sold it to 
a private developer. At the time of the sale, the Arlington Redevelopment Board 
("Redevelopment Board") entered into a land disposition agreement with the developer. The 
bank later foreclosed on the property, thus at the time of the executive session in April 2011, the 
Town was concerned about the future development of the Symmes property. According to the 
April 11, 2011 executive session minutes. Town Manager Brian Sullivan, who was a Town 
spokesperson in meetings with developers, provided an update to the Board regarding various 
developers' recent interest in the Symmes property. Then-Chair of the Board, Clarissa Rowe, 
provided an update to the Board regarding the potential development of the Mugar property, 
which is the largest privately owned undeveloped parcel in the Town and remains a potential 
open space and conservation resource. 
On January 13, 2013, the complainant submitted a written request to the Board for a copy 
of its April 11, 2011 executive session minutes, which had not been publicly disclosed at the 
time of his request. The Board did not respond to Mr. Loreti's request within 10 days. On 
January 28, 2013, the Board conducted a review of the minutes in executive session and voted to 
release the portion relating to the Symmes property, while continuing to withhold the portion 
relating to the Mugar property. At the time of the review, the Symmes property was already 
being developed, however the Board felt that the portion regarding the Mugar property remained 
confidential. Accordingly, on February 4, 2013, the Board provided the complainant with a 
redacted copy of the April 11, 2011 executive session minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to create and maintain accurate minutes of 
all meetings, including executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes of all open sessions 
shall be created and approved in a timely manner.2 G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(c). Furthermore, upon 
request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion 
thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and shall release 
any such minutes not covered by an exemption; provided, however, that if the body has not 
performed a review, the public body shall perform the review and release the non-exempt 
minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever 
first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2012-106; OML 2012-91; OML 2012-86.3 
At the time of the complainant's January 13, 2013 request, the Board had not yet 
conducted a review of its April 11, 2011 executive session minutes. Accordingly, the Board 
reviewed the minutes request during its January 28, 2013 meeting to determine whether 
continued non-disclosure was warranted. Following this review, the Board released the redacted 
2 We recommend that executive session minutes be approved in a timely manner as well. The Law does not provide 
a definition of "timely manner," but we recommend that minutes be approved at the next meeting, whenever 
possible. See OML 2012-91. Here, the Board waited more than a year and a half before approving its April 11, 
2011 executive session minutes. 
J Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
executive session minutes on February 4, 2013.4 This process complied with the law's 
requirement that a review be performed within 30 days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
Additionally, we note that in past determinations, we have stated that where a public body must 
conduct a review upon a request for executive session minutes, the body should still respond to 
the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. See OML 
2013-105; OML 2013-99; OML 2012-86. 
While the Board acted appropriately in reviewing the request, we find the executive 
session recorded in the minutes requested was improper. It does not appear that the Board was 
negotiating the "purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property" when it convened in 
executive session on April 11, 2011 to discuss the Symmes and Mugar properties. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6) (Purpose 6 allows a public body to enter into executive session "[t]o consider the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body"). Rather, the Board 
received updates on recent events concerning the development of these properties, despite the 
fact that the Board did not have a direct negotiating position to protect. Potential uses for land 
are not proper discussions under Purpose 6. OML 2012-98; OML 2012-52. Therefore, the 
Board should have conducted the discussion in open session. See OML 2013-156. Because we 
find that there was no lawful purpose for the April 11, 2011 executive session, we order the 
Board to release the minutes in their entirety, unless the attorney/client privilege or an exemption 
to the Public Records Law applies. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to periodically review its executive 
session meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure. 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication 
may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f). 
When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents 
or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
Because the Board did not conduct such a periodic review, it failed to comply with this 
requirement. In response to this complaint, the Board, which did not previously have an 
established procedure for conducting periodic reviews of its executive session minutes, voted to 
adopt a procedure under which it will review and approve executive session minutes twice 
annually. We therefore find that, while the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
periodically review its executive session minutes, it took appropriate remedial action in response 
to this complaint in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above we find that while the Board responded appropriately to the 
complainant's request for the April 11, 2011 executive session minutes, the Board violated the 
4 However, the Board should have provided the complainant with the executive session minutes as soon as possible 
after this review on January 28, 2013, rather than waiting a full week to issue its response. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session for an improper purpose and by failing to 
conduct a periodic review of its executive session minutes. Accordingly, we order the Board to 
release the April 11, 2011 executive session minutes in their entirety, unless the attorney/client 
privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies. In addition, we order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Law, and caution the Board that a future similar 
violation may be evidence of an intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
Sincerely, 
-Janne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Christopher Loreti 
Arlington Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 