===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 25, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 146 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Jeff Stulin 
Chair, Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School Committee 
jwstulin@comcast.net 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Stulin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Sheila Nagle on behalf of the Minuteman Faculty 
Association on May 4, 2023, alleging that the Minuteman Regional Vocational Technical School 
Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or around April 3, and the Committee 
responded to the complaint by letter dated April 12.  The complaint alleges that the Committee 
convened its March 24 meeting in a location other than that stated on the meeting notice, and that 
the Committee entered executive session without first convening in an open session that the 
public could attend.  The complaint also alleges that the full meeting was not available for the 
public to access remotely and that the portion of the meeting that was accessible remotely 
offered audio only. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
convening its March 24 meeting in a location different than stated on the meeting notice, but that 
it had cured the violation during the same meeting.  We find that the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the complaint, the Committee’s response to the complainant and additional correspondence from 
the Committee to our office, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  
We also reviewed the notice and minutes for the Committee’s March 24 meeting, and we 
corresponded with both the complainant and the Committee’s former chair by email. 
 
  
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
March 24.  The notice stated “Regular Meeting 5:00 PM / Minuteman School Committee / Paul 
Revere Room / And Via / Remote Participation Meeting.”  The notice included details to access 
the meeting via Zoom.  The notice included four agenda topic headings: “1. Call to Order: Open 
Session”; “2. Executive Session,” followed by a description of the topic to be discussed, which 
pertained to strategy with respect to negotiations with the Minuteman Faculty Association; “3. 
Return to Open Session at 6:00 P.M.,” followed by a description of the topics to be discussed; 
and “4. Adjournment.”   
 
The Committee convened its meeting at approximately 5:00 P.M. as scheduled; however, 
rather than convening in the Paul Revere Room the Committee convened the meeting in a 
different room on a different floor of the building.  No notice was provided to the public of the 
change to the meeting location.  Shortly after the Committee convened the meeting, but before it 
completed its roll call vote to enter executive session, the president of the Minuteman Faculty 
Association found the Committee and informed it that it was not meeting in the posted location, 
in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  The Committee then relocated to the Paul Revere Room 
at approximately 5:10 P.M., where it commenced the meeting from the beginning, convening in 
open session and then voting to enter executive session.   
 
The Committee provided the public with remote access to its March 24 meeting via 
Zoom Webinar, in addition to allowing members of the public to attend the meeting in person.  
The Zoom webinar offered audio-only access to the meeting; a video feed of the full meeting 
was unavailable due to staffing and technical challenges.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public 
bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in 
executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, 
access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 
2018-75; OML 2016-54.2  Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to 
Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, temporarily 
suspended the requirement under the Open Meeting Law that meetings be held at a physical 
location that is accessible to the public as long as a public body instead provides 
“adequate, alternative means” of access to its meetings through technology that enables the 
public to clearly follow the proceedings as they occur.  A public body is not required to provide 
remote access to its meetings if those meetings are instead held in-person at a location that is 
open and physically accessible to the public.  See OML 2023-52; OML 2021-147. 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website: https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enume
rated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly 
announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94. The public has a right to witness 
these procedural steps in order to observe the public body’s vote and learn the purpose for the 
executive session.  See OML 2013-195.  For this reason, when the first or only topic for a 
meeting is an executive session, the notice must make clear that the meeting will begin with 
a brief open session that the public may attend.  See OML 2019-160; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-
68.  
 
I. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Convening its Meeting in a 
Different Location Than Stated on the Meeting Notice. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by convening 
its March 24 meeting in a different room than stated on the meeting notice.  We agree.  The 
notice for the Committee’s March 23 meeting properly stated that the Committee would convene 
its meeting in open session at 5:00 P.M. before moving to enter executive session to discuss 
strategy related to collective bargaining with the Minuteman Faculty Association.  However, the 
Committee concedes that it convened its meeting at 5:00 P.M. in a location other than the Paul 
Revere Room as indicated on the meeting notice, thus depriving the public of the ability to attend 
the brief open session to learn the purpose for the executive session and observe the Committee’s 
vote.  Although we credit the Committee’s assertion that it had not yet even completed its roll 
call vote to enter executive session when the President of the Minuteman Faculty Association 
found the Committee, and that the Committee relocated to the Paul Revere Room and 
commenced its meeting from the beginning, the Committee nonetheless violated the Open 
Meeting Law by convening its meeting in a location other than that specified on the meeting 
notice.   
 
The Committee contends that it cured the violation of the Open Meeting Law when it 
moved t
o the posted meeting room and re-commenced its meeting by 5:10 P.M., only 10 minutes 
after the stated start time.  We agree.  Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by 
independent, deliberative action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory 
ratification of action taken in violation of the Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of 
Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  That is exactly 
what the Committee did when it moved its meeting to the proper location—which was set up for 
a meeting to begin shortly—within ten minutes of the posted start time and re-started the meeting 
from the beginning.  We acknowledge that it was only due to the actions of the President of the 
Minuteman Faculty Association that the Committee was able to quickly come into compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and we commend the President for intervening.
3   
 
 
3 We acknowledge the complainant’s assertion that at a meeting at which the Committee intended to discuss labor 
relations and surely knew many members of the Minuteman Faculty Association would be in attendance, the 
Committee convened its meeting in a room on a different floor of the building that could be accessed by stairs that 
enabled Committee members to avoid crossing paths with those arriving for the meeting in the Paul Revere Room.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. Limitations to the Zoom Feed of the Committee’s March 24 Meeting Did Not 
Violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Committee did not begin Zoom access to the March 
24 meeting until 6:00 P.M., despite indicating on the meeting notice that the public would be 
able to access the meeting via Zoom.  The Committee asserts, and the complainant does not 
dispute, that the Zoom feed began at 5:00 P.M., with the video directed at the seat placard for the 
Committee’s recording secretary.  However, the complainant asserts that there was no audio until 
6:00 P.M., and there was not consistent or any video feed later in the meeting.  The Committee 
disputes that there was no audio feed from the beginning of the meeting; however, the 
Committee explains that with the exception of the brief period of time between when the 
Committee entered the room at approximately 5:10 P.M. and when it entered executive session 
minutes later, there was nothing to be heard.  The Committee explains that because the meeting 
was not recorded it cannot state with certainty that the audio feed was working, but that it 
received no other comments or complaints about the audio feed.  The complaint acknowledges 
that because she attended the meeting in person, she lacks firsthand knowledge as to whether 
members of the public accessing the meeting remotely were unable to hear the meeting during 
the brief period that the Committee was in open session.   
 
Regardless, in this case, the C
 ommittee was not required to provide remote access to its 
March 24 meeting since the meeting was held in person at a location that was open and 
accessible to the public.  See 2021 Mass. Acts. Chapter 20, Section 20 (An Act Relative to 
Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency); OML 2023-
52; OML 2021-135.  Chapter 20 allows public bodies to provide the public with “adequate, 
alternative” access to meetings instead of providing in-person access but does not require public 
bodies to provide “adequate, alternative” access if in-person access is provided.  We have not 
previously found violations of the Open Meeting Law when a public body intended and 
attempted to provide remote access to a meeting in addition to in-person access, and experienced 
technical disruptions that interfered with the ability to provide clear and consistent remote 
access.  See OML 2023-127; OML 2023-52; OML 2023-43.  Likewise, here, we do not find a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Finally, although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note concern that the open 
se
ssion minutes for the Committee’s March 24 meeting do not document the Committee’s 
announcement of the purpose for the executive session nor the roll call vote to enter executive 
session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b), 22(a).  This fact, combined with the Committee initially 
beginning its meeting in a room other than the public meeting space, suggest that the Committee 
did not view the executive session convening procedures as part of the public meeting.  We 
emphasize that the public has a right to attend the brief open session prior to the executive 
session to learn the purpose of the executive session and to witness the roll call vote to enter 
executive session, and that this portion of the meeting must be fully open and accessible to the 
public.  See OML 2021-21; OML 2019-47; OML 2013-95.   
 
  
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law
by convening its meeting in a location other than stated on the meeting notice but that it cured
the violation on the date of the meeting in question. We order the Committee's immediate and
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a determination
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate
the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any
questions.
Sincerely,
Care Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Sheila Nagle (Via email:
Julia Pisegna, Chief Executive Assistant to the Superintendent (via email:
JPisegna@minuteman.org)
Dr. Kathleen A. Dawson, Superintendent (via email: KDawson@minuteman.org)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
5