===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02)08 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 6,2016 
OML 2016-88 
Brian R. Falk, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
100 Front Street 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Falk: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated May 12, alleging that the 
Swansea School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 26, and the Committee 
responded by letter dated May 10. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to following proper procedure in responding to an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, and (ii) failing to list anticipated topics on a meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice on April 21 for a meeting to 
take place on April 25. The notice listed several anticipated discussion topics, including "Open 
Meeting Law- complaint 4/12/16- alleged violation- 3/28/16," and "New Business: Future 
Discussions by... School Committee members." No further description was given. 
The Committee convened its April 25 meeting as planned. During the portion of the 
meeting reserved for discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaint, Committee member Joseph 
Salpietro stated that a copy of the complaint was not included in the packet distributed to all 
Committee members. Committee Chair Eric Graham stated that, because the complainant had e-
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 This time was reserved for topics not anticipated by the chair 48 hours prior to the meeting. See OML 2015-127. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Ct 
===PAGE 2===
mailed the complaint to all Committee members, it was not included in the packet.3 The 
Committee voted to refer the matter to its legal counsel. 
During the portion of the meeting reserved for "New Business," Committee member 
James Carvalho stated that he was involved in discussions with the Superintendent of Schools 
regarding a purchase of property. During this same portion of the meeting. Chair Graham stated 
that the Swansea High School would be mounting a production of South Pacific, and he urged 
members of the community to attend. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Appropriately Reviewed the Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
Within fourteen business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public 
body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to 
the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. 
940 CMR 29.05(4), (5), The chair of the body "shall disseminate copies of the complaint to the 
members of the public body" so that the merits of the complaint can be assessed. 940 CMR 
29.05(3). 
Here, the complainant filed his Open Meeting Law complaint by e-mailing it to all five 
members of the Committee. While it is true that the chair did not disseminate copies of the 
complaint to all Committee members, doing so would have been redundant, since all members 
had already received the complaint by e-mail. The purpose of the requirement that the chair 
disseminate copies is to make sure all members of the public body are aware of the allegations in 
the complaint. Here, the complainant, by sending the complaint to all Committee members, had 
already accomplished this aim. We find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
this allegation. Because the complainant had firsthand knowledge that all members of the body 
had received a copy of the complaint, we do not consider this allegation to have been made in 
good faith. 
II, The Committee did not Fail to List Anticipated Topics on the Meeting Notice. 
Public bodies must post notice of all meetings at least 48 hours in advance, including a 
list of all topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A 
public body must list anticipated discussion topics on a meeting notice with sufficient specificity 
such that a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(v); OML 2016-75. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to provide notice of two discussion 
topics—Mr. Carvalho's discussions regarding the purchase of property, and the notice regarding 
school production of South Pacific. With respect to Mr. Carvalho's statement, we note that he 
was not the Committee chair at the time notice for the April 25 meeting was posted. Chair 
Graham stated that he did not anticipate the statement from Mr, Carvalho regarding the property 
discussions, and we credit this statement. With respect to Chair Graham's statement regarding 
3 During the April 25 meeting, the Board voted in Mr. Carvalho to replace Mr. Graham as chair. Because Mr, 
Graham was chair at the time the notice was posted and when the meeting began, we refer to him as "Chair 
Graham" in this letter. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
South Pacific, it is clear that Chair Graham anticipated making this announcement to the group 
prior to the meeting. An anticipated report to the public body is a topic that "will be discussed" 
at a meeting, particularly where it concerns a topic that is likely to invoke questions or 
comments, either by the body members or members of the public. See OML 2016-13. However, 
based on these facts, we find that this was not a "report" that needed to be listed on the meeting 
notice. Rather, this was an innocuous comment made in passing, and not a piece of business that 
chair anticipated the Committee would discuss. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). We therefore find that 
the body did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
Lhis determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Swansea School Committee 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 