===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 30, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 260 
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Ross Vivori 
Principal Assessor 
Great Barrington Board of Assessors 
rvivori@townofgb.org 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Mr. Vivori:  
 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on November 6, 2024, alleging that 
the Great Barrington Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint originally was filed with the Board on or around September 17.  
The Board did not respond to the complaint.  The complaint alleges that the notice and minutes 
of the Board’s August 29 meeting are insufficient where neither identified the specific tax 
abatement applicants or properties to be discussed in executive session. 
 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the Board did not respond to the Open Meeting 
Law complaint.  The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint the following steps must be taken: 1) the chair must “disseminate 
copies of the complaint to the members of the public body”; 2) the public body must meet to 
review the complaint’s allegations, determine whether to take any remedial action, and formulate 
a response or delegate that authority; 3) the public body must respond to the complainant in 
writing; and 4) the public body must send a copy of the complaint and response to the Attorney 
General.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5); see also OML 2017-69; OML 2012-90.2  
We have twice recently reminded the Board of this requirement, see OML 2023-221 and OML 
2023-241, and again emphasize that the Board must review and respond to all properly filed 
Open Meeting Law complaints.3   
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The Attorney General’s Public Body Checklist - Responding to an Open Meeting Law Complaint is available as a 
resource at https://www.mass.gov/info-details/open-meeting-law-educational-materials. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Turning to the merits of the complaint, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with regard to the specificity of the notice of its August 29 meeting.  The notice of 
the Board’s August 29 meeting included the topic “Convene into Executive Session (and will not 
return to open session) a. Executive Session under GL Ch.59, s 60, Purpose (7). To consider the 
value of real estate, abatements and /or personal / financial information if the chair declares that 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  
The notice did not identify the specific abatement applications to be discussed.   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting, which 
notice must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies must list anticipated discussion topics in their 
meeting notices with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2018-60; OML 
2011-44. 
 
Furthermore, if a public body will convene in executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, it must first convene in open session and “the chair shall state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  The public body 
must provide “[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session . . . because 
that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper.”  Dist. Att’y for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009).   
 
Applications for tax abatement or exemption are confidential under G.L. c. 59, § 60. 
Although certain information, such as the name or title in which the tax stands assessed and the 
amount of any abatement, must be made public once an abatement has been granted, the Board is 
not required to release that information before that time.  See G.L. c. 59, § 60.  It was therefore 
sufficient for the meeting notice to state generally that the Board was considering applications 
for abatement or exemption under chapter 59, section 60, and the Board did not violate the law 
by not listing on the notice for its August 29 meeting the specific applications to be discussed in 
executive session.  See OML 2019-156; OML 2012-101.  Cf. OML 2016-167 (finding a meeting 
notice insufficiently specific where it did not list the names of trash fee abatement applicants to 
be discussed, as there was no statutory requirement of confidentiality with regard to such 
applications); OML 2020-164 (same, with regard to water fee abatement applications).  
Likewise, the Chair’s announcement in open session prior to convening in executive session 
permissibly did not identify the specific applications to be discussed. 
 
The complaint also alleges that the minutes of the Board’s August 29 executive session 
meeting are insufficient as they do not identify the abatement applications discussed nor 
summarize the discussions and record the vote taken as to each application.  The minutes of the 
Board’s August 29 meeting were still in draft form as of the date of the complaint.  We decline to 
review the sufficiency of minutes that are in draft form at the time a complaint is filed, as the 
public body may revise the minutes at any point prior to approval to correct inaccuracies or add 
===PAGE 3===
detail. See OML Declination 2-28-24 (Dennis Community Preservation Committee); OMI
2019-11; OML 2018-42 (explaining that "[u]nder the Open Meeting Law, a public body is
responsible for the sufficiency of final, approved minutes as it may revise draft minutes at any
point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail").
Nonetheless, we remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to
"create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions," and that
minutes must include, among other things, "a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Furthermore, once the
purpose for which a valid executive session was held has been served, the minutes "shall be
disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under the Public
Records Law] apply to withhold" the minutes, or any portion of the minutes, from disclosure.
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Accordingly, once the Board has completed its review of abatement
applications in executive session, it may no longer withhold the executive session minutes under
the Open Meeting Law, although it may redact or withhold the executive session minutes as
otherwise required or allowed by law. The Board may not, however, create insufficient
executive session minutes as a means to protect confidential information; instead, it must create
sufficiently detailed and complete minutes of each executive session and then redact the minutes
as appropriate before release. See OML 2022-189.
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Carie Benedon
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Eileen Mooney (via e-mail:
Town Clerk Joshua Risen (via e-mail: jrisen@townofgb.org)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3