===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  TEL: (617) 727-2200  www.mass.gov/ago  
  April 28, 2020         OML 2020 – 51    Maura E. O’Keefe Assistant City Solicitor City of Newton City Hall 1000 Commonwealth Avenue Newton, MA 02459  By e-mail only: mokeefe@newtonma.gov   RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney O’Keefe:  This office received a complaint from Attorney Alan Kovacs on February 20, 2020, alleging that the Newton City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Council on January 21, and you responded, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated February 4.  The complaint alleges that the Council improperly amended its notice by adding a new topic within 48 hours of its January 6 meeting.     Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Council’s January 6, January 8, and January 21 meetings, as well as video recordings of those three meetings.2                                                    1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 2 The video recording of the January 6 Council meeting is available at https://newtv.org/all-episodes-in-government/63-newton-city-council-meetings/6098-newton-city-council-january-6-2020; the video recording of the January 8 Council meeting is available at https://newtv.org/all-episodes-in-government/63-newton-city-council-meetings/6100-special-newton-city-council-january-8-2020; and the video recording of the January 21 Council meeting is available at https://newtv.org/all-episodes-in-government/63-newton-city-council-meetings/6104-newton-city-council-and-state-of-the-city-address-january-21-2020. 
===PAGE 2===
2  
FACTS  We find the facts as follows.  During a December 2, 2019, meeting, the Council approved by majority vote a special permit for a mixed-use development project and a request to rezone three parcels of land for business use at Oak Street, Needham Street and Tower Road in Newton.  The mixed use development project, referred to as the Northland Project (#425-18), would transform an old mill factory into 800 units of apartments, with 140 deemed affordable, and include public parks, a spray park, and restaurant and office space, as well as a shuttle service to the subway.  After the Council’s approval of the mixed-use development project and zoning amendments, some Newton residents, who were opposed to the project, collected signatures for a city-wide ballot question to overturn the Council's decision and repeal the zoning change.  The Newton City Clerk certified the number of signatures and concluded on January 3 that a sufficient number of signatures had been collected to put a ballot measure before the voters.  Pursuant to the City Charter, within 30 days of receiving the certified signatures, the Council was obligated to review its zoning amendment decision.    On January 2 at 4:58 P.M., the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 6 at 7:00 P.M.  The last topic listed on the notice was #425-18(2) – Request to set the date for a special election “in the event that it becomes necessary to call an election to refer to the voter’s docket item #425-18, passed by the City Council on December 2, 2019.”  On January 3 at 4:29 P.M., the Council amended its notice to include one additional topic: #425-18 – Request to rezone three parcels for Northland Development.  The notice further stated that this item would be before the City Council for action at a special meeting of the Council on January 8 where “the Council must decide whether it will vote to repeal or rescind its decision on Board Order #425-18 or refer the measure to a public vote.”  On January 3 at 4:38 P.M., the Council posted notice of an additional meeting to be held on January 8 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice included two topics: #425-18 – Request to rezone three parcels for Northland Development and #425-18(2) – Request to set the date for a special election.  The notice further stated that the City Clerk had determined that the citizens’ referendum petition requesting that the Council repeal or rescind the special permit and zoning amendments for the Northland project had a sufficient number of signatures.  Therefore, “the Council must decide whether it will vote to repeal or rescind its decision on Board Order #425-18 or refer the measure to a public vote.”   The January 6 meeting was held as planned.  The Council first received reports from its various committees and then briefly discussed whether to refer the Northland Project matter to the “Committee of the Whole” for a decision to either repeal the zoning amendments or refer the matter to a public vote.  Three Council members expressed their concerns over referring the matter to the “Committee of the Whole” while three other members expressed their support.  The Council then approved by a majority vote the referral of the matter to the “Committee of the Whole” for discussion at a special meeting scheduled for January 8.  
===PAGE 3===
3  
During the January 8 meeting, Councilor Richard Lipof reviewed the history of the Northland project and then made a motion to repeal the Council’s December 2, 2019, decision approving the zoning amendments.  After hearing from eight Councilors, the “Committee of the Whole” voted against repealing the Council’s decision approving the zoning amendments.  Because the “Committee of the Whole” did not repeal the Council’s decision, the matter would be put before the voters.  Councilor Joshua Krintzman then explained the process for setting a date for a special election, advising that such an election must be set within 120 days.  Since an election was already scheduled for March 3, Councilor Deborah Crossley made a motion to set March 3 as the date for the special election whereby voters would consider the Council’s December 2, 2019, decision.  The “Committee of the Whole” then approved by majority vote the date of March 3 as the date for the special election.  During a January 21 meeting, the Council reaffirmed the vote of the “Committee of the Whole” to set March 3 as the special election date whereby a question would be placed on the ballot asking voters to approve or reject the Council’s December 2, 2019, decision.  On March 3, Newton voters approved the December 2, 2019, decision of the Council granting a special permit and approval of zoning amendments for the Northland Project, thereby allowing future construction of the project.    DISCUSSION  The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A public body may amend the notice within 48 hours of a meeting if a previously unanticipated topic comes to the Chair’s attention.  See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2019-131.3  Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2012-71; OML 2011-44.    The complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing the Northland project where that topic was not listed on the original notice but rather was added within 48 hours of the January 6 meeting.4  A public body may amend a meeting notice within                                                  3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 4 In his complaint for further review, the complainant also suggests that the Council improperly posted notice for its January 8 meeting where such notice could not have been posted until after the Council voted on January 6 to refer to the “Committee of the Whole” discussion of repealing or rescinding its decision on the Northland project or instead referring the matter to a public vote.  We generally decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the Council because the Council has not had an opportunity to respond to it.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  We find that this allegation was not clearly raised in the original complaint and thus we do not review its merits.  Furthermore, the allegation that the Council should not have posted notice of the Northland project topic for the January 8 meeting until after the Council had voted on January 6 to refer 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
48 hours of a meeting to include an unanticipated topic and then discuss that topic during the 
meeting.  See OML 2019-131.  We find that the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours 
in advance of the meeting.  On Friday, January 3, the City Clerk certified that a sufficient 
number of signatures had been collected by Newton citizens to put a ballot measure before the 
voters.  At that point, the Council was required to review its special permit and zoning 
amendment decision with respect to the Northland project within 30 days of receiving 
confirmation of the certified signatures.  Where the chair was notified and became aware of the 
need for discussion and review of the Council’s December 2, 2019, decision regarding the 
Northland project within the two business days prior to the January 6 meeting, she could not 
have reasonably anticipated the discussion 48 hours prior to the meeting, not including 
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  We find that the Council 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law by amending the notice to include the unanticipated topic.  
In fact, although the Council could have discussed the unanticipated topic without adding it to 
the meeting notice at all, the Council followed our recommended best practice of amending its 
meeting notice to include topics that arise fewer than 48 hours before a meeting, so that members 
of the public are given advance notice of agenda items.5  See OML 2015-111; OML 2015-76. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Alan L. Kovacs, Esq. – By e-mail only:  
 Newton City Council – By e-mail only: citycouncil@newtonma.gov  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
                                                
the matter to the “Committee of the Whole,” even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, 
and therefore we decline to review it for this additional reason. 
5 Although a public body may consider unanticipated topics, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone 
discussion and action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public in order to include 
such topics in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting.  See OML 2018-119; OML 2016-54; OML 2014-57. 
 
