===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 3, 2025 
  
OML 2025 – 39 
 
VIA EMAIL  
  
William Meeker 
Chair, Conservation Commission 
Town of Brookfield 
6 Central St. 
Brookfield, MA 01506 
 
concomm@brookfieldma.us 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Chair Meeker:  
 
This office received two complaints from Christopher Kelleher on January 6, 2025, 
alleging that the Brookfield Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Mr. Kelleher originally filed his complaints with the 
Commission on October 111 and you responded on its behalf on October 24.2  The complainant 
alleges that at its meeting on October 8, the Commission concealed the names of candidates for 
positions on the Commission, while revealing his own name as the complainant in a previously 
filed Open Meeting Law complaint, and acted on crucial matters without formal votes.3   
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not 
 violate the Open Meeting 
Law when it did not identify candidates for positions on the Commission or when it revealed Mr. 
Kelleher’s identity in the context of an Open Meeting Law complaint.  We decline to review the 
remaining allegation of the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaints, the Commission’s responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s requests for 
further review.  We also reviewed the original notice and the minutes of the Commission’s 
October 8 meeting.    
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024 unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Hereinafter, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 When all allegations raised relate to the same meeting or are of a similar nature it is more efficient to file one Open 
Meeting Law complaint setting forth all allegations. We encourage the Complainant to consolidate complaints 
where possible. If more space is needed to describe the alleged violations than the complaint form itself provides, 
additional pages may be appended. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On September 30, the Commission posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on October 8.4  As amended, the meeting notice included, among other topics, 
the topics “Conservation Commission Candidate Review” and “Open Meeting Law Complaints 
– Christopher Kelleher.”  The meeting took place as scheduled.  When the Commission reached 
the topic of “Conservation Commission Candidate Review,” Chair Meeker stated that three 
individuals had approached him, expressing an interest to join the Commission.  The 
Commission then discussed the process of appointment but did not discuss the names or 
qualifications of the three candidates.  Later in the meeting, the Commission discussed Open 
Meeting Law complaints filed by Christopher Kelleher.  During that discussion, Commission 
members mentioned the complainant by name. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Commission did not violate the Law during its discussion of “Conservation 
Commission Candidate Review or “Open Meeting Law Complaints – Christopher 
Kelleher” 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The complainant alleges that the Commission concealed 
information from the public when it discussed three individuals’ interest in joining the 
Commission without identifying those individuals.  The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the 
content of a discussion at a meeting.  See OML 2024-176; OML 2023-35; OML 2022-189.5  Nor 
does the Law require that a public body discuss a matter in any particular depth.  See OML 
2023-107; OML 2023-12; OML 2022-231.  As explained in the Commission’s response, the 
discussion at the October 8 meeting was about the process of appointing new members of the 
Commission, not the qualifications of these three individuals.  The Commission could choose the 
level of detail devoted to the topic of “Conservation Commission Candidate Review” and did not 
violate the Law by omitting the candidates’ names from the discussion.  For the same reason, the 
Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the Open Meeting Law 
complaint in greater detail, including identifying the complainant.  To the extent that Mr. 
Kelleher complains that the Commission discloses personal information, i.e. the name of a 
complainant, “when it serves their interest,” we note that when signing the Open Meeting Law 
complaint form, Mr. Kelleher acknowledged that “[u]nder most circumstances, your complaint, 
and any documents submitted with your complaint, is considered a public record and will be 
available to any member of the public upon request.”   
 
  
 
4 The notice was amended on October 2.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. We decline to review the allegation that the Commission improperly took action 
without conducting formal votes. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that minutes include, among other things, “the decisions 
made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22.  The complainant relies on this provision for the proposition that all actions taken by a 
public body must be subject to vote, and in this case, by roll call vote as one of the Commission 
members attended the October 8 meeting remotely.6  This is not so.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that if a vote is taken, it must be accurately recorded in the minutes; it does not require 
that all actions be subject to a vote.  The Open Meeting Law identifies specific matters on which 
a public body must vote.  See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2) (majority of members must vote to 
enter executive session and vote of each member is to be recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes).  However, there is no requirement that a public body vote to refer candidates to the 
Select Board for appointment or that it vote to approve a response to an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the two examples referenced by the complainant.  The Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  Because the omission 
of a vote in these circumstances, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, we decline to review this allegation.  See OML 2021-32; OML 2019-85.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meet
ing Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc: Christopher Kelleher (via email: ) 
 Brookfield Town Administrator (via email: townadministrator@brookfieldma.us) 
 Brookfield Town Clerk (mseery@brookfieldma.us) 
 
 
 
 
6 Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates remotely 
shall be by roll call vote.”  940 CMR 29.10 (7) (c). 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  