===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 27, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 257 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Edmund R. St. John, III, Esq. 
2 Center Street 
Adams, MA 01220 
estjohn3adams@gmail.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney St. John: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on July 3, 2024, alleging that the 
Adams Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 3, 2024, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 13, 2024.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Board approved inaccurate minutes of its meeting held on April 17. 
 
After review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for review of the complaint.  We also viewed a video recording of 
the Board’s April 17 meeting.
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s July 17 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=34ZDhLg1R5E.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.3  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s April 17 meeting are inaccurate 
with regard to the summary of the Complainant’s remarks during the meeting’s public comment 
period.  During public comment, the Complainant approached the podium and raised various 
allegations of conflicts of interest by members of the Board and town staff, beginning with Board 
member Christine Hoyt.  The Complainant’s comments led to an exchange with town counsel,
4 
who advised that the Board would be unable to discuss or respond to the allegations without 
violating the Open Meeting Law and stated that the concerns could be placed on an agenda for 
discussion at a future meeting.  The Complainant was asked to submit her concerns in writing; 
she responded that she had a right to criticize her government and would be doing so.  The Board 
then advised the Complainant that she could speak for two more minutes.  The Complainant 
spoke for an additional two minutes during which she identified additional allegations of 
conflicts of interest by other Board members and town staff.  The minutes summarize the 
comments as “Catherine Foster, 10 Murray Street, approached the podium to ask about potential 
conflicts of interest between members of the hoard and town employees.  Town Counsel St. John 
interjected to explain open meeting law violation.  Chairman Hoyt explained the process of 
having this item placed on a future meeting agenda.” 
 
 After comparing the minutes of the Board’s July 17 meeting to the video recording of the 
me
eting, we find that the minutes capture a concise summary of the Complainant’s comments 
and the exchange that ensued, even though they do not capture every remark.  See OML 2017-
104; OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  A public body is not required to capture every comment 
made in order to substantially comply with the accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting 
Law.  See OML 2021-4; OML 2019-136.  Indeed, we have not required the level of detail and 
precision the Complainant seeks here.  See OML 2023-143; OML 2019-136 (finding that the 
public body substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement for meeting minutes 
when two members of the public spoke during a public comment period and the minutes 
captured some of the complainant’s comments but, according to the complainant, failed to 
capture at least ten points the complainant included in her remarks as well as comments made by 
another speaker).   
 
Furt
hermore, we reject the Complainant’s arguments that the minutes are inaccurate 
because they characterize the comments as a question.  Although it may have been more precise 
to state that the Complainant “asserted” or “alleged,” rather than “ask[ed] about,” conflicts of 
interest, we note that some of the Complainant’s remarks were, in fact, phrased as questions and 
in any event we do not find that this word choice rendered the minutes inaccurate.  We also 
reject the assertion that the minutes are inaccurate because they fail to document that the Town 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Administrator allegedly left th e room while the Complainant was speaking and that police 
entered the meeting room.  There was no discussion or even acknowledgment regarding 
summonsing police or the police presence, and therefore the minutes appropriately include no 
mention of such activities.  See OML 2023-202 (explaining that meeting minutes should 
summarize what was actually discussed at a meeting, not matters that were not discussed).  
Accordingly, we find that the Committee’s minutes comply with the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law and adequately capture the substance of the discussions that occurred so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have an 
understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2020-113; OML 2016-40. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Catherine Foster (by email: ) 
Adams Board of Selectmen, Chair John Duval (by email:  jduval@town.adams.ma.us) 
Adams Town Clerk (by email: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
Michael D’Ortenzio, Esq. (by email: mdortenzio@k-plaw.com) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
