===PAGE 1===
   
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.goviago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 25, 2011 
OML 2011- 21 
Patricia Roggeveen 
Chair 
Nantucket Board of Selectmen 
16 Broad St. 
Nantucket, MA 02554 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Roggeveen, 
This office received a complaint filed by Mary Wawro on March 8, 2011, alleging that 
the Nantucket Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that, "[o]n December 8, 2010, the Nantucket Board 
of Selectmen discussed and voted on a matter that had not been posted on its agenda 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting as required by the Massachusetts Open Meeting Law." The complaint 
was originally filed with the Board on or about December 29, 2010, and we received the Board's 
response to the original complaint, dated January 21, 2011. 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the December 29, 2010 and March 8, 2011 complaints; the Board's 
January 21, 2011 response to the original complaint; the meeting notices and the minutes for the 
December 8, 2010 and January 5, 2011 meetings; and a partial transcript of the December 8, 
2010 meeting, which was provided to our Office by the complainant. Finally, we interviewed 
you via telephone on April 8, 2011. 
FACTS 
On June 23, 2010, the Board met in open session to consider, among other topics, 
approval of human services contracts. Following the Board's approval of the contracts, members 
of the Nantucket Council for Human Services (the "Council") alleged that two members of the 
===PAGE 2===
Board acted on the contracts despite conflicts of interest. Specially, they alleged that the two 
Board members served as officers or directors for two of the service providers awarded contracts 
by the Board. On November 15, 2010, the Council sent a letter to the Board conveying its 
concerns about the alleged conflicts. The Board discussed the Council's letter at its November 
17, 2010 open meeting, but took no action. At the Board's December 1, 2010 meeting, members 
of the Council read aloud a statement to the Board in response to the Board's November 17, 
2010 discussion regarding the Council's November 15, 2010 letter. In concluding her statement 
at the December 1, 2010 meeting, the chair of the Council stated that, "[w]e ask nothing more 
than that the Board look into these matters, address them and resolve any outstanding issues .so 
that the public may have continued confidence in the Board's contract approval process." The 
Board took no action regarding the Council's allegation during the December 1, 2010 meeting. 
On December 8, 2010, the Board met in open session. The meeting notice did not list a 
topic regarding the human services contracts or the Council's letter and subsequent statement. 
Toward the end of the meeting, the Board reached a section on the agenda listed in the meeting 
notice as "Selectmen's Report/Comment." During this section of the meeting, you asked if any 
members of the Board wished to offer any other reports. Selectmen Rick Atherton responded: 
Just back again to the comments from the human services folks a few weeks ago. This 
one has to do with the vote to approve contracts I believe for [fiscal year 2011] and they 
questioned the, I'm not sure what the right phrase is, but the validity of the vote. I think 
that's an easy item to clear up so I would hope that we make that either an agenda item or 
I'm perfectly happy to vote it right now but, probably better be an agenda item. Put it on 
and let's just revote it. 
Other Selectmen at the meeting responded favorably to holding a vote to confirm the 
human services contracts. After brief discussion, Selectman Atherton moved that "the Board 
approve the human services contract previously presented at the meeting of [June 23, 2010]." 
The Board approved the motion, with four votes in favor and one abstention. During a telephone 
interview with our Office, you stated that you did not have any conversations with Board 
members regarding the human services contracts in advance of the December 8, 2011 meeting, 
and that none of the Board members informed you that they had planned to raise the issue. 
The Board's policy on considering topics during the "Selectmen's Report/ Comment" 
portion of the meeting states: 
Individual Selectmen may have matters to bring to the attention of the Board. If the 
matter contemplates action by the Board, Selectmen will consult with the Chair and/or 
Town Manager in advance and provide any needed information by the Thursday before 
the meeting. Otherwise, except in emergencies, the Board will not normally take action 
on Selectmen Comment. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30, §§ 20(b), states in relevant part that, "[e]xcept in an 
2 
===PAGE 3===
emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice 
of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays... Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the 
date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." Any topic discussed at a meeting that was reasonably 
anticipated by the chair of the public body must be listed in a meeting notice at least 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with, 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. However, topics that arise within the 48 hours of the meeting, that 
the chair did not reasonably anticipate would be discussed at the meeting, may be added to the 
agenda and considered by the public body. 
Here, the Board discussed and voted on a topic at its December 8, 2010 meeting that was 
not listed in the meeting notice—the re-vote of the human services contracts. The complaint 
alleges that the Board chair, "should have reasonably anticipated that the matter of a 'revote' 
would  be discussed by the Board and therefore should have put this matter on the Board's 
agenda." (emphasis in original). While the topic of the human services contracts was a 
controversial issue present throughout the previous month of the Board's meetings, there is no 
evidence that the chair anticipated the re-vote on the contracts, or could have reasonably 
anticipated it would be raised by a member of the Board during the "Selectmen's Report / 
Comments" portion of the meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair to 
guess which topics might be raised by Board members, only that the public body list in the 
meeting notice those topics "reasonably anticipated by the chair." G.L. c. 30, §§ 20(b). During 
your telephone interview with this office, you stated that you did not have any conversations 
with Board members regarding the human services contracts in advance of the December 8, 2011 
meeting, and that none of the Board members informed you that they planned to raise the issue 
for a vote. It therefore appears this item was not reasonably anticipated. 
Although the Board's actions did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we remind the 
Board that the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and 
action on topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if those topics 
were not listed in the meeting notice. In addition, we note that the Board's own policy states 
that, "except in emergencies, the Board will not normally take action on Selectmen Comment." 
Since there was no emergency here, the Board should have postponed the revote on the human 
services contracts to a subsequent meeting, after the topic had been listed in a meeting notice and 
posted for the benefit of the public. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Nantucket Board of Selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
re-voting on the human services contracts during its December 8, 2010 meeting. We make no 
finding as to the allegations that Board members acted with conflicts of interest, as this subject 
area is not addressed by the Open Meeting Law and is more appropriate for review by the agency 
that enforces the Commonwealth's Conflict of Interest Law, the State Ethics Commission. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact me at the number below. 
Sincerel 
/onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Mary Wawro 
C. Elizabeth Gibson, Town Manager 
4 