===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 7, 2016 
OML 2016-27 
John J. Coughlin, Esq. 
Bogle, DeAscentis & Coughlin, P.C. 
57 North Main Street 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coughlin: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Patch, dated January 4, 2016, alleging that 
the Hingham Sewer Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on November 4, 2015, 
and the Commission responded by letter dated November 24, 2015. In his complaint, Mr. Patch 
alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Commission's 
response; and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the minutes 
of a Commission meeting held on October 6, 2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. On September 22, 2015, the Commission received an Open 
Meeting Law complaint. Upon receiving this complaint. Commission Chairman Robert Higgins 
prepared a draft response to this complaint. The Commission held a meeting on October 6, 
2015. During this meeting. Chair Higgins read his proposed response, entitled "Open Meeting 
Law Complaint Law Notes," to the other Commissioners. This response read, in part, as 
follows: 
We have received cm Open Meeting Law Complaint that was filed by Michael Mullaley 
on September 22, 2015. We do understand the complaint. 
We feel we do our best to post what M'e are going to talk about on our agendas. We 
didn 7 try to hide anything. These -were common projects that have been going on for [a 
while]. In [the] future M>e will review our [agendas] more carefully. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
After this draft response was read, Commissioner Kenneth Johnson made a motion 
authorizing Chairman Higgins to work with Town Counsel to file the response. The motion was 
seconded and passed with a unanimous vote. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive sessions is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines 
"deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Commissioners deliberated outside of a noticed 
meeting in preparing the draft response discussed during the October 6, 2015 meeting. In its 
response to the complaint. Chairman Higgins stated that the draft response was solely his own 
statement and that he never discussed it with or distributed it to the other Commissioners, either 
directly or through staff. The complaint suggests that the use of the word "we" in the letter is 
evidence that improper deliberation took place. In past determination letters, we have stated that 
the use of the plural tense, standing alone, is insufficient to demonstrate that deliberation 
occurred outside of a meeting. See OML 2016-15. In the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, we credit Chairman Higgins' statement that his draft response did not reflect discussion 
between or among a quorum of the Commissioners, and we find that the Commission did not 
deliberate outside of a meeting and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
BOA, § 18; OML 2013-133; OML 2011-40; OML 2011-52. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Thomas Patch 
Hingham Sewer Commission 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 