===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 18, 2017 
OML 2017-13 
Sharon McCarthy 
Chair, Harvard Board of Health 
13 Ayer Road 
Harvard, MA 01451 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. McCarthy: 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on November 25, 
alleging that the Harvard Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 6, and 
the Board responded in a memorandum to the complainant, dated October 25, which the 
complainant forwarded to our office.2 In her complaint, Ms. Skauen-Hinchliffe alleges that a 
member of the Board raised two topics during the Board's September 27 meeting that were not 
listed on the meeting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice and minutes of the Board's September 27 meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by 
telephone on December 6.3 
We find the facts as follows. On September 22, the Board posted notice of a meeting 
scheduled for September 27. During the meeting. Board member Libby Levison raised two 
topics that were not listed on the notice. Although Chair McCarthy was generally familiar with 
the two topics—the process for responding to an email from a State Senator's office to the Board 
and a discussion of a drought and limiting water use in Town—she did not anticipate the Board 
discussing them during the September 27 meeting. Nevertheless, the Board briefly discussed the 
topics. However, those discussions were not included in the minutes. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We remind the Board that public bodies must send a copy of its response to both our office and the complainant. 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 23(b). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." Id. 
The complaint alleges that Ms. Levison raised two topics during the Board's September 
27 meeting that were not listed on the meeting notice. Because Chair McCarthy did not 
anticipate discussing those topics during that particular meeting, the Board was not required to 
list them on the notice. See OML 2017-2.4 However, we note that, while public bodies may 
discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 
hours in advance of the meeting, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such 
topics until proper notice can be given to the public. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. We note 
that the Board has since formalized its notice posting procedures. Additionally, because the 
Board discussed the topics during the meeting, the minutes should accurately summarize the 
discussion. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 20(b). We recommend that the Board amend its minutes 
accordingly. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
A Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 