===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 3, 2021 
OML 2021 - 157
Frank Parker 
Chair, Everett School Committee 
337 Broadway 
Everett, MA 02149 
By email only:  
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Parker: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Fitzgerald on July 1, 2021, alleging that the 
Everett School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 27, and you responded
to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, on July 24, 2021, following an extension of time
granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee meeting held on
April 5 are inaccurate.
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, the notice and minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on April 5, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2  We find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on April 5 is available at: 
https://www.everettpublicschools.org/apps/pages/index.jsp?uREC_ID=1618426&type=d&pREC_ID=2094409. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.3  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2012-106.   
 
During the April 5 meeting, all ten Committee members were present although some 
members participated remotely while other members were present in the physical meeting 
location at the Everett High School library.  The Committee discussed two Open Meeting Law 
complaints that had been filed by the complainant in February and March.  Chair Frank Parker 
stated that one complaint appeared to be without merit, but the second complaint appeared to 
have merit because the School Councils posted notice that did not specify the location of certain 
meetings or information on how the public could access the meetings.  Chair Parker suggested 
that the Committee move to accept the complaints as well as the responses drafted by him.  The 
Committee then voted by roll call “to accept the Open Meeting Law complaints as submitted by 
Mr Steven Fitzgerald on Feb. 21, 2021 and responded [sic] accordingly.”  Chair Parker 
announced that there were eight votes in the affirmative, but the minutes reflect that all ten 
members voted in the affirmative.   
 
After reviewing the video recording of the Committee’s April 5, meeting, we find that the 
roll call vote that was recorded in the minutes does not accurately reflect the actual vote that was 
taken.  Rather, we find Chair Parker’s announcement that only eight members voted in the 
affirmative to be correct.  Although each of the ten members’ names was called, only eight 
members can be heard responding and actually voting in the affirmative.  To be “accurate,” 
meeting minutes must accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting, 
including the record of all votes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2020-62.  We find that the 
Committee did not accurately capture in the minutes the vote that occurred with respect to the 
discussion of how to respond to the Open Meeting Law complaints.  See OML 2021-128. 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to accurately record the roll call vote in the minutes of its April 5 meeting that the 
Committee took with respect to responding to the Open Meeting Law complaints.  We order the 
Committee to revise the minutes of the Committee’s April 5 meeting to accurately reflect this 
vote and to certify to this office within thirty (30) days of the date of this letter that it has done 
so.  See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4).  We also order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steven Fitzgerald – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
