===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       January 29, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 18 
 
 
Anthony Savastano, Esq.  
404 County Street 
New Bedford, MA 02740 
 
By email only: anthony@savastanolawfirm.com  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Savastano: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gregory Edgcomb on February 6, 2023, alleging 
that the Dartmouth Fire District No. 2 Prudential Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on November 9, 2022, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter 
dated November 29, 2022.  The complaint alleges that the Committee entered executive session 
for an improper purpose on November 8, 2022.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee convened in executive session for a proper purpose and 
therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on November 2, 2022, the notice and open and executive session 
minutes of the Committee meeting held on November 8, 2022, as well as the letter read by the 
complainant during the Committee’s November 2, 2022, meeting.  Finally, we spoke with you 
via telephone on July 27, 2023, and August 18, 2023.
1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
November 2, 2022, at 1:00 P.M.  The notice listed one topic – “Interview Applicant’s for Fire 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Chief Position.”2  The complainant, who at that time was the Acting Fire Chief, was one of two 
candidates to be interviewed for the position of Fire Chief.   
 
The November 2, 2022, meeting was held as planned.  Prior to his interview, the 
complainant informed the Committee that he had retained legal counsel and was submitting a 
“letter of protest.”  He then read that letter into the record in which he alleged that the Committee 
had violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting on 
several occasions and shared his belief that the Committee would not hire him as Fire Chief.  
Immediately thereafter, Attorney Anthony Savastano recommended that, “based on the 
threatening statement and letter, the Committee should adjourn” and reconvene in a properly 
posted executive session “to discuss threatened and imminent litigation.” 
 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on November 8, 2022, at 11 A.M.  
The notice listed the following topics: “Discussion on ongoing assignment of Acting Chief 
duties;” and an Executive Session to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations 
with nonunion personnel, Fire Chief” and “discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares: Potential and threatened litigation by Gregory Edgcomb.” 
 
The November 8, 2022, meeting was held as planned and the Committee convened in 
open session.  Chair Bob Bouley announced that he was “taking matters out of order and would 
first entertain a motion to go into executive session.”  Committee member Bill Couto than moved 
to enter executive session stating the reasons listed on the notice and Chair Bouley declared that 
discussing strategy with respect to threatened and imminent litigation may have a detrimental 
effect on the litigating position of the Committee.  The Committee then approved a unanimous 
vote by roll call to convene in executive session and announced that it would resume in open 
session after the conclusion of the executive session.   
 
The minutes of the executive session are sparse and do not include a detailed account of 
the discussions by the Committee during the executive discussion.  Even so, because the 
Committee has not publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount 
their content in detail here.  However, according to Attorney Savastano, during the executive 
session, the Committee met with him as counsel to discuss the complainant’s letter and the 
possibility that the facts asserted therein could lead to litigation.  The Committee did not discuss 
matters pertaining to contract negotiations in executive session. 
 
The Committee returned to open session after the conclusion of the executive session and 
discussed the “ongoing assignment” of the Acting Fire Chief’s duties.  Member Couto then made 
a motion to end the complainant’s role as Acting Chief, and related additional pay, effective at 5 
P.M. on November 11, 2022.  The motion was approved by majority vote. 
 
 
 
 
2 We remind the Committee that the names of interviewees and applicants for appointment which are known 48 
hours in advance of a meeting should be posted on a meeting notice.  See OML 2020-80; OML 2019-24; OML 
2016-150; OML 2013-163.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
res
pect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee improperly met in executive session on 
Novem
ber 8, 2022, to discuss litigation strategy where no litigation was clearly or imminently 
threatened.  After review of the executive session minutes and discussions with Attorney 
Savastano, we find that the November 8, 2022, discussions related to litigation that the 
Committee reasonably believed was clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely.  Here, the Committee entered into executive session during its November 8, 
2022, meeting under Purpose 3 because legal counsel believed it was necessary to discuss with 
the Committee the potential consequences of the complainant’s letter that was read and 
submitted to the Committee during the November 2, 2022, meeting, including litigation.  Though 
the complainant’s letter did not explicitly threaten litigation, counsel interpreted the letter, as 
well as statements made by the complainant during the November 2, 2022, meeting, as carrying 
such a threat, and the Committee followed counsel’s advice when it decided to discuss the matter 
in executive session.  Based on the totality of circumstances, we find that the Committee 
reasonably believed that the complainant’s letter was intended to lay the groundwork for 
litigation, and that such litigation was imminently threatened, based on advice of counsel. 
Therefore, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive 
session under Purpose 3.  See OML 2020-76; OML 2014-134; OML 2012-5.  Additionally, 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
because Purpose 3 does not require notice to specific individuals, the Committee did not violate 
the la
w by not providing the complainant with individual advance notice of the executive 
session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2019-64 (where a discussion may properly be held 
under Purpose 3, the public body is not required to afford the subject of the discussion the rights 
granted under Purpose 1); OML 2012-53 (determining that, where a public body lawfully entered 
into executive session under Purpose 3, it did not need to also follow the procedural requirements 
for Purpose 1).  
 
Finally, we note that the Committe
 e’s November 8, 2022, executive session minutes do 
not appear to be sufficiently detailed.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2016-105.  Based on our in camera review of the minutes of the Committee’s November 8, 
2022, executive session, we note that the minutes appear inadequate to meet the standard 
required by the Open Meeting Law because they do not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of 
the Committee’s discussions.  We recommend that the Committee amend these executive session 
meeting minutes in accordance with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on November 8, 2022, to discuss litigation strategy.  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Committee.  Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Gregory Edgcomb – By email only:  
Dartmouth Fire District No. 2 Prudential Committee c/o Ralph G. Medeiros – By email 
only: ralph@ralphscars.com 
Dartmouth Town Clerk – By email only: clerk@town.dartmouth.ma.us 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 