===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 10, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 100 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Sarah C. Spatafore, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLC 
 
sspatafore@mhtl.com 
    
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Spatafore:  
 
On January 28, 2026, this office received a complaint from Kara Vautour, alleging that 
the Norwell School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 7, 2026.  You 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated January 16, 2026.  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee discussed a topic at a meeting it held on December 15, 2025, that was not 
listed with sufficient specificity on the meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and a 
recording of the December 15 meeting.1 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
December 15, 2025, at 6:00 p.m.  The list of topics on the notice included a heading “5.0 
BUSINESS ITEMS.”  Below that heading were listed eight topics of discussion, the seventh of 
which was “School Committee Member Reports.”   
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  Chair Kristin McEachern opened the meeting 
by reading a statement from a typed document.  The statement took approximately eight minutes 
to read.  It was, in Chair McEachern’s words, a “clarification” and “correction” of public 
 
1 We accessed the recording at www.norwellschools.org/school-committee/members-meeting-information.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
comments Kara Vautour made at the prior meeting, which took place on November 24, 2025.  
Specifically, Chair McEachern addressed Ms. Vautour’s comments about teacher contract 
negotiations; the school committee’s input on the operating budget; staff cuts; and the status of 
reading specialist staffing.  Chair McEachern defended the Committee as being transparent and 
thoughtful in its decision making and labeled Ms. Vautour’s public comments counterproductive, 
divisive and disingenuous.  After concluding her remarks, Chair McEachern opened the floor to 
other committee members.  Members supported Chair McEachern’s position, with one member 
saying that she appreciated Chair McEachern’s “data-driven response.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Topics that arise less than 48 hours before the meeting, 
and were not reasonably anticipated, may be discussed by the public body, even if they were not 
listed in the meeting notice.  See, e.g., OML 2024-190 (finding no violation of Open Meeting 
Law when Board member gave statement about newspaper editorial published on day of 
meeting).2   
 
The list of topics must be sufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2024-180; OML 2019-134; 
OML 2015- 35.  The Open Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient 
specificity so that the public can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting to 
observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 
2018-22.  Boilerplate topics and placeholder topics lack the specificity required by the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-150; OML 2021-121; OML 2013-164.  We have found, for 
example, that “Chairman’s Report” does not sufficiently describe a topic on a meeting notice.  
See OML 2012-34.  See also OML 2015-74 (“Best practice is ... to use ‘Old Business’ as a 
heading below which more specific topics are listed.”)   
 
 For the first eight minutes of the December 15 meeting, Chair McEachern read a 
prepared statement which touched on negotiations of teacher contracts, the Norwell schools’ 
operating budget, and staff reductions, among other things.  These topics fall squarely within the 
jurisdiction of the Committee.  Indeed, during the bulk of her statement, Chair McEachern 
defended the Committee’s handling of these issues.  After Chair McEachern finished making her 
statement, two other Committee members expressed their agreement with the Chair.  The 
Committee does not argue that the topics of the Chair’s statements were unanticipated prior to 
the December 15 meeting.  Because the topics of the Chair’s statement were not listed on the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
notice of the December 15 meeting, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
discussed them. 
 
We briefly address several arguments that the Committee raises in its response.  First, the 
Committee attempts to shoehorn the Chair’s prepared statement into the noticed topic “School 
Committee Member Reports.”  However, during the meeting neither the Chair nor anyone else 
on the Committee suggested that the statement was being offered as a “School Committee 
Member Report.”  Even if the statement were clearly read as a “member report,” however, that 
noticed topic was not sufficiently specific to satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s notice requirement.  
A member of the public could not read the topic “School Committee Member Reports” and 
understand the anticipated nature of the Chair’s statement. 
 
Second, the Committee argues that the Chair’s prepared statement was “personal” in 
nature and that it was made to correct falsehoods from the last meeting.  That the purpose of a 
discussion is to correct perceived misstatements does not remove it from the reach of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2026-9 (notice topic “Open Public Forum and Response to 
Misinformation” was not sufficiently specific to notify public of anticipated statement of chair in 
response to allegedly false statements made in social media post).  Moreover, a statement by a 
member of a public body constitutes deliberation even if it does not lead to a discussion 
involving other members of the body.  See OML 2024-190; OML 2024-23 (noting that “the 
expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to 
a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds”).  
On multiple occasions, we have considered prepared statements read by public body members to 
constitute deliberation.  See OML 2024-190; OML 2023-199.  The topic should have been 
included on the notice, regardless of whether its purpose was to address alleged falsehoods and 
regardless of the extent to which other members were expected to contribute to the discussion.   
 
Third, the Committee maintains that the Chair’s prepared statement was read “as a point 
of personal privilege under Robert’s Rules of Order.”  It could very well be that the Chair’s 
statement was made in conformance with Robert’s Rules.  However, the Division of Open 
Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
See OML Declination 3-27-26 (Boston City Council).  We do not review compliance with a 
public body’s own rules, or with any rules of procedure other than those set out in the Open 
Meeting Law.  Id.  See also OML Declination 1-19-2016 (Southborough Zoning Board of 
Appeals) (declining to review whether town bylaws or public hearing laws were violated); OML 
Declination 9-4-2012 (Cambridge Historical Commission) (declining to review whether the 
Commission violated its own policies).  That the Committee’s actions complied with Robert’s 
Rules does not cure the Committee’s violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when Chair McEachern read a statement about topics that were not listed in the notice of the 
December 15, 2025, meeting.  We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Kara Vautour (via email: ) 
Kristin McEachern, Chair, Norwell School Committee (via email: 
kristin.mceachern@norwellschools.org) 
Dannielle C. Shepherd, Norwell Town Clerk (via email: dshepherd@townofnorwell.net) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.   
