===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
        
September 29, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 152 
 
 
James Donnelly, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 410 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
By email only: jdonnelly@mhtl.com  
 
 RE: Open
  Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Donnelly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on May 2, 2025, alleging 
that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 28, 
2025, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 17, 2025.  The 
complaint alleges that the Committee improperly voted to approve the Superintendent’s contract 
during an executive session held on March 13, 2025. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on March 13, 2025, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on 
March 13, 2025, at 5:30 P.M.  The notice first listed an Executive Session under Purpose 3 to 
“discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have 
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on March 13, 2025, is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=neldkY3GPjE&list=PLypOllJHc4M1ignPVT4JH-EhUiWmBsJxu&index=8.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body (Medfield 
Teachers’ Association Unit B)” and under Purpose 2 to “conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel (Superintendent).”  The notice then listed four main topic 
headings, including Consent Agenda, New Business, Old Business, and Informational Items.  
The notice listed four specific item descriptions that further advised the public of the topics to be 
discussed under New Business, one of which was “Superintendent’s Contract Extension - Vote.”   
 
The March 13, 2025, meeting was held as planned and the Committee first convened in 
open session and then convened in executive session for the two purposes listed on the notice.  
During the executive session, the Committee discussed extending the contract of the 
Superintendent.  The minutes, which have been publicly released, state “The Committee reached 
a consensus, and the Vice Chair called for a motion to approve the contract extension.”  A 
motion was made by Committee Vice Chair Timothy Knight, which was seconded by Committee 
Member Diana Frascella, to approve the Superintendent’s contract extension, and the Committee 
then unanimously voted by roll call to approve the contract extension. 
 
The Committee reconvened in open session at 6:04 P.M. and discussed approved two sets 
of meeting minutes, received an overview of the Multi-Tiered System of Supports which is 
designed to ensure a high quality of education for all students, and approved disposal of outdated 
curriculum materials.  The Committee then discussed the Superintendent’s contract extension.  
Vice Chair Knight explained that the Committee had been discussing a contract extension in 
executive session for several months and working with the Superintendent on agreeable terms.  
The minutes then state “Mr. Knight was pleased to report to the public that the Committee had 
voted on the contract extension in an executive session before the meeting.  He informed the 
public that the Committee would now vote on the terms publicly, and those terms would be 
included in the public packet afterward.”   
 
Prior to voting on the contract, the Committee heard from members of the public who 
requested the specific terms of the Superintendent’s contract extension.  After hearing from 
members of the public, Committee Member Will Horne made a motion to approve the 
Superintendent’s contract extension, which was seconded by Ms. Frascella, and the Committee 
then unanimously voted by roll call to approve the contract extension. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduct strategy sessions in 
prepa
ration for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  While the Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel in executive session, it does not authorize a public body to approve a 
contract in executive session.  See OML 2013-91; OML 2011-56; OML 2011-44.   
 
During the March 13, 2025, m eeting, the Committee convened in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 2 and discussed whether to extend the contract of the Superintendent.  After 
reaching a consensus on contract terms, the Committee then voted by roll to approve the contract 
extension.  The Committee suggests “[a]lthough the vote as taken was to, ‘approve the contract 
extension,’ the Committee clearly did not see itself as executing the contract.”  Rather, the 
Committee “was instead seeking to agree on terms” as the notice clearly indicated “it would take 
the final vote to execute the contract upon returning to open session.”  We disagree.  The scope 
of Purpose 2 is limited to the discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to the 
execution of a contract.  See OML 2023-78.  The Open Meeting Law does not permit a public 
body to execute a contract behind closed doors where the public cannot witness the agreement.  
A public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, but it 
must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.  See OML 2023-
78; OML 2021-187; OML 2011-44.  A public body does not violate the Open Meeting Law 
where it reaches consensus on the terms of an employment contract in executive session, even 
taking a vote to confirm that consensus, and then formally approves the contract in open session.  
See OML 2024-52; OML 2019-51; OML 2015-184.  We find here that the Committee was not 
simply reaching a consensus or deciding on a course of action with respect to the contract 
extension during the executive session.  See OML 2021-5; OML 2018-146.  Rather, the 
Committee actually voted to approve the contract extension while in executive session, and we 
therefore find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2012-10; OML 
2011-28. 
 
Although we find a violation, we also find that the Committee remedied that violation 
when i
t reconvened in open session on March 13, 2025, and voted to approve the contract 
extension.  Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative 
action that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in 
violation of the Law.  See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 
125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.  Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew 
at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided.  
Here, the Committee was not required to conduct the contract negotiations in open session in the 
first place; it was only required to vote to approve the contract extension in open session.  
Therefore, only the vote needed to be conducted anew in open session in order to remedy the 
prior violation.  We find that the vote the Committee took when it reconvened in open session 
during the March 13, 2025, meeting constituted sufficient remedial action.  See OML 2021-187. 
Although we recommend as a best practice that public bodies disclose the specific terms that 
were negotiated in executive session under Purpose 2, we do not construe the Open Meeting Law 
as requiring such specificity in the open session vote. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an inte ntional 
one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  We previously advised the Committee that the Open Meeting Law does not authorize a 
public body to approve a contract in executive session.  See OML 2020-101.  However, we 
decline to find the Committee’s violation of the Open Meeting Law here to be intentional where 
the Committee was found in violation of the law five years ago and we have not found the 
Committee to have similarly violated the law in the intervening five years between this 
complaint and our 2020 determination.  See OML 2019-98; OML 2019-84; 940 CMR 
29.04(l)(b).  Moreover, it appears the Committee attempted in good faith to revise its practices 
with respect to the approval of contracts to comport with the guidance issued in our 2020 
determination as the Committee posted notice that a vote on the contract extension would occur 
in open session and then voted on the contract extension after reconvening in open session, 
notwithstanding its initial vote in executive session.  Thus, we decline to find that this violation 
is intentional.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by voting in executive session on March 13, 2025, to extend the Superintendent’s contract, but 
that the Committee remedied this violation when it reconvened in open session and subsequently 
voted to extend the contract.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with 
the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the  
Committee.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts – By email only:  
Medfield School Committee – By email only: scchair@email.medfield.net 
Medfield Town Clerk Marion Bonoldi – By email only: mbonoldi@medfield.net  
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 