===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 21, 2013 
OML 2013 - 80 
John Amato 
Chair 
Police Chief Search Committee 
557 Main St. 
Becket, MA 01223 
Mark Karlberg 
Chair 
Becket Board of Selectmen 
557 Main St. 
Becket, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chairs Amato and Karlberg: 
This office received two complaints filed by Angela Hilton, dated August 6, 2012, 
alleging that the Becket Board of Selectmen (the "Board") and the Becket Police Chief Search 
Committee (the "Search Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints allege that the Board created the Search Committee with seven members, though 
by law it should have consisted of fewer than a quorum of the members of the parent body -- in 
this case, the three-member Board. The complaints also allege that the Search Committee did 
not state the purpose for entering into executive session during its March 29, 2012; April 10, 
2012; April 19, 2012; May 3, 2012, and May 10, 2012 meetings. Finally, the complaints allege 
that the Search Committee "conducted all of the interviews for Police Chief in executive session 
then the Town Administrator went on to interview them again in private [so that no candidate 
was ever interviewed in an open meeting." The complaints were originally filed with the Board 
and the Search Committee on or about July 3, 2012. The Board responded to the first complaint 
by letter dated July 18, 2012. Following an extension granted by our office, the Search 
Committee responded to the second complaint by letter dated August 8, 2012. 
===PAGE 2===
Following our review, we find that neither the Board nor the Search Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the two July 3, 2012 
complaints; the Board's July 18, 2012 response; the Search Committee's August 8, 2012 
response; and the August 6, 2012 complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed 
the minutes of the Board's February 15, 2012; June 6, 2012; and June 27, 2012 meetings. We 
reviewed the notices for the Search Committee's March 29, 2012; April 20, 2012; April 19, 
2012; May 3, 2012; May 10, 2012 and July 30, 2012 meetings. We also reviewed the minutes of 
the Search Committee's July 30, 2012 meeting. Finally, we reviewed an undated memorandum 
sent by Search Committee Chair John Amatol  to the Board, and a June 5, 2012 memorandum 
sent by Search Committee Chair Amato to the Board. 
FACTS 
On February 15, 2012, the Board voted to create the seven-member Police Chief Search 
Committee. The Board appointed the Search Committee members during the meeting. The 
Board did not appoint any of its own members to the Search Committee. The minutes of the 
Board's February 15, 2012 meeting do not reflect a specific charge to the Search Committee, but 
the Board's July 18, 2012 response to the complaint states that the Search Committee was 
"charged with reviewing applications for the position and providing the Town Administrator 
with a list of the top applicants." 
The Search Committee met throughout the spring of 2012. Each meeting was convened 
in open session. Search Committee Chair Amato writes in that body's August 8, 2012 response 
to the complaint that "prior to going to each [executive] session we did state the reason and then 
voted on that reason. We neglected to list this in our minutes due to the fact that we had stated 
the reason in the agenda for each meeting, and we mistakenly felt this was sufficient. We have 
amended our minutes to correct this procedural error, and apologize to you if this caused you any 
problem." 
On June 5, 2012, the Search Committee provided the Board with a memorandum, in 
which the Search Committee writes that "[i]t was our understanding that you would conduct 
interviews of the final candidates in open session, and we strongly recommend that you hold 
these interviews in open session in an effort to shed light on the process." 
During the Board's June 6, 2012 meeting, the Search Committee presented its top three 
police chief candidates to the Board and the Town Administrator. The Chair of the Search 
Committee recommended that the Board interview the candidates in open session. The Town 
Administrator announced that he would be conducting the interviews privately. The Town 
Administrator conducted the interviews, and recommended a candidate to the Board. That 
candidate was not one of the three candidates recommended by the Search Committee, though 
the candidate had been considered by the Search Committee during the preliminary screening 
process. The Town Charter and the Town Bylaws both contain a section stating that the Town 
1 For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Administrator, with the approval of the Board, shall appoint "all department heads, all officers 
and subordinates and employees for whom no other method of appointment is provided."2  The 
Board voted to accept the Town Administrator's recommendation, and the new Police Chief was 
appointed on June 27, 2012. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may create a preliminary screening committee to interview applicants for 
employment or appointment. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 21(a)(8). That preliminary screening 
committee may meet in executive session under Purpose 8 to "consider or interview applicants 
for employment or appointment...if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and 
interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). A 
"preliminary screening" is defined as "the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a 
committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public 
body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview." G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. A preliminary screening committee "must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of 
the parent body. It may contain additional members who are not members of the parent body." 
Open Meeting Law Frequently Asked Questions, found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Finally, a public body must maintain accurate minutes of every meeting, that include the "date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The complaints allege that the Search Committee's composition was improper because it 
consisted of seven members, when the Board itself has only three members. However, none of 
the Board members served on the Search Committee. Although the Attorney General advises 
that a preliminary screening committee "must consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of 
the parent body," it does not need to contain any members of the parent body, and "may contain 
additional members who are not members of the parent body." Open Meeting Law Frequently 
Asked Questions, supra. Therefore, the Search Committee's composition was valid. 
The complaints also allege that that the Search Committee did not state the purpose for 
entering into executive session during its March 29, 2012; April 10, 2012; April 19, 2012; May 
3, 2012, and May 10, 2012 meetings. In his August 8, 2012 letter, Search Committee Chair 
Amato writes that "prior to going to each [executive] session we did state the reason and then 
voted on that reason. We neglected to list this in our minutes due to the fact that we had stated 
the reason in the agenda for each meeting, and we mistakenly felt this was sufficient. We have 
amended our minutes to correct this procedural error, and apologize to you if this caused you any 
problem." Because there are no video or audio recordings of the Search Committee's meetings, 
we cannot confirm whether the Chair did state the purpose for entering executive session at each 
meeting. However, we are satisfied that the Search Committee is aware of its obligation to state 
2  Town's Special Act Charter, Ch. 622 of the Acts of 1989, § 11; Bylaws, Article 2B, § 11. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the purpose for an executive session before voting to enter into executive session and, in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, we credit the Chair's assertion that he stated the executive 
session purpose before entering into executive session at each meeting and find no violation. 
Finally, the complaints allege that the Search Committee "conducted all of the interviews 
for Police Chief in executive session then the Town Administrator went on to interview them 
again in private [so that] no candidate was ever interviewed in an open meeting." A public body 
may establish a preliminary screening committee "for the purpose of providing to the public 
body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview." G.L. c. 30A, 
§18. A preliminary screening committee may enter into executive session to interview 
candidates during a preliminary screening process. G.L c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). However, Purpose 8 
does not apply to "any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening." Id. 
Here, the Search Committee met for the purpose of providing the Board with a list of 
applicants it deemed qualified for further consideration. The Search Committee conducted its 
preliminary screening in executive session, and recommended three finalists to the Board during 
the Board's June 6, 2012 open meeting. The Search Committee Chair writes in his June 5, 2012 
memorandum to the Board that "[i]t was our understanding that you would conduct interviews of 
the final candidates in open session, and we strongly recommend that you hold these interviews 
in open session in an effort to shed light on the process." The Search Committee did not conduct 
any additional interviews. The Town Administrator conducted his own interviews, and 
recommended a candidate to the Board who was not among the three finalists recommended by 
the Search Committee. The Search Committee followed the law by meeting in executive session 
only during the preliminary screening stage, and recommending to the Board a list of candidates 
it deemed qualified for further consideration. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 21(a)(8). That the Town 
Administrator subsequently conducted his own interviews and chose a candidate to recommend 
to the Board did not make this process illegal. The Town Administrator is not subject to the 
Open Meeting Law because he is not a public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Town 
Administrator had the authority under both the Town Charter and Bylaws to recommend a 
candidate to the Board for its approval, and could have interviewed his own slate of candidates at 
any time.3  
3  The Board's response to the complaint indicates that it charged the Search Committee with making 
recommendations to the Town Administrator. The Search Committee, however, understood its mission as 
recommending finalists to the Board. The factual distinction is important. It would have been inappropriate for the 
Board to create a preliminary screening committee with the intention of having that body refer finalists to someone 
other than the Board for final review. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The definition of "Preliminary Screening" makes clear 
that such committees may be established to provide to the public body a list of applicants qualified for further 
consideration or interview. Id. Because, here, the Search Committee understood its charge to be reviewing 
candidates who would ultimately be referred to the Board for final consideration by that body, we do not fmd a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the neither the Board nor the Search Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
determination, please contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Angela Hilton 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 