===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 12, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 56 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Elizabeth Lydon, Esq. 
Special Town Counsel  
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
liz@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Lydon: 
 
This office received a complaint from Allen Waller on September 9, 2022,
1 alleging that 
the Marblehead Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 12, and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letter dated August 22.2 The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s 
May 18 meeting are insufficient where they do not capture public comment that took place 
during the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
response, the request for further review, and the notice and minutes for the Board’s May 18 
meeting. 
 
The relevant facts are not in dispute. The Board held a meeting on May 18 which 
included a public comment period at the end of the meeting. Members of the public spoke during 
the public comment period. The minutes of the May 18 meeting, which were approved by the 
Board on June 15, do not record the public comment period at all.   
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 There was some disagreement about when the complaint was filed with the Board and when the Board received the 
complaint. On July 12, the Complainant sent the complaint to graderm@marblehead.org, an email address for the 
Board’s chair that may be a valid address in the Town’s system but may not be monitored. Receipt of the 
Complainant’s email transmitting the complaint was neither acknowledged nor rejected as  undeliverable. Based on 
this, we consider the complaint to have been timely filed on July 12 but accept the Board’s assertion that the 
complaint was not received by the Board until August 9. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). One of the requirements of the Open Meeting Law that 
serves to eliminate such secrecy is the requirement that public bodies “create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The 
minutes must set forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, 
a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id.  
 
When reviewing meeting minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look 
for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
3 
By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy 
so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2018-151 (finding that minutes did not meet this 
standard where a 45-minute exchange between the public body and Mr. Waller was summarized 
in a single sentence); OML 2012-106. Although a transcript is not required and minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a summary of the 
discussions that took place during the meeting. See OML 2021-190; OML 2021-137 (minutes 
were insufficient where they captured questions asked during a public hearing but only specified 
that the questions were responded to, without summarizing the responses); OML 2019-136; 
OML 2013-16 (noting that minutes were insufficient where they did not summarize presentations 
made to the board of health or remarks made by city councilors and members of the public); 
OML 2011-55. Where a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only one to offer an 
argument for or against a proposal, that person and their comments should be identified in the 
minutes. See OML 2012-29; OML 2015-49. 
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the May 18 meeting are insufficient where they 
do not summarize the public comment period of the meeting. The Board asserts that it is not 
required to summarize the public comment period in the minutes because the public comments 
made during that period “were not related to any posted agenda item, nor any item for which the 
Board deliberated or took action.” The Board further asserts that the comments “did not prompt 
any discussion amongst the Board, therefore it was not possible to summarize a discussion that 
did not take place.” Finally, the Board asserts that “[t]he Open Meeting Law pertains to actions 
of a public body and not to individual members of the public.”  
 
In general, the provisions of the Open Meeting Law are construed “liberally to reflect 
their
 purpose of ‘eliminat[ing] much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and discussions 
on which public policy is based.’” McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641–42 (2008) 
(quoting Ghiglione, 376 Mass. at 72). The public comment period held during the Board’s May 
18 meeting was part of the May 18 meeting. As such, the Board was required to summarize what 
occurred during the public comment period. The Board notes in its response that the content of 
meeting minutes is left to the discretion of the public body so long as it substantially complies 
with the requirements that the minutes be accurate and provide a summary of the discussion of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
each subject. See OML  2011-55. Here, where the minutes of the May 18 meeting fail to capture 
the public comment period at all, we find that the minutes fail to comply with the requirements 
of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Next, we must determine whether the Board’s vi olation was, as the Complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirements or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Board against the violation found here, nor 
do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we 
decline to find that the violation was intentional.   
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient minutes for its May 18 meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board, within 30 
days of the date of this letter, to amend the minutes of its May 18 meeting to include the public 
comment period of that meeting.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Marblehead Select Board c/o Kyle Wiley, Administrative Aide, (via email: 
wileyk@marblehead.org) 
Robin A. Michaud, Town Clerk (via email: ) 
Allen Waller (via email: awaller@asperaassociates.com) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
