===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 29, 2015 
OML 2015- 143 
John Richard Hucksam, Jr., Esq. 
Deutsch Williams Brooks DeRensis 
& Holland, P.C. 
One Design Center Place, Suite 600 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complamts 
Dear Attorney Hucksam: 
This office received two complaints from Martha Eakin, Judith Day, and Jeff Buster 
collectively, both dated May 8,1 alleging that the Canton Conservation Commission (the 
Commission) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Commission on or about February 13 and March 11, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Commission, to the complaints by separate memoranda on May 
1} Both complaints concern a hearing regarding a storm water permit that was held during 
the Commission meetings on January 14; February 2; and February 11. The February 13 
complaint alleges that the Commission, "did not maintain a quorum of the same 
commissioners who heard and deliberated" on the same matter seven years prior to the 
hearing. The March 11 complaint alleges that, based on action taken by the Commission 
following this hearing, it appears the Commission had determined the outcome of the hearing 
prior to the meeting. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Commission's 
response to the complaint; and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices of and minutes from the Commission meetings held on January 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 We remind the Committee that, unless an extension of time has been requested, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney 
General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 
940 OMR 29.05(5), (6), 
===PAGE 2===
14; February 4; and February 11. Finally, in August we spoke individually by telephone with 
all of the Commissioners, along with the Conservation Agent. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission consists of seven members, thus four 
members constitute a quorum. The Commission held a hearing to discuss a storm water 
management permit for a particular property located on Ames Avenue in Canton. The 
Commission had previously, in 2007, issued an Order of Conditions relative to the same 
property. The storm water management permit was not part of this prior Order of Conditions. 
The hearing on the storm water permit began on January 14 and continued on February ll.3 
Leading up to the hearing, the Commission did not discuss the permit, either in person, by 
telephone or email, outside of a meeting. At the end of the hearing on February 11, the 
Commission approved the permit. The Commission that approved this permit consisted of 
different members than at the time the original Order of Conditions was issued in 2007. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass, 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through 
any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other 
procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
First, the Complainants allege that the Commission did not maintain a quorum of the 
same commissioners who heard and deliberated on the same matter seven years prior to the 
hearing. We find that this complaint does not allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law defines "quorum" as "a simple majority of the members of the public 
body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special law, executive order or other 
authorizing provision." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law does not govern whether particular 
individuals must comprise the quorum of the public body at any particular time. Because our 
review only concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review this 
complaint. See OML 2015-35. 
Second, the Complainants allege that the Commission discussed the storm water 
permit outside of meeting, rendering its decision a "predetermined sham." In interviews with 
3 The hearing was continued until February 4; however it was postponed to the next meeting on February 11 due 
to a lack of quorum. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
our office, the Commissioners denied that any such discussions took place. In the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, we credit their account and find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Jeff Buster 
Martha Eakin 
Judith Day 
Canton Conservation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 