===PAGE 1===
~
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108
MARTHA COAKLEY
ATTORNEY GENERAL
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
June 20,2011
OML 2011 - 27
Donna Thomas
Chair
Otis Board of Selectmen
One North Main Road
PO Box 237
Otis, MA 01253-0237
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Chair Thomas,
This office has received a complaint from Roberta Sarnacki, dated October 8, 2010,
alleging that the Otis Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 0.1. c.
30A, §§18-25, by holding a meeting with a quorum of the Board on August 9, 2010, without
posting notice of the meeting or opening the meeting to the public.
We find that the Otis Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting Law twice. First, a
quorum ofthe Board deliberated during a meeting on August 9, 2010, without fosting notice,
retaining minutes, or opening the meeting to the public, as required by the law. Second, a
quorum ofthe Board engaged in serial communications about a public matter within the Board's
jurisdiction sometime between August 9,2010 and August 19,2010. We have determined that
both violations were intentional.
At the outset, it is important to note that this decision is the result of an investigation
solely into whether the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, and has no bearing on either
Police Chief Roberta Sarnacki's job performance or the merits of the Board's actions and
deliberations, issues which underlie the complaint. We appreciate the cooperation of all parties
in this investigation.
i We acknowledge that the Otis Board of Selectmen is made up of three members. The complaint that is the subject
of this letter focuses on actioiis by two of the members, or a quorum of the Board. Accordingly, references to the
"Board" included in this detennination refer to the quorum of two members unless otherwise noted.
1
===PAGE 2===
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the October 8,2010 complaint filed with our
offce and the original complaint fied with the Board of Selectmen on August 27, 2010. We
also reviewed the response by the Board, dated September 29,2010. In addition, we reviewed a
number of materials requested by this office, including email correspondence between members
of the Board of Selectmen and the Town Administrator, minutes of the August 19, 2010 Board
meeting, and a letter with attachments provided by Selectwomen Donna Thomas and sent to our
office on November 18, 2010. Finally, we conducted phone interviews with Officer Dan Hamil,
Mr. Blake Middleton, Selectwoman Donna Thomas, Selectman Andrew Pyenson, and Otis
Police Chief Roberta Sarnacki
FACTS2
Blake Middleton is an Otis resident and was a police offcer with the Otis Police
Department. Mr. Middleton was determined to be ineligible to continue to serve as an Otis
police offcer on or about August 3, 2010 due to a lack of proper state certification. On August
9,2010, Mr. Middleton met with Otis Selectwomen Donna Thomas3. During their conversation,
Mr. Middleton expressed frustrations and concern about the Police Department and, specifically,
its Police Chief, Roberta Sarnacki. This conversation lasted about an hour and a half.
Later that day, Offcer Dan Hamil, a friend ofMr, Middleton, visited Middleton at his
home. According to Mr. Middleton and Offcer Hamil, they shared their frustrations about the
Police Department and, specifically, Chief Sarnacki. Mr. Middleton mentioned his conversation
with Selectwoman Thomas, which prompted Officer Hamil to respond that he, too, wanted to
discuss his concerns with the Board of Selectmen. At approximately 4:30 p.m., Mr. Middleton
contacted Selectwoman Thomas, stating that Offcer Hamil wished to speak with her about the
Police Chief but was reluctant to do so over the telephone. According to Selectwoman Thomas,
she felt the significance of the subject matter merited the presence of another Selectperson. In an
email sent from Selectwoman Thomas to Town Administrator Chris Morris on August 19,2010,
Selectwoman Thomas stated, "I asked that they tell (Selectman) Andy (Pyenson). I did not want
to be the only person that they told this info to." Selectwoman Thomas suggested that all three
of them - Selectwoman Thomas, Mr. Middleton and Officer Hamil- meet at the Otis Poultry
Farm. Andy Pyenson, who was the Board chairman at the time, owns the Otis Poultry Farm and
was working there on August 9, 2010. The patties agreed to meet at Otis Poultry Far.
At approximately 5:00 p.m., Offcer Hamll and Mr. Middleton at1'ived at the Otis Poultry
Farm, followed ShOltly by Selectwoman Thomas. Selectman Pyenson was already at the Otis
Poultry Farm. Selectwoman Thomas first approached Selectmen Pyenson privately to explain
that Offcer Hamil.and Mr. Middleton wanted to speak with him about the Police Department.
See Email from Selectwoman Donna Thomas to Town Administrator Christophel' Morris dated
September 29,2010 ("I asked (Middleton and Hamil) to please go to the poultry farm. I met
them there and while they shopped, I apprised Andy of the reason they were there."). Then Mr.
2 The facts are compiled primarily from phone interviews with Offcer Dan Hamil, Blake Middleton, Selectman
Andrew Pyenson, Selectwoman Donna Thomas, and Police Chief Roberta Sarnacki. Where the parties' accounts are
in general agreement, the account is stated as fact without citation. Where there is some disagreement in the
accounts as to what occurred, that disagreement is noted or the factual claim is attributed.
3 For the purpose of 
this determination, we wil refer to you in the third person.
2
===PAGE 3===
Middleton, Offcer Hamil, Selectwoman Thomas and Selectman Pyenson sat down at a table in
the public café section of the Poultry Farm.
While the accounts of the individuals interviewed vary, all who were present at the
meeting acknowledge that, at the outset, there was a remark made by Selectwoman Thomas to
the effect that they should not be talking 01' meeting at the Poultry Farm and that Selectwoman
Thomas left at some point early in the meeting. There was some disagreement about what
exactly Selectwoman Thomas said and precisely when she left. According to Mr. Middleton,
Se1ectwoman Thomas said something like "I can't be here, I've got to go." According to Officer
Hamil, Selectwoman Thomas was present as he explained some of his concerns about
Depaiiment and the chief, and that both she and Selectman Pyenson encouraged him to attend a
meeting of the Selectmen where he could express his concerns formally. Officer Hamil stated
that very shortly after the conversation began, Selectwoman Thomas left.
Selectwoman Thomas's statements have shifted somewhat over time. For example, in an
email sent to Mr. Morris on August 19th, Selectwoman Thomas states, "(iJt was a difficult call
and I did everything that I could to extract myself from them, but also there was a need for their
stories to be told in a safe place." But we note that in subsequently published press reports,
Selectwoman Thomas is quoted as stating that the meeting was not planned and that she went to
the Otis Poultry Farm to purchase a pie. See Derek Gentile, Berkshire Record, "Selectmen Face
Inquiry," lb/5/2010; David Scribner, Berkshire Record, "Embattled Otis Police Chief Weighs
Run for Selectmen," i 0/8(20 i O. In a November 18, 2010 letter to our offce, Selectwoman
Thomas asseiied that she "was only at the poultry farm for a few minutes," and that she
purchased a strawberry rhubarb pie and left. Selectwoman Thomas also acknowledged during
the interview with this office that the situation made her uncomfOliable and she decided to leave.
. After Selectwoman Thomas left the meeting, the conversation continued between
Selectman Pyenson, Mr. Middleton, and Offcer Hamil. Offcer Hamil apparently did most of
the speaking and Selectmen Pyenson primarily listened. There did not seem to be much back
and forth, and Selectmen Pyenson's only reaction was to encourage Offcer Hamil to speak at a
public meeting of the Selectmen. Officer Hamil felt that while he had concerns about the Police
Depaiiment, he did not want to bring them up in a public forum, but would rather work directly
with the Police Chief. It is not clear whether he expressed that view at the meeting on August 9,
2010 at the Poultry Farm. The entire meeting lasted around ten to fifteen minutes. All the
parties who were present reported that no decisions were discussed or resolutions made as to
how to proceed with the information shared by Officer Hamil and Mr. Middleton.
Following the meeting at the Otis Poultry Farm, Selectman Pyenson called Selectwoman
Thomas to schedule a hearing to consider disciplining Chief Sarnacki On August 11, 2010,
Town Administrator Christopher Morris sent Chief Sarnacki an email informing her that the
Board would hold an executive session on August 17, 2010 "to discuss taking disciplinary action
against you." After Chief Sarnacki expressed surprise at this email to Officer Hamil, Offcer
Hamil recounted to Chief Sarnacki what had occurred at the August 9, 2010 meeting. Chief
Sarnacki requested that the disciplinary meeting be open to the public, and the meeting was then
held on August 19, 2010. At the August 19,20.10 Board meeting, the Board acknowledged the
occun-ence of the August 9,2010 meeting at the Otis Poultry Farm, which had already been
reported in the local newspaper. No disciplinar action was taken by the Board against Chief
3
===PAGE 4===
Sarnacki during the August 19th open meeting.
There are a total of three members of the Otis Board of Selectmen. The third selectman,
Donald Hawley, was not invited and did not paiiicipate in the meeting at the Otis Poultry Farm,
The complaint makes additional allegations that were not borne out by interviews with
the parties. For example, the complaint states that Officer Hamil and Mr. Middleton "were
given false information that (Chief Sarnacki) has been fired from previous jobs, and that (she)
was solely responsible for the recent budget cuts, where part-time officers, themselves included,
were cut back to 19 hours." It does not appear from the interviews that their August 9, 2010
conversation touched upon those subjects, The complaint further alleges the parties agreed that
"if any of them were asked why they were all in the same locations, the 'story' was for them to
say that Donna Thomas had stopped in for a pie, that Middleton and Hamil had stopped in for
some water, and that Pyensonjust happened to be working there." However, it does not appear
from the interviews that this agreement was made.
The Board members deny that any further discussion occurred outside of an open
meeting. However, emails reviewed by this office suggest otherwise. Specifically, a series of
emails exchanged on August 18,2010 between Selectwoman Thomas, Town Administrator
Christopher MOn'is and the Board's secretary suggests at least some contact between Board
members regarding the job performance and discipline of Chief Sarnacki and the manner in
which the Board meeting scheduled for August 19,2010 would be conducted. On Wednesday
August 18, 2010, Selectwoman Thomas emailed Town Administrator Christopher Morris and
wrote, "Andy asked me to email you. Could you please (discreetly) find out if Andy as the Chair
of the BOS, (could) be appointed the chief of police for a limited time~ . .Andy is also worried
about people speaking at the meeting."
A second email from the Board's secretary to Selectman Thomas on the same day states,
"Andy had called earlier.,. Andy requested Jeremia get here early, Chris recommended only
Andy speak with Jeremia to avoid appearances of a meeting prior to 7pm, and the topic ofthè
Select Board administrating (sic) the Police Dept. is one of the issues Andy has already requested
of Jeremia," "Jeremia" is Town Counsel Jeremia Pollard. Selectman Thomas responded to this
email, stating: "Thanks for the info. I wil actually print and drop it off for Andy on my way
home. I'm all for just Andy speaking to Jeremiah. Yes, C1u'is is right to avoid any bad
appearances. "
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 0.1. c.
30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any
medium, including electronic mail, between 01' among a quorum of a public body on any public
business within its jurisdiction." Id.
4
===PAGE 5===
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law twice: first by meeting as a quorum on
August 9, 2010 with Officer Hamil and Mr. Middleton: and second, by engaging in serial
discussions between August 9, 2010 and August 19,2010. Both violations were intentionaL.
A. First Violation: Meeting Outside of a Posted, Open Session on August 9, 2010
The Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Board
met with two individuals on August 9, 2010 for the purpose of soliciting information regarding
the Police Department and the Police Chief-a matter of public business under the Boardls
jurisdiction. Whether the meeting was requested by Officer Hamil and Mr. Middleton, and
whether the interaction was brief, ultimately makes little difference. There was a meeting among
a quorum of the Board of Selectmen to discuss the management and functioning of the Police
Department, a matter of public business within the Board's jurisdiction. The violation is plain.
Moreover, the violation did not end with the meeting at the Poultiy Farm. The Board's
own response supports the conclusion that additional deliberation occurred after that meeting.
By the Board's own admission, "(l)ater that evening, Selectman Pyenson called Selectman
Hawley and Selectwoman Thomas to discuss their availabilty for a disciplinary hearing to
discuss the. . . allegations with Chief Sarnacki." While it is not clear from the Board's response
whether those conversations occuned at the same time, for instance, via a conference call or,
more likely, were individual phone calls, there is ultimately little difference. The topic ofthe
conversation - allegations against Chief Sarnacki and the possibilty of a disciplinary hearing-
were brand new to the Board. A call about scheduling a disciplinary hearing on a matter that
was previously not before the Board would arguably lead to questions about the matter by a
reasonable Board member. Accordingly, it does not strain logic to infer that discussions and,
therefore, deliberations, occun'ed on the night of August 9, 2010 following the meeting at the
Poultry Farm. Where, as here, there is evidence that a quorum of the Board of Selectmen
received and exchanged information in a serial fashion, a violation may be found. See McCrea
v. Flaherty, 71 Mass.App.Ct. 637,641,648-49 (2008) (holding that private serial
communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent
the intent of the law).
The evidence also demonstrates that the Board's violation of the Open Meeting Law was
intentionaL. The Selectmen acknowledged, both at the time of the meeting and shoiily thereafter,
that it was inappropriate. Selectwoman Thomas openly stated something like, "I can't be here,
I've got to go," after sitting down with Selectman Pyenson, Mr. Middleton and Offcer Hamil at
the Poultry Farm. Furthermore, during the August 19,2010 Board meeting Selectwoman
Thomas acknowledged that "I told (Middleton and Hamil) that I couldn't be there." When
asked during the meeting by counsel for the complainant if she had told the other attendees the
meeting was "ilegal," Selectwoman Thomas responded, "No. I don't remember ifI used that
word, but I told them I could not stay there." These comments indicate, at a minimum, that
Selectwoman Thomas was aware that the meeting could be perceived as violating the Open
Meeting Law. They also indicate that she informed Selectman Pyenson that she thought the
meeting was inappropriate, putting him on notice that continued deliberation either at the Poultry
Farm or among Board members afterward violated the Open Meeting Law.
5
===PAGE 6===
Ultimately, the evidence supports a conclusion that Selectwoman Thomas and Selectman
Pyenson deliberated on a matter of public business before the Board, namely, the management of
the Police Depaitment and the possible discipline of its Chief. Whether the deliberation occun'ed
at the Otis Poultry Farm on the afternoon of August 9, 2010 or later that night during phone
conversations between the full Board, the outcome is the same: the Board deliberated outside of
a posted meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
B. Second Violation: Deliberations Among a Quourm of the Board Leading up to the
August 19,2010 Board Meeting
A second violation of the Open Meeting Law occurred at some point between the August
9,2010 meeting at the Otis Poultry Farm and the properly posted meeting of the Board on
August 19,2010. Again at issue is the matter of serial communications between the Board
regarding the management of the Police,Department.
Of particular concern are emails which suggest there had been some level of discussion
between Selectwoman Thomas and Selectman Pyenson regarding the Police Chief s job
performance and how to proceed with disciplining or removing the Chief. In our opinion, one
August 18,2010 email from Selectwoman Thomas is particularly disconcerting. In that email,
she writes to Town Administrator Christopher Morris, "Andy (pyenson) asked me to email you.
Could you please (discreetly) find out if Andy as the Chair of the BOS, be appointed the chief of
police for a limited time.. . Andy is also worried about people speaking at the meeting." This
email indicates that, at a minimum, a discussion occurred between a quorum of the Board about
the management of the Police Deparment. The management of the Police Dcpartment is a
matter of public business within the jurisdiction ofthe Board. Accordingly, any deliberation
about this matter should occur'in an adequately posted open meeting or a properly convened
executive session where a record of the discussions may be made.
While both Selectwoman Thomas and Selectman Pyenson acknowledged in interviews
that they may have briefly brought this question up in order to seek advice of counsel and the
consequences of a disciplinary action against Chief Sarnacki, the reason it was raised does not
matter. The fact that it was raised, and in the context of email, does. Our offce does not quarrel
with the right of the Board to consult with counseL. It is established that a public body may meet
to communicate with counseL. See District Attorney for Plymouth District v. Board of Selectmen
of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629,633 (Mass. 1985). However, the communication with
counsel by a quorum of a Board may occur only during a properly posted open meeting 01' during
an executive session-and only for one ofthe enumerated purposes for executive session. Id.
This email suggests some further discussion among a quorum of the Board, and an attempt to
consider policy options before a public meeting was held in violation of the Open Mceting Law.
"Governmental bodies may not circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by
conducting deliberations via private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the
telephone, or in any other form." District Attorney for the Northern District v. School
Committee of Wayland, 451, Mass, 561, 570-571 (2009),
6
===PAGE 7===
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on two occasions by conducting
deliberations outside of an appropriately posted meeting. Because we believe this violation was
intentional, we refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3), and recommend
that the Board be assessed a fine of$l,OOO pursuant to G.1. c. 30A, § 23(c) ("Upon the finding
of a violation, the attorney general may issue an order to ... impose a civil penalty upon the
public body of not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation").4 We invite counsel for the
Board to contact this office to discuss the hearing process. We also order the Board to take the
following remedial actions:
1. Immediate and futue compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.1. c. 30A, §§ 18-25;
and
2. Attendance at a training on the Open Meeting Law and certification to this offce that
every member of the Board has attended that training. The trainings are to be
conducted by an attorney or organization familar with the requirements of the Law
and approved by this Offce. This training is ordered in addition to any future
remedial actions ordered as the result of a hearing.
If you have any questions regarding this determination, please do not hesitate to contact
me at the number below.
Sincerely,
gl~/ r",~ßØ~
Jonathan Sclarsic
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
Ph: 617-963-2045 .
cc: Roberta Sarnacki
4 In a recent decision, the Hampshire Superior COUlt fined the South Hadley School Committee $5,000 for
intentional violations ofthe Open Meeting Law. Gelinas Y. Town of South Hadley, C.A No. 10-129, (Mass.
Superior Court, fied May 23, 2011).
7