===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 1, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 35 
 
 
Thomas J. Harrington, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Harrington:                                                                                                                                                                          
 
This office received a complaint from Ann-Mara Lanza on November 8, 2021, alleging 
that the Wellesley Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about September 30, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated October 21.  The complaint alleges that the 
Board posted an insufficiently specific notice for its September 1 meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board meeting held on September 1.  Finally, we 
communicated with the complainant on November 22.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  Future Management Systems provides services to public 
and private organizations that include strategic planning, organizational assessments, leadership 
coaching, and team building.  The Town of Wellesley, including the Board, has been working 
with Future Management Systems for approximately ten years to provide training in 
interpersonal communication skills development, team building, and goal setting to help public 
bodies function more efficiently and effectively.  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On August 26, Board Chair Thomas Ulfelder sent an email to the entire Board 
summarizing the topics that the Board anticipated discussing at its retreat meeting scheduled for 
September 1.  Specifically, the email stated that the Board would continue to work with Future 
Management Systems to revise board policy to clarify and improve current operations, roles, and 
conduct; manage more efficient meetings; create a process for introducing new members to the 
work of the Board; and ensure that communications between members and staff are in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
On August 30 at 8:37 A.M., the Board posted notice for a retreat meeting to be held on 
September 1 at 10:00 A.M.  The notice listed three topics: “Call to Order – Open Session,” 
“Citizen Speak,” and “Future Management Systems Training.”  During an August 31 meeting, 
the complainant, who is a member of the Board, raised concerns about the sufficiency of the 
“Future Management Systems Training” topic listed on the September 1 notice and suggested 
that additional information should be included.  The Board did not make any revisions to the 
notice. 
   
The September 1 meeting was held as planned.  For the entirety of the nearly two-hour 
meeting, Lyle Kirtman, Chief Executive Officer of Future Management Systems, led the Board 
in discussions about recognizing different working styles of members, setting goals and best 
ways to achieve them, improving communication among members, maintaining civility, 
decorum and professionalism among members, and structuring productive meetings.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.2   
 
The complaint alleges that the topic “Future Management Systems Training” on the 
September 1 meeting notice lacked sufficient specificity.  We agree and conclude that, although 
the topic correctly identified general details about the Board’s anticipated discussion, including 
the name of the company conducting the training, it should have also included details about the 
specific nature of the anticipated discussion (i.e., training on interpersonal communications, team 
building, and goal setting).  The Board need not list each and every detail about a topic in order 
to comply with the law’s requirements.  See OML 2014-122.  However, in this instance, even a 
member of the public who was familiar with the company would not understand the specific 
nature of the anticipated discussion from reading the topic as listed on the notice.  See OML 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2018-60. 2018-38.  Accordingly, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide 
the public with a sufficient understanding of the anticipated discussion.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient detail in its September 1 meeting notice.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  As the Board has approved and posted detailed 
minutes of this meeting, and did not take any official action or votes, we order no further 
remedial action.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Ann-Mara Lanza – By email only:  
 Wellesley Select Board – By email only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
