===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
February 13, 2020 
OML 2020 - 22
Kathryn Fallon, Esq.
Malden City Solicitor 
City of Malden Legal Department 
110 Pleasant Street, 3rd Floor 
Malden, MA 02148
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Solicitor Fallon:
This office received a complaint from Brian DeLacey, on September 11, 2019, alleging 
that the Malden Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
July 11 and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated July 30.1 In his complaint, 
Mr. DeLacey alleges that the Committee deliberated via email, when a June 19 email which 
included the opinions of the Chair could have been viewed by all the Committee members 
through a shared email account.2
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. The law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, 
scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member 
is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also OML 2019-144; OML 2018-6.3 For the purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id.
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2019.
2 We decline to review any additional allegations made in the request for further review. Our office does not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies and will address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint in order to 
give public bodies a chance to address those allegations. See OML Declination 4-22-15; OML Declination 8-25- 
2015; OML 2013-118; OML 2013-60.
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.

===PAGE 2===
Here, the Committee is a nine-member public body. The Committee has its own email 
account for the purposes of receiving applications and questions from the public and 
coordinating scheduling for Committee meetings. As part of our investigation, the Town’s IT 
Department has confirmed that only one set of login credentials was ever created for the 
“maldencpc@cityofmalden.org” email address. At the time of the June 19 email, only the 
Committee Chair and an administrative staff member checked the account regularly.4 If an 
administrative question was asked via the Committee’s email account, the staff person would 
answer it. However, more substantive questions were answered by the Chair, frequently after 
bringing such questions to the next meeting of the Committee.
In the case of the June 19 email, the Chair replied to an email from Mr. DeLacey and 
copied several Malden City Councilors, as Mr. DeLacey’s question also pertained to actions of 
the City Council. The Chair did not copy any of her fellow Committee members. The complaint 
alleges that other members of the Committee saw the Chair’s reply because they had access to 
the Committee’s email account. A public body may not engage in serial deliberation, whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a matter 
within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 648-49 
(2008); OML 2014-93. Following our investigation, we conclude that no deliberation via email 
took place. We found no evidence that other members of the public body ever logged in or even 
obtained the login credentials for the shared account. In fact, the evidence is to the contrary, that 
only the Chair and administrative staff member had access. Therefore, we find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brian DeLacey
Malden Community Preservation Committee
4 The administrative staff person is no longer working for the Committee.
2

===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
