===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 56 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Katherine Feodoroff 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
kate@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
 
This office received a complaint from Allison Sloan, member of the Middleton Flint 
Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”), on September 14, 2023,
1 alleging that the Board—and 
specifically Board members Donna Bambury, Erin Bennett, and Susan Piccole— violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
or about July 7, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated August 9. The complaint alleges that the three named Board members 
improperly deliberated outside of a meeting regarding the election of a chair.
2,3 
 
Following our review, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, the request for further review and related attachments, video recordings of the 
Board’s June 12 and August 8 meetings, and draft and final versions of the minutes for the 
Board’s June 12 meeting. Finally, we communicated with counsel for the Board via email.
4 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint makes various assertions about how the vote for chair occurred during the Board’s June 12 meeting 
and alleges that the Open Meeting Law violation occurred on June 12; however, we understand the mention of 
events of the June 12 meeting to be provided as evidence in support of the  allegation that improper deliberation 
occurred prior to the June 12 meeting.  
3 To the extent Ms. Sloan intended to raise additional allegations in her request for further review, we decline to 
review such allegations as they were not first raised in an original complaint filed with the Board. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3); OML 2023-38. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
delib
erations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.” Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. 
 
A public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a quorum 
communi
cates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular subject 
matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2015-3; OML 2012-84; OML 2011-27; 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that private serial communications 
violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the 
law).5 The leadership of a public body is a matter within that public body’s jurisdiction and 
discussions of such are precisely the type of deliberation that the Open Meeting Law requires be 
conducted in an open and accessible manner. See OML 2018-6; OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108. 
 
Here, the Board is a five-me
 mber public body; therefore, three members constitute a 
quorum. The complaint alleges that Ms. Bambury, Ms. Bennett, and Ms. Piccole deliberated, 
either directly or via serial communication, outside of a meeting to decide how to vote in the 
upcoming election for chair. In support of this allegation, Ms. Sloan cites to various events she 
alleges took place during the Board’s June 12 meeting, and specifically during the vote for chair. 
Ms. Sloan also notes that our office previously found that Ms. Bambury improperly deliberated 
via email regarding the election of a chair. See OML 2023-38.  
 
After review of the information provided by Ms. Sloan, we find no evidence that supports 
an in
ference that Ms. Bambury, Ms. Bennett, and Ms. Piccole deliberated outside of a properly 
posted meeting regarding the election of the chair. Furthermore, the Board asserts in its response 
that Ms. Bambury, Ms. Bennett, and Ms. Piccole did not deliberate outside of a meeting 
regarding election of the chair. Additionally, Ms. Bambury, Ms. Bennett, and Ms. Piccole have 
each confirmed that they did not communicate with each other, either directly or serially, through 
any means, including in writing or verbally, regarding the election of a chair. In the absence of 
sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s assertions. See OML 2021-193; 
OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122. Therefore, we do not find a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board of with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Donna Bambury, Chair, Middleton Flint Library Board of Trustees
(via email:
Allıson Sloan (via email:
Middleton Town Clerk (via email: ilene. twiss@middletonma.gov)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.