===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
May 4, 2015 
OML 2015-61 
John W. Grande 
Town Administrator 
Box 1239 
51 Spring Street 
Vineyard Haven, MA 02568 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Grande: 
This office received two complaints from Lynn Fraker alleging that the Tisbury Harbor 
Management Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The first complaint, filed with our office on January 12, 2015, alleges that the minutes of the 
Committee's October 23, 2014 meeting are inaccurate and incomplete. This complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on December 12, 2014. The Committee responded by letter 
dated February 3, 2015. The second complaint, filed with our office on March 9, 2015, alleges 
that the minutes of the Committee's December 17, 2014 meeting are inaccurate. This complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on February 3, 2015. The Committee responded by 
letter dated March 6, 2015, following an extension of time granted by our office.1 
Following our review, we find that while the minutes at issue are sufficiently accurate to 
comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, the October 23, 2014 meeting minutes are 
incomplete because they fail to record a discussion that occurred at the end of the meeting. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the minutes and audio recordings of the Committee's 
October 23 and December 17, 2014 open meetings. 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www. mass, gov/ago 
1 Unless an extension of time has been requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open 
Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney 
General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). We remind the 
Committee of this requirement (though its adherence to the proper procedure with respect to the second complaint 
suggests that it now understands its obligations). 
A m SEIU 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The October 23. 2014 Meeting 
The Committee met on October 23, 2014. During the meeting, Ms. Fraker, who is not a 
member of the Committee, raised an issue regarding a prohibition on mooring in eelgrass. The 
Committee responded to her comment and sought to move on. Ms. Fraker tried to continue the 
discussion, but the Committee decided to move on to other topics. The minutes reflect the 
discussion as follows: 
In response to a question from the audience, Jim Lobdell added that "if we are truly 
concerned about the 'grass' and we don't want to anchor then what we should be doing in 
these areas where there are mooring or whatever that is tearing out more grass which is 
hard to replace that that is the place where you would consider using conservation 
moorings if that is what the committee decides that's what they should recommend." 
Later in the meeting, the Committee discussed concerns about the Lake Street Landing 
dock, which led to a discussion about both the structural integrity of the dock and the job 
performance of the Harbor Master. Ms. Fraker raised concerns about the Harbor Master and his 
staff and a perceived lack of enforcement of regulations. The minutes reflect the discussion as 
follows: 
Lake Street Landing docking problems: Jim Lobdell is concerned about the structural 
integrity of the Lake street dock as well as other docks. [Harbor Master] Jay Wilbur 
[does] not see a problem at the Lake Street dock. One person from the audience had 
serious objections. The committee heard an extensive narration on the problems at Lake 
Street from this person2 which blamed to a large extent the Town Harbor Master. The 
narration was quite compelling. This discussion extended the meeting for 20 minutes and 
it was obviously frustrating to every one present. The committee is at a loss to handle 
these ongoing and recurrent problems associated with the Lake Street Dock. The 
committee is in an advisor position to the BOS. Enforcement issues need to be handled 
through the Harbor Masters office, the Town Administrator and the Board of Selectmen. 
Nat Benjamin said that "the rules are in place, it is clearly a problem of personalities and 
individuals. I think that you need a mediator, a facilitator and site around a table with 
everyone there and work it out because this is clearly a personality thing." 
Following this discussion, the Committee discussed a regulation and then entertained new 
business, including discussion of a community preservation request to improve upon a town pier. 
This discussion is not recorded in the minutes. The Committee approved the minutes of this 
meeting on November 19, 2014. 
The December 17. 2014 Meeting 
During the Committee's December 17, 2014 meeting, the Board heard a presentation 
from Rich Kamey from the Martha's Vineyard Shellfish Group, who discussed the state of 
2 We note that it may be helpful to the reader for the Committee to identify the speaker in such circumstances. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
eelgrass in the local waters. The minutes identify Mr. Kamey as the chief scientist from the 
Martha's Vineyard Shellfish Group. Mr. Kamey discussed eelgrass with the Committee for 
about an hour. Following the discussion, the Committee voted to recommend prohibiting 
anchoring in eelgrass areas. The minutes cover the major points of the discussion, including the 
importance of eelgrass, the environmental impact on eelgrass, and the impact of eelgrass on 
water quality. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While minutes must include a summary of the 
discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include 
every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.3 When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. For substantial compliance, minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See id 
1. The Minutes of the Committee's October 23, 2014 Meeting are Accurate, but are 
Insufficient, because they Fail to Record a Discussion that Occurred. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's October 23, 2014 meeting minutes are 
deficient because the Committee did not faithfully and accurately summarize the discussion 
regarding eelgrass, the Lake Street Landing dock, and the final discussion of new business. On 
the first two topics, the Committee provided an adequate summary of its discussions. The 
minutes of the meeting do not include every detail of the Committee's discussion. However, as 
stated above, minutes do not need to be transcript of the meeting, and the minutes do not need to 
include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. Having 
reviewed an audio recording of the meeting, we believe that a person who did not attend the 
meeting could review the minutes and generally understand the Committee's discussions. 
Although the minutes are accurate, we find they are nevertheless insufficient to comply 
with the Open Meeting Law's requirements. The minutes include no summary of the discussion 
that occurred at the end of the meeting, regarding a regulation and community preservation 
request to improve upon a town pier. Because this entire area of discussion was omitted from 
the minutes, we find that they do not comply with the Open Meeting Law. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2. The Minutes of the Committee's December 17, 2014 Meeting Substantially Comply with 
the Law's Accuracy Requirement. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's December 17, 2014 meeting minutes are 
inaccurate because they support the personal opinion of the person who drafted the minutes. 
Whether or not that is true, the minutes provide a summary of the presentation and discussion 
that occurred on that date, and are sufficiently detailed so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could review the minutes and generally understand the discussion that 
occurred. We therefore find that the Committee has complied with the Open Meeting Law's 
accuracy requirement. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we find that while the minutes at issue are sufficiently 
accurate to comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements, the October 23, 2014 meeting 
minutes are incomplete because they fail to record a discussion that occurred at the end of the 
meeting. We order the Committee to amend its October 23, 2014 meeting minutes to include a 
summary of the discussion of new business, including discussion of a regulation and a 
community preservation request. The Committee must take this action within thirty (30) days 
receipt of this letter. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Committee. Please feel 
free to contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
^ Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tisbury Harbor Management Committee 
Lynne Fraker 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 