===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
December 13, 2021 
OML 2021 – 188 
VIA EMAIL 
Marc Terry, Esq.  
Mirick, O’Connell, DeMallie & Lougee, LLP 
1800 West Park Drive, Suite 400 
Westborough, MA 01581-3926 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
This office received a complaint from Russell Williston on June 24, 2021, alleging that 
the Lancaster Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 4, and the Board responded by
letter dated June 1.1, 2 In his complaint, Mr. Williston alleges that the Board 1) should have
released its January 4 and January 14 executive session meeting minutes to the public at a May 3
meeting, 2) did not timely respond to Mr. Williston’s request for copies of the meeting minutes
of January 4 and January 14 executive sessions, 3) posted an insufficiently specific notice for an
April 30 meeting, and 4) failed to timely approve meeting minutes.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in some of 
the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed in 
camera the minutes of the executive sessions that took place on January 4 and January 14. 
Finally, we communicated by email with the Attorney Marc Terry on several occasions in July, 
November and December of 2021.3  
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 We remind the Board of its obligation to meet to review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
1. The Board must release its January 4 and January 14 executive session meeting minutes 
to the public, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. 
 There are ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive, or closed, session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the 
reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought 
against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 
(a)(1); see also OML 2020-76.4 Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain 
rights, including the right to individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on 
his or her behalf, to have counsel present, and to record the executive session. Id. When a public 
body convenes an executive session under Purpose 1, the purpose for the session generally 
concludes when the public body resolves the matter with the person who is the subject of the 
executive session. See OML 2020-120; OML 2017-143. 
 Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any 
documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege 
or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988); OML 2014-138. 
 Our jurisdiction in the course of the Open Meeting Law complaint process is to review 
for compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we review whether a public body may 
lawfully withhold executive session meeting minutes based on a claim that the lawful purpose 
for the executive session is ongoing. If the public body acknowledges, or we find, that the 
purpose for the executive session has expired, the public body still may cite to a Public Records 
Law exemption or the attorney-client privilege as a reason for continuing to withhold executive 
session minutes or portions of those minutes. Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim that 
minutes are exempt from disclosure pursuant to an exemption in the Public Records Law should 
be directed to the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public Records 
Division. See OML 2020-120.  
 Here, the Board’s counsel informs us that the Board’s investigation into a complaint 
made against the Town Administrator has concluded and that the Board will not be taking any 
further action in response to the complaint. We therefore find that the original purpose for the 
executive sessions that took place on January 4 and January 14 have concluded and the minutes 
of both executive sessions can no longer be withheld from the public under the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2021-143 (finding that the purpose for an executive session had concluded when 
the public body issued a statement explaining that it had taken all the action it was authorized to 
take in response to a complaint). We therefore order the Board to release the January 4 and 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
January 14 executive session minutes, and any documents or exhibits used during the executive 
sessions, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law permits 
the Board to withhold them from disclosure, in whole or in part. 
2. The Board responded in a timely manner to both Mr. Williston’s March 31 and May 3 
requests for copies of the meeting minutes of the January 4 and January 14 executive 
sessions.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved 
or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(c). Handwritten notes, depending on the condition they are in, may be considered a 
draft of the minutes that need to be produced, and “materials used in the preparation of minutes” 
are public records. See OML 2018-117; OML 2013-131; OML 2013-64; OML 2013-31. In the 
case of executive session minutes, if the public body has determined, prior to the request, that the 
requested executive session minutes may be released, it should respond to the requestor directly, 
notifying him or her whether those minutes are available. See OML 2013-105; OML 2013-99. If 
the body previously determined that executive session minutes should remain confidential 
because publication would defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, it should respond 
by stating the reason why the minutes continue to be withheld. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). 
 The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to Mr. Williston’s 
March 31 and May 3 requests for the January 4 and January 14 executive session meeting 
minutes. A public body is only required to produce any meeting minutes which existed at the 
time of a request, whether in draft or approved form. However, a public body is not required to 
produce meeting minutes in response to a request that do not already exist. See OML 2020-151. 
If minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is still required to respond to 
the request within 10 calendar days with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist 
in either approved or draft form. See OML 2021-46. 
 In response to the March 31 request, the Board’s Executive Assistant replied on the same 
day, stating “The Board of Selectmen executive session minutes for January 4 and January 14 
have not been reviewed by the Selectmen or approved at this time.” Counsel informs us that the 
minutes of the January 4 and 14 executive session already existed in draft form. However, the 
minutes had not been reviewed by the Board to determine whether release to the public was 
required. Because the Board responded on the same day and described the status of the  
executive session minutes, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
response to Mr. Williston’s May 3 request, we also find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, 
as the Board’s Executive Assistant responded to Mr. Williston on the same day, explaining that 
the Board had reviewed the requested minutes on April 30 and concluded that continued non-
disclosure was warranted under both the Open Meeting Law and Public Records Law.  
3. The Board posted an insufficiently specific notice for an April 30 meeting. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance of a meeting that contains the date, time and place of such meeting and “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only 
notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 One appropriate purpose for an executive session is “to comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(7) (“Purpose 7”). A public body entering executive session under Purpose 7 must identify 
the specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations confidential unless doing 
so would compromise the purpose for the closed-door session. See OML 2015-55. 
 Mr. Williston alleges that the Board failed to properly identify the executive session topic 
on its April 30 meeting notice. We agree. The April 30 notice item stated, “Executive Session 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §21 (a)(7) – to comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirements and may or may not reconvene in open session.” We 
understand that the Board intended to review prior executive session meeting minutes during this 
executive session. Although this item on the meeting notice cited G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) 
(“Purpose 7”), it did not identify the specific law that required or authorized confidential 
deliberations or the nature of the anticipated discussion—i.e., review of executive session 
meeting minutes—nor did it identify the dates of the meeting minutes the Board planned to 
review. These additional details could have been included on the meeting notice without 
compromising the purpose of the executive session. See OML 2019-55. Therefore, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently specific notice for its 
April 30 meeting.  
4. The Board failed to timely approve numerous sets of meeting minutes. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next 
three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can 
show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 29.11; OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we 
recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2021-155. 
 Here, the Board concedes that the Board did not approve minutes for the Board’s special 
meetings of January 4 and 14, February 17, and March 15 or the Board’s executive sessions held 
on January 4 and 14, February 17, and March 15 within the later of the next three meetings or 30 
days. In addition, as of December 2, the March 24 meeting minutes still had not been approved. 
We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve 
numerous sets of executive session minutes.   
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to release executive session minutes after the lawful purpose for the executive session had 
concluded, posting an insufficiently specific meeting notice, and failing to timely approve 
meeting minutes. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 We order the Board, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to release the January 4 and 
January 14 executive session minutes, and any documents or exhibits used during the executive 
sessions, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law permits 
the Board to withhold the minutes, either in whole or in part. In addition, we order the Board to 
approve minutes of the March 24 meeting within 30 days of receipt of this letter, if it has not 
already done so.  
 Finally, in light of the variety of Open Meeting Law violations found here, we order all 
members of the Board to attend an Open Meeting Law webinar training provided by our office 
within ninety (90) days of the Board’s receipt of this letter.5 We also order the Board to certify 
to our office that each Board member has completed the webinar training within ninety-five (95) 
days of the Board’s receipt of this letter.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Russell Williston (via e-mail: ) 
 Lancaster Select Board c/o Chair Jason Allison (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
5 Information about our webinars can be found can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-trainings 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 