===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 19, 2018
OML 2018-157
Carolyn Murphy, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Murphy:
This office received a complaint from George Harris on June 28, 2018, alleging that 
the Wayland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 8, 2018, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated May 18, 2018. In his 
complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the minutes of the Board’s March 26, 2018 meeting lack 
sufficient detail.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include in its meeting minutes sufficient detail and reference to certain documents 
used during the meeting. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the notice, minutes and video recording of the Board’s March 26, 
2018 meeting minutes, as well as the notice, minutes and video-recording of the Board’s May 
23, 2018 meeting.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On March 26, 2018, the Board held a hearing on the 
town meeting warrant articles that lasted approximately 75 minutes. During the hearing, the 
Board reviewed and received public comment on many of the articles. The original meeting 
minutes, approved on April 23, 2018, summarized the hearing in three sentences, stating that 
the Board and the Town Moderator “led the attendees through a page by page review of the 
warrant and motions for Annual Town Meeting. Residents made suggestions and asked
1 The video-recording is available at www.waycam.tv/govemment-on-demand.

===PAGE 2===
questions on the Warrant and articles.” No reference to the warrant or the associated draft 
motions reviewed by the Board during the meeting was included in the list of documents 
itemized in the minutes.
In response to the filing of this complaint, the Board amended the minutes on May 26, 
2018 to include the actual comments made about each warrant article. The Board also added 
to its minutes the 2018 Annual Town Meeting Warrant and the motions for warrant articles to 
its list of documents used by the Board during that meeting.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with 
the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.2 By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106.
The complainant alleges that the Board’s March 26, 2018 meeting minutes lacked 
sufficient detail and failed to list the warrant and the associated motions. We agree. While 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, 
and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012- 
29; OML 2011-55. The Board’s minutes indeed lacked sufficient detail concerning its 75- 
minute hearing on the annual town meeting warrant articles. Instead of offering a summary of 
each warrant article reviewed, the original minutes condensed the 75-minute hearing into 
three sentences, which offered the public no information about the content of the discussion. 
This lack of detail violated the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to include in its list of documents the warrant and associated draft 
motions reviewed during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2017-200. We 
commend the Board for its efforts to revise the minutes in response to this complaint. The 
revised minutes include sufficient detail to understand the nature of the discussions and 
reference both the warrant and the motions in its list of documents used by the Board during 
the meeting. As revised, the minutes comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to include in its March 26, 2018 meeting minutes sufficient detail and certain
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
documents used during the meeting. We order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
fykflb/l-—
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: George Harris, Esq.
Wayland Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
