===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 20, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 179 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lisa L. Mead, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
lisa@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
 
This office received a complaint from Tom Duggan of Valley Patriots Newspaper on 
April 16, 2024,
1 alleging that the Haverhill School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about March 26, 2024, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter 
dated April 12. The complaint alleges that during its March 14 meeting, the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by discussing and voting on a policy that had not been included on the 
meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, and the notices and video recordings of the 
Committee’s March 14, March 28, and April 11 meetings.
2 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Committee’s March 14 meeting can be found at 
http://haverhillcommunitytv.org/video/haverhill-school-committee-meeting-march-14-2024. A video recording of 
the Committee’s March 28 meeting can be found at http://haverhillcommunitytv.org/video/haverhill-school-
committee-meeting-march-28-2024. A video recording of the Committee’s April 11 meeting may be found at 
http://haverhillcommunitytv.org/video/school-committee-meeting-april-11-2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on March 14. One of the topics included on the notice read as follows: “Subcommittee Reports . . 
. 3) Policy Subcommittee Updates: Attorney Rosa, Chairperson.” When the Committee reached 
this topic during the March 14 meeting, Committee member Richard Rosa, as chair of the Policy 
Subcommittee, gave an update and noted that the Policy Subcommittee had spent significant 
time considering a policy regarding appointments to the Whittier Regional Vocational Technical 
High School’s School Committee. Member Rosa explained the purpose of the policy and noted 
that he had drafted the proposed policy, which, after input from the Policy Subcommittee, he was 
now presenting to the full Committee for consideration. Thereafter, Committee member Paul 
Magliocchetti moved to “approve policy BDFB Appointments to the Whittier Regional 
Vocational Technical High School – School Committee.” The motion was seconded and passed.  
 
The Committee then turned to other policies presented by the Policy Subcommittee and 
voted to pass each of the following: EHAA: District Security Relating to Technology; EHB: 
Data and Records Retention; BHE: Use of Electronic Messaging by School Committee 
Members; GBEE: Personnel Use of Technology; IJND: Access to Digital Resources; IJNDB: 
Use of Technology in Instruction; IJNDC: Acceptable Use of Digital Resources; and JICJ: 
Student Use of Technology in Schools. There was no substantive discussion of these policies.   
 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 28. Included on the 
notice were the following topics under the heading “Subcommittee Reports”: 
 
1) Policy Subcommittee: Revote of agenda items from the March 14, 2024, meeting 
to address possible open meeting law issue. Items: Policies BHE: Use of Electronic 
Messaging by School Committee Members; EHAA: District Security Relating to 
Technology; EHB: Data  and Records  Retention; GBEE: Personnel Use of 
Technology; IJND: Access to Digital Resources; IJNDB:  Use of Technology in 
Instruction; IJNDC: Acceptable Use of Digital Resources and JICJ: Student Use of 
Technology in Schools to be added to agenda of March 28, 2024, for re-discussion 
and vote. 
 
2) Policy Subcommittee: Revote of agenda items from the March 14, 2024, meeting 
to address possible open meeting law issue. Item Policy BDFB Appointments to 
the Whittier Regional Vocational Technical High School - School Committee to be 
added to the agenda of the April 11, 2024, for re-discussion and vote.  
 
During the March 28 meeting, Mayor Melinda Barrett, acting as chair of the Committee, 
read the first topic above aloud. Thereafter, each of the policies listed in the first topic was 
separately voted on and passed. Mayor Barrett then read the second topic aloud. It was then 
noted that the purpose of the second topic was to inform the public that the Committee would 
discuss and vote on the Whittier School Committee policy, Policy BDFB, at its April 11 meeting.  
 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 11. The notice included 
the following topic under the heading “Subcommittee Reports”: “Policy Subcommittee: Revote 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
of agenda items from the March 14, 2024, meeting to address possible open meeting law issue. 
Item Policy BDFB Appointments to the Whittier Regional Vocational Technical High School - 
School Committee to be added to the agenda of the April 11, 2024, for re-discussion and vote.”  
 
During the April 11 meeting the Committee discussed the instant Open Meeting Law 
complaint and an additional complaint. As part of this discussion Member Rosa explained that 
the Committee had learned that when the Policy Subcommittee will give a report regarding 
specific policies, it must list each policy that will be discussed on the meeting notice and that this 
is why the Committee revoted at its previous meeting to pass various policies that the Committee 
had voted on during its March 14 meeting. After voting to authorize legal counsel to respond to 
the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee began its discussion of Policy BDFB. 
Member Rosa noted that he had discussed this matter with legal counsel and that the Committee 
could approach revoting the policy in a few ways. Member Rosa then explained that he believed 
the policy required some revisions and therefore moved to rescind the policy voted on at the 
March 14 meeting and bring an amended policy to a future meeting. The motion passed.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s
 ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that 
“[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any 
other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding 
weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.3 The topics for discussion must be listed 
on the notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting,” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b), so that the public can make an informed 
decision about whether to attend the meeting to observe an anticipated discussion. See OML 
2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74.  
 
The complaint alleges that during its March 14 meeting, the Committee violated the Open 
Meeti
ng Law when it discussed and voted on Policy BDFB without including sufficient 
specificity regarding that topic on the meeting notice. The Committee acknowledges “that while 
there was an agenda item for policy review generally . . ., the policy identified in [the complaint] 
and others were not explicitly stated on the agenda,” and we find that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law. However, we find that the Committee cured the violation at its April 11 
meeting when it took appropriate remedial action, including by considering Policy BDFB anew 
and voting to rescind the version voted on during the March 14 meeting. See Pearson v. Bd. of 
Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 125 (2000) (explaining that violations of the 
Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action that is not merely a 
ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in violation of the Open 
Meeting Law); OML 2023-227. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was intentional, as the Complainant 
urges. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body: “(a) acted with specific intent to 
violate the law; (b) acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirements; or (c) was 
previously informed by . . . a court of competent jurisdiction or . . . the Attorney General . . . that 
the conduct violates M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25.” Id. We have not previously warned the 
Committee about the violation found here, nor do we find other evidence of an intent to violate 
the Law. Therefore, we decline to find an intentional violation. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged when it discussed specific policies during its March 14 meeting without listing those 
policies on the meeting notice, but that its subsequent remedial action cured the violation. We 
order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that similar conduct in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mayor Melinda E. Barrett, Chair, Haverhill School Committee  
(via email: mayor@cityofhaverhill.com)  
Kaitlin M. Wright, Clerk, City of Haverhill (via email: kwright@haverhillma.gov) 
Tom Duggan, Valley Patriots Newspaper (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
