===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 28, 2023  
  
OML 2023 – 212  
  
VIA EMAIL  
  
Devan C. Braun, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
DBraun@k-plaw.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  
 
Dear Attorney Braun:  
 
On November 13, 2023, this office received eight complaints from Paul Healey, alleging 
that the Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals (“ZBA”) and the Somerset Board of Selectmen 
(“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
 
Seven of the eight complaints were originally filed with the ZBA between October 1 and 
October 4.
1  By letter dated October 18, Town counsel, Attorney Devan C. Braun,2 responded on 
behalf of the ZBA to all seven of these complaints.  Collectively, the complaints filed with the 
ZBA allege that notice of the ZBA’s September 28 meeting was insufficiently specific and that 
ZBA member James Pimental and ZBA chair Steven Cadorette did not provide any reasoning or 
identify any specific and material change to justify reversal of a prior decision issued by the 
ZBA.  The eighth complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 3.  Attorney Braun 
responded on behalf of the Board on October 19.  In this complaint, Mr. Healey alleges that the 
Board chair prepared the notice of the September 27 Board meeting without public input and 
without consulting with other Board members, in an effort to pressure the ZBA to reverse itself.  
On November 14, the complainant forwarded supplemental materials via e-mail, in which he 
alleges various ethical violations. 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
2 For the sake of clarity, you are referenced in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that neither the Board nor the ZBA violated the Open 
Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints, 
the responses to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board’s September 27 meeting, the notice and minutes of 
the ZBA’s September 28 meeting, a video of the ZBA meeting of September 213 and documents 
available on the ZBA tab of the Town of Somerset’s website, including correspondence from the 
Secretary of the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, Rebecca Tepper, to the 
ZBA, dated September 26. 
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  Prysm ian Group of Milan (“Prysmian”) proposed to 
construct and operate a submarine cable manufacturing facility at the former Brayton Point 
power plant site in Somerset (“the Project”).  The Project included a docking facility where 
specialty ships would load cable for shipping.   
 
At its meeting on September 21, the ZBA approved Prysmian’s development plan subject 
to conditions, including installation of a “shore-to-ship” power system that would run electric 
power to ships during the loading process.  On September 26, Rebecca Tepper, Secretary of the 
Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, sent correspondence to the ZBA about 
the Project.  The Board of Selectmen met on September 27.  One item of discussion at that 
meeting was the ZBA’s decision on the Project.  The ZBA met the next day.  The notice for the 
ZBA’s September 28 meeting included the following item of discussion: “4. Discuss request 
submitted by Prysmian Group of Milan, Italy to reopen the Public Hearing to reconsider the 
condition requiring 100% shore power.”  At its September 28 meeting, the ZBA voted to “reopen 
the public hearing to reconsider the condition requiring 100% shore power . . . .” 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
I. The notice for the September 28 meeting of the ZBA was sufficiently specific 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2015- 35; OML 2019-134.4  We have previously stated that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public 
 
3 The video may be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a94dudXk7e4   
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
can make an informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion 
regarding a topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74.  
A public body need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law's 
requirements.  See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.  
 
According to the notice for its September 28 meeting, the ZBA planned to discuss the 
Project, and specifically, Prysmian’s request to reconsider the condition requiring 100% shore 
power.  This language clearly described the topic and would enable a member of the public to 
make an informed decision whether to attend the September 28 meeting.  Mr. Healey complains 
that the letter from Secretary Tepper should have been explicitly referenced in the notice for the 
September 28 meeting.  According to the complainant, the letter was purposefully omitted to 
minimize anticipated public outrage.  The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to 
list all tangential topics related to a discussion nor does the law require a public body to 
anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the 
discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2020-129 
(Open Meeting Law did not require reference to specific correspondence in notice).  We find that 
the ZBA was not required to reference the Tepper letter in the notice for the September 28 
meeting, where it otherwise adequately described the topic to be discussed.   
 
II. We decline to review the remaining allegations against the ZBA and the Board 
 
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We decline to review allegations that the ZBA did not have grounds to reverse its prior 
decision.  We also decline to review the allegation that the Board chair improperly pressured the 
ZBA to reverse itself and improperly failed to seek input from the public or other Board 
members in preparation of the notice of the September 27 Board meeting.  Finally, to the extent 
they are properly part of the complaints, we also decline to review allegations of ethical 
violations.5  All of these allegations fall outside the Open Meeting Law.  We offer no opinion on 
whether any actions taken by the ZBA or the Board could be a violation of any other law or 
regulation pertaining to public hearings.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 10-30-20 
(Billerica Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning 
Commission).   
  
 
5 The complainant appears to raise new allegations in the supplemental email of November 14.  Our office will 
address only allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint in order to give the public body an opportunity to 
respond to those allegations.  See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-165. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the ZBA and the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
Matthe
w Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
 
cc: Paul Healey (via e-mail )  
Somerset Select Board, Via Chair Jamison Souza (via e-mail: 
jsouza@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals, Via Chair Steven Cadorette (via e-mail: 
scadorette@town.somerset.ma.us)  
Somerset Town Administrator Mark Ullucci (via e-mail: 
mullucci@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Somerset Town Clerk (via e-mail: dberge@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
  
 
