===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 14, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 217 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
J. Elliott Koch, Esq. 
Driscoll & Driscoll, PC 
elliott@drilaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Koch: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 2, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Somerville Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about June 3, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated July 1. The complaint alleges that with respect to the Board’s May 9 
meeting, the Board failed to provide adequate, alternative means of access because the notice did 
not include a link to the remote meeting location. The complaint also alleges that the minutes of 
the May 9 meeting are insufficient because they 1) reference a repealed version of the Open 
Meeting Law, 2) include acronyms without explaining what the acronyms mean, and 3) do not 
include a list of documents or exhibits used during the meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to include in the minutes of the May 9 meeting a list of documents used at the meeting. We find 
that the Board did not otherwise violate the Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
two notices for the May 9 meeting, and the minutes of the May 9 meeting.  
 
Meetings of a public body must be open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session
 is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21. Generally, access to a meeting must include 
the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.2 On June 16, 2021, Governor 
Charles Baker signed into law An Act Relative To Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures 
Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021 (“Chapter 20”). Section 
20 of Chapter 20 extended the remote meeting provisions established in Governor Baker’s 
March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20 (“Executive Order”).
3 Relevant here, the Executive Order, and subsequent legislation, 
suspended the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically accessible to the 
public, provided that the public is instead given “adequate, alternative means” of access to the 
meeting.  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
incl
uding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include, 
among other things, the date, time, and place of the meeting. Id. If public access to the meeting 
will be provided via adequate, alternative means of remote access, then clear instructions for how 
the public may access the meeting must be included on the notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
OML 2020-102.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minut
es of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes must set 
forth “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” Id. 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64. By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. The Open Meeting Law does not define 
what it means for a document to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and its contents discussed by the public body, 
it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. As 
such, any documents that are physically present, verbally identified, and discussed during a 
meeting must be separately listed in the minutes. See OML 2022-141. 
 
 To begin, we address the allegation regarding the notice for the Board’s May 9 meeting. 
The May 9 meeting was held remotely via the GoTo Meeting application. The complaint alleges 
that the Board failed to provide the public with adequate, alternative means of access to the 
meeting because the notice that the Complainant viewed online did not include a link to access 
the meeting. In response, the Board explains that the original notice for the meeting, posted to 
the City’s official notice posting location,
4 included a link to access the meeting. After the 
meeting concluded, the original notice was removed from the municipal website and a version of 
the notice that included the agenda but not the link was posted instead. With its response, the 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 These provisions have been extended several times and were most recently extended until March 31, 2025. See 
Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2023. 
4 Somerville’s official notice posting location is its municipal website, https://www.somervillema.gov/. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Board provided a copy of the original meeting notice, which included a link to access the 
meeting as well as instructions for how to access the meeting via telephone. Because the original 
meeting notice for the Board’s May 9 meeting that was posted in compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law included clear instructions for how to access the meeting, we find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.      
 
 Next, we address the allegations regarding the minutes of the May 9 meeting. The 
complaint alleges that the minutes are insufficient because they 1) state that the meeting was held 
and notice was served to the Town Clerk under the authority of a repealed version of the Open 
Meeting Law, 2) include acronyms without explaining what the acronyms mean, and 3) do not 
include a list of documents or exhibits used during the meeting. First, the Open Meeting Law 
does not require that public bodies include in their meeting minutes a statement regarding the 
statutory authority under which they hold meetings or post notice; therefore, a statement that the 
meeting was held and notice posted pursuant to a repealed version of the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 39, § 23B, did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In its response, the Board explains that 
reference to G.L. c. 39, § 23B was a mistake and states that it will remove this reference from 
future meeting minutes.  
 
Second, as we have previously explained to the Complainant, the use of acronyms does 
not, on its own, constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, “especially where the meaning 
of the acronym is clear or discernible.” OML 2024-42. Here, the acronyms “SHA” to refer to the 
Somerville Housing Authority, “HUD” to refer to the United States Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, and “SEMAP,” which the minutes specifically identify as referring to 
Section 8 Management Assessment Program, were all clear and discernable. Therefore, the use 
of acronyms did not render the minutes insufficient.
5 
 
Third, the complaint alleges that the minutes fail to include a list of the documents used 
during the meeting. In its response the Board acknowledges that it did not include a list of the 
documents used during the meeting and commits to listing documents and exhibits used at a 
meeting in its minutes going forward. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
where it did not list documents used during the May 9 meeting in the minutes for that meeting. 
We commend the Board for its commitment to list such documents and exhibits going forward; 
however, in order to remedy the violation here, we order the Board to amend the minutes of its 
May 9 meeting to include a list of the documents used during the meeting.  
 
 Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes appear insufficient 
with respect to two motions made during the May 9 meeting—one related to the SEMAP and 
one related to electrical supply contracts. For each motion the minutes state “Commissioner 
Lemard moves to make a motion. Commissioner Rances seconded the motion.” The minutes do 
not include any information about the content of the motion and an individual who did not attend 
the meeting would not be able to glean from the minutes what action the Board voted to take or 
not take. We remind the Board that meeting minutes must be accurate and must include “the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. 
 
5 Although we find that the use of acronyms here did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we note that “we generally 
discourage public bodies from using acronyms in meeting minutes because members of the public may not 
understand the meaning of such abbreviations.” OML 2014-138, n. 6; see also OML 2014-116, n. 4. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
c. 30A, § 22(a). We recommend that the Board additionally amend the minutes of the May 9 
meeting to include the substance of motions voted on.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include in the minutes of the May 9 meeting a list of the documents used at the 
meeting. We find that the Board did not otherwise violate the Law as alleged. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we 
order the Board to amend the minutes of its May 9 meeting to include a list of the documents 
used during the meeting. Finally, we encourage the Board to further amend the minutes of its 
May 9 meeting to include the substance of motions voted on during the meeting.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Joe Capuano, Chair, Somerville Housing Authority Board of Commissioners  
(via email: joec@sha-web.org)  
Kimberly Wells, Somerville City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@somervillema.gov) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
