===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
August 21, 2023 
   
       OML 2023 – 131 
 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq.  
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: cmurray@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE:  Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on April 28, 2023, alleging that the 
Wayland Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 2, 2023, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated February 14, 2023.  The 
complaint alleges that the Board posted a notice with insufficient specificity with respect to one 
open session topic and one executive session topic for a meeting held on January 23, 2023. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.   In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board 
meeting held on January 23, 2023, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In February of 2022, the complainant requested from the 
Boar
d minutes of executive sessions in which the Board discussed the litigation matter of Duane 
Galbi v. Town of Wayland.  In March of 2022, the Board reviewed and unanimously voted to 
release six sets of executive session minutes involving discussions of the Galbi litigation matter 
 
1 A video recording of the January 23 meeting is available at https://www.waycam.tv/government-on-demand.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
that occurred during meetings held between October 2019 and December 2021.  Three sets of 
these minutes were redacted to protect privileged attorney-client communications.  The 
complainant thereafter appealed the redactions to the Supervisor of Records. 
 
On January 10, 2023, the Supervisor of Records issued a determination ordering the 
Boar
d to clarify whether the minutes of meetings held on July 26, 2021, and October 4, 2021, 
during which the Board discussed the litigation matter of Galbi v. Town of Wayland, could 
remain redacted to protect privileged attorney-client communications. 
 
The B
oard duly posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 23, 2023, at 7:00 P.M.  
The notice listed 14 topics.  One of the topics was “Public Records Request Reconsideration 
Determination SPR22/2141, dated January 10, 2023: discussion with Town Counsel and 
determine Board response.”  The notice also listed an executive session pursuant to Purpose 7 to 
“review and consider releasing executive session minutes dated July 26, 2021 and October 4, 
2021 related to discussion of strategy and attorney-client privilege with respect to litigation in 
Duane Galbi v. Town of Wayland et al,” “to review and approve the executive session minutes 
of January 17, 2023 with the intent to hold said minutes,” and “to review and consider for 
potential release the following executive session minutes related to consider the purchase, 
exchange, taking, lease, or value of real estate in regard to the purchase of Launcher Way: 
December 13, 2021; January 10, 2022; February 28, 2022 and August 15, 2022.”     
 
The January 23, 2023, meeting was held as planned and the Board convened in open 
session.  The Board first held a joint meeting with the Board of Public Works to discuss 
connecting the town water supply to the Massachusetts Water Resource Authority.  Chair Cherry 
Karlson then announced that the next agenda item – the Public Records Request Reconsideration 
– would be discussed in executive session.  Chair Karlson stated in open session that a response 
was due in two days and that town legal counsel as well as the Town Clerk could assist in the 
matter.  No other Board member spoke on this subject and the Board did not further discuss it in 
open session.  After discussing the remaining open session topics, the Board unanimously voted 
to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 7 to review and consider several sets of 
executive session minutes. 
 
During the executive session, the Board reviewed and approved draft minutes of a 
mee
ting held on January 17, 2023, and reviewed and approved for release four sets of executive 
session minutes of meetings held between December 13, 2021, and August 15, 2022, that related 
to the purchase of property at Launcher Way.  The Board also reviewed and discussed whether 
the minutes of meetings held on July 26, 2021, and October 4, 2021, during which the Board 
discussed the litigation matter of Galbi v. Town of Wayland, should remain redacted to protect 
privileged attorney-client communications. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.
2  When reviewing a 
meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics. 
 
The complaint alleges that the open session notice topic “Public Records Request 
Rec
onsideration Determination SPR22/2141, dated January 10, 2023: discussion with Town 
Counsel and determine Board response” was insufficient to advise the public of the nature of the 
Board’s discussion.  We note that the Board did not actually discuss the Public Records 
determination during the open session portion of the meeting.  Rather, Chair Karlson made a 30-
second announcement that this topic would be discussed in executive session.  Where a public 
body does not actually engage in any deliberation on a particular topic, it cannot violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice.  See OML 2016-76.  
Therefore, since the Board did not actually discuss this topic, we find that the notice was not 
insufficient with respect to this particular topic.   
 
The notice also indicated that the Board would convene in executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 7 to review executive session minutes.  A public body may convene in executive session 
under Purpose 7 “to comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or 
federal grant-in-aid requirements.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) (“Purpose 7”).  A public body 
entering executive session under Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public 
body to keep its deliberations confidential unless doing so would compromise the purpose for the 
closed door session.  See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wavland, 455 Mass. 
561, 569 (explaining proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires enumeration of 
enabling law).  In particular, a public body may convene in executive session to review and 
approve executive session minutes under either the original purpose for the executive session, or 
under Purpose 7 and citing to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c.30A, §§ 22(f), (g). 
 
The
 complaint alleges that the executive session topic regarding the review and possible 
release of the meeting minutes pertaining to the Galbi litigation matter was insufficient.  
Specifically, the complaint alleges that “the true purpose of the executive session was to 
determine how to respond . . . to Public Records Request Reconsideration Determination, 
SPR22/2141.”  During the executive session, the Board discussed the Public Records Request 
Determination and whether the minutes of the executive session held on July 26, 2021, and 
October 4, 2021, could be released in unredacted form.  We find that the discussions were 
appropriate as the Board was instructed in the determination letter to clarify whether the minutes 
could remain redacted to protect privileged attorney-client communications. 
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://w ww.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Moreover, we find that the executive session topic as listed on the meeting notice 
containe
d sufficient detail, as it indicated to the public the executive session purpose for which it 
intended to convene— Purpose 7—and specifically listed the meeting dates of the minutes it 
planned to review for public disclosure.  See OML 2019-55.  This complies with our general 
guidance to public bodies when conducting such a review.  See FAQ on Executive Session 
Minutes.3   
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  George Harris – By email only:  
 Wayland Board of Selectmen – By email only: sbmembers@wayland.ma.us 
 Wayland Town Clerk – By email only: aludwig@wayland.ma.us 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
3 Can a public body convene in executive session to approve executive session minutes?  
Yes, a public body may convene in executive session to review and approve executive session minutes. A public 
body may convene in executive session under the original purpose for the executive session, or it may convene in 
executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7) “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements” (“Purpose 7”), citing to the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
22(f), (g). That section of the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to review executive session meeting 
minutes and allows them to withhold executive session minutes and documents used the rein from the public until the 
purpose for confidentiality has expired.   
FAQs can be found on our website, https://www mass.gov/info-details/f
 requently-asked-questions-about-the-open-
meeting-law.  
 
 
