===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 117 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office a complaint from Ellin Asack March 2, 2024,
1 alleging that the Sandwich 
Historic District Committee (the “Committee”)2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.3 The complaint was filed with the Committee on January 30, and you responded on 
behalf of the Committee by letter dated February 20. The complaint alleges that the members of 
the Committee failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law’s certification requirement.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged but took appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, a log 
of signatures kept by the Town Clerk, Open Meeting Law certification forms completed in 
response to the complaint, and the request for further review.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024 unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint asserts that the Old Kings Highway Historic District Committee violated the Open Meeting Law . 
The Old King’s Highway Regional Historic District was established in 1973 and covers multiple towns, one of 
which is Sandwich. Each Town within the district has its own Historic District Committee. We understand this 
complaint to be against the Town of Sandwich’s Historic District Committee.  
3 The Complainant has filed three complaints with our office that relate to the Committee. Each complaint will be 
resolved by separate letter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 1, the Complainant made a public records 
request seeking the completed Open Meeting Law certification forms for each member of the 
Committee. On January 26, the Town Clerk responded to the request and provided the 
Complainant with three pages of a log the Town uses to certify receipt of Open Meeting Law and 
other materials. At the top of each page, the log reads, “I have 
been supplied with a copy of the 
Conflict of Interest Law, Open Meeting Law And Standards of Conduct as provided under Chapter 
268A of the Massachusetts General Laws.” Under this statement there are lines for town officials to 
sign, print their name, list their office, and provide the date. Circled and highlighted on the pages of 
the log that were supplied to the Complainant were the signatures and information for each member 
of the Committee except for the Chair, Michael Sullivan.  
 
 In response to the complaint, each current member of the Committee has signed the Open 
Meeting Law certification form prescribed by the Attorney General.
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, 
 
Within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall 
certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the 
open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of 
the educational material s prepared by the attorney general explaining the open 
meeting law and its application . . . . [The] city or town clerk . . . , or their designee[], 
shall obtain certification from each person upon entering service and shall retain it 
subject to the applicable records retention schedule where the body maintains its 
official records. The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public 
body has read and understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the 
consequences of violating it. 
 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h). 
 
The Open Meeting Law regula
 tions further clarify that the municipal clerk “shall, upon a 
public body member’s qualification for office, either deliver to the public body member, or 
require the public body member to obtain from the Attorney General’s website,” the educational 
materials. 940 CMR 29.04(1). The Open Meeting Law regulations define the educational 
materials as the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Guide—which includes guidance from 
the Attorney General, as well as a copy of the Open Meeting Law and the regulations—and “[a] 
copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to that public body by the Attorney 
General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a violation of [the Open 
Meeting Law].” Id. Finally, the regulations also clarify that “[a]n individual serving on multiple 
public bodies must sign a certification for each public body on which” they serve, and that public 
body members “must sign a new certification upon reelection or reappointment to the public 
body.” 940 CMR 29.04(4) and (5). 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the members of the Committee failed to comply with the 
requirement to complete the Open Meeting Law certification form. We find, and the Committee 
acknowledges, that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged where the log the 
Town used was not “a form prescribed by the attorney general,” as required by the Open 
Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A § 20(h); OML 2022-30.4,5 However, in response to the complaint 
each current Committee member completed the Open Meeting Law certification form prescribed 
by the Attorney General; therefore, we find that the Committee has taken appropriate remedial 
action.  
 
 Next, we must determine whether the Committee’s violation was, as the Complainant 
urges
, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Committee against the violation 
found here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional 
violation. Indeed, the Committee has explained that the Town utilized the log “in an effort to 
conserve resources and save paper,” and that the Town does in fact provide public body 
members with the Open Meeting Law educational materials upon their swearing-in. We credit 
the Committee’s account and find that the violation was not intentional.  
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
where its members had not completed the required Open Meeting Law certification form. We 
order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered 
evidence of an intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 We note that the use of a single log may be compliant if the content of the log aligns with the language of the Open 
Meeting Law certification form; however, in this case the language did not align .  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
cc: Sandwich Historic District Committee (via email: planning@sandwichmass.org)  
Taylor White, Sandwich Town Clerk (via email: twhite@sandwichmass.org) 
Ellin Asack (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
