===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 2, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 17 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chris Ryan, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Ryan: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on March 25, 2021, alleging that the 
Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 22, 2021, and former 
Committee Chair Jeanne Downs responded to the complaint on behalf of the Committee by letter 
dated February 2, 2021.  In his complaint, Mr. Harris alleges that the Committee approved 
insufficiently detailed minutes for two meetings held on December 29, 2020, and a third meeting 
held on December 30, 2020. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by approving 
insufficiently detailed minutes for the meetings in question.  All three meetings at issue 
concerned the hiring of a new school superintendent.  The first of the three meetings was very 
brief and consisted of an announcement of the names of the three finalists as well as a brief 
discussion about the logistics of finalist interviews.  The second and third meetings consisted of 
the Committee’s interviews, in open session, of the three finalists.  The minutes of the first 
meeting did not identify the names of the finalists, and did not include in the list of documents an 
email that was read aloud.  The minutes of the second and third meetings stated that each 
candidate gave a statement and then was asked a series of questions but did not summarize the 
interviews themselves.   
In response to the complaints, the Committee explained that the failure to list the email in 
the first set of meeting minutes was inadvertent, and notes the email was mentioned in the 
summary of the discussion.  The Committee further explained that the same list of questions is 
asked of each candidate and in the past the Committee has not summarized the substance of such 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
interviews in meeting minutes and has not been challenged on that practice nor advised that such 
minutes are inadequate.  So that there is no uncertainty, we remind the Committee that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body 
held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the 
substance of the public body's discussion. See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  In 
response to the complaint, the Committee amended all three sets of meeting minutes to add 
additional detail.  Mr. Harris does not dispute that the amended minutes are satisfactory.  
Therefore, although we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by approving 
minutes for three minutes that were insufficiently detailed, we order no further remedial action. 
 Finally, we consider whether the violation was, as the complainant urges, intentional. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law's requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  Here, nearly five years prior to the violation that we find here, we found the 
Committee violated the Law by approving insufficiently detailed meeting minutes, and we 
advised the Committee of its obligations with regard to meeting minutes.1  See OML 2016-36.  
Nonetheless, we find here that the Committee sincerely misunderstood its obligations with 
regard to capturing the substance of the interviews in meeting minutes and note the Committee’s 
willingness to immediately amend its minutes upon receipt of the complaint.  We also find no 
evidence of an intent to approve insufficiently detailed meeting minutes in order to conceal 
information from the public, where the meeting minutes stated that videos of the complete 
meetings could be found online and contained a web link.  We therefore decline to find that the 
violation was intentional. 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by approving insufficiently detailed minutes for two meetings held on December 29, 2020, and a 
meeting held on December 30, 2020.  We order the Committee’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Law.  We also order each Committee member to review the Attorney 
General's Open Meeting Law training video on meeting minutes.2  Each member shall certify to 
our office that they have done so within sixty (60) days of receipt of this letter.  As the 
Committee has since amended the minutes at issue to comply with the Law, we order no further 
remedial action.  We caution the Committee that similar violations in the future may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law and may result in the imposition of a civil 
penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional violation.  
 
1 In addition to the violation that was found in OML 2016-36 in March 2016, the Committee had also been found in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law with regard to the sufficiency of meeting minutes on two occasions more than 
five years prior.  See OML 2014-116; OML 2015-55.  Upon qualifying for office, public body members are required 
to acknowledge receipt of certain Open Meeting Law educational materials, including “[a] copy of each Open 
Meeting Law determination issued to that public body by the Attorney General within the last five years in which 
the Attorney General found a violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.04. 
2 Training Video 5: Minutes may be found at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-training-
videos. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: George Harris (via e-mail: ) 
 Wayland School Committee (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
