===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
March 19, 2013 
OML 2013 - 32 
Ken Swanton 
Chair 
Harvard Historical Commission 
Town Hall 
13 Ayer Rd. 
Harvard, MA 01451 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Harvard Historical Commission 
Dear Chair Swanton: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on October 6, 
2011, alleging that the Harvard Historical Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. Skauen-Hinchliffe's complaint alleges that "Alternate 
member Jonathan Feist discussed email communications concerning a document created with 
[Chair] Rosanne Saalfield outside a public meeting to establish qualifications of future HHC 
commissioners," and that the Chair engaged in unlawful email communication "about the 
document to establish qualifications for future HHC commissioners." Additionally, the 
complaint alleges that during the Commission's July 6, 2011 meeting, "[Commission Chair 
Rosanne Saalfield] insisted on discussing a case that was not on the agenda — specifically, a 
decision made at a previous meeting concerning replacement windows on an historic district 
property." The complaint was filed with the Commission on or about July 19, 2011. The 
Commission responded to the complaint by letter on September 6, 2011. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
complaint. Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Commission on 
or about July 19, 2011; the Commission's September 6, 2011 response; and the October 6, 2011 
complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed the final and draft minutes of the 
Commission's July 6, 2011 meeting. We reviewed a document entitled "Draft HHC Regular 
Member Job Description," and an email from former Commission alternate member Jonathan 
Feist to the members of the Commission, dated June 23, 2011. Additionally, we reviewed a 
November 4, 2011 email from former Chair Roseanne Saalfield sent to our office. Finally, we 
reviewed both a video and audio recording of the July 6, 2011 meeting, provided to our office by 
===PAGE 2===
the complainant. 
FACTS 
The Harvard Historical Commission consists of seven voting members, and two non-
voting alternate members. In June 2011, non-voting alternate member Jonathan Feist and Chair 
Roseanna Saalfield drafted a document concerning the duties and responsibilities of Commission 
members. In her September 6, 2011 response to the complaint, Chair Saalfield writes that "[t]he 
document was created by the two of us for discussion at a subsequent meeting." On June 23, 
2011, alternate member Jonathan Feist sent an email to the members of the Commission, stating 
that "I suggested to [Chair] Roseanne [Saalfield] that we come up with a membership job 
description...here's a first cut. I took elements from the CPC Liaison Job Description, and from 
various other sources. Please send me feedback directly, without cc'ing the group, and I'll bring 
a version with all our edits to the next meeting for formal discussion." It is not clear whether he 
received any replies to this request. 
On June 29, 2011, the Commission posted a notice for a July 6, 2011 meeting. Following 
the notice posting, the Commission received a letter, dated June 27, 2011, sent by the building 
inspector to George Hayes, regarding windows that he had installed in a building on his property. 
The letter alleged that Mr. Hayes failed to obtain a permit for installing the windows. 
The Commission met on July 6, 2011. During the discussion of agenda item 10, 
"Historic buildings' plaque project," Chair Saalfield raised the issue of a prior Commission 
action with respect to the Hayes property, over the objections of the other members. The 
Commission refused to take up the matter and continued with the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines a "deliberation," in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law 
defines a "quorum" as "a simple majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise 
provided in a general or special law, executive order or other authorizing provision." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. A deliberation does not include "the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. Any time a 
public body engages in a deliberation, it must post notice and convene a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18, 20. A public body must post a notice at least 48 hours in advance of each meeting, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, which must include "a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The complaint alleges that the Commission deliberated outside of a posted meeting when 
creating a document. Chair Saalfield and alternate member Feist drafted a document concerning 
the duties and responsibilities of Commission members, and then sent it over email to the rest of 
the Commission for discussion at the July 6, 2011 meeting. This falls within the exception to the 
definition of deliberation for the "distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In a June 23, 
2011 email, alternate member Jonathan Feist asked Commission members to "[p]lease send me 
2 
===PAGE 3===
feedback directly, without cc'ing the group, and I'll bring a version with all our edits to the next 
meeting for formal discussion." It is not clear from the materials we reviewed whether he 
received any replies to this request. However, we note that Mr. Feist was a non-voting alternate 
member, thus he is not subject to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2012-
105 (finding that communications by a person who is not a member of a public body with a 
quorum of the public body's members are generally not considered deliberation).' Here, the 
document sent by Mr. Feist to the Commission members did contain the opinions of the Chair on 
the matters discussed therein. However, the document was not sent by a member of the 
Commission, rather it was sent by an alternate, non-voting member, and it does not appear that 
he did so at the direction of the Chair. Furthermore, it does not appear that there was any 
response over email to the document. We therefore do not find a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. However, we caution members of public bodies to avoid distributing, or having others 
distribute, documents outside of a meeting that may contain the express opinions of members. 
We encourage public body members to solicit this type of feedback regarding documents during 
meetings, instead of via email, to avoid deliberation outside of a meeting. 
The complaint also alleges that Chair Rosanne Saalfield introduced a topic that was not 
listed in the notice at the Commission's July 6, 2011 meeting. Although Chair Saalfield raised a 
topic not on the meeting notice during an unrelated discussion, the Commission took no action, 
and actually decided not to discuss the matter. Because the Commission did not discuss the 
topic, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that Chair Saalfield deliberated over email to create a 
document to "establish qualifications for future HHC commissioners." Our investigation did not 
reveal any direct email communications between Chair Saalfield and members of the 
Commission regarding the document, though she writes in the Commission's September 6, 2012 
response to the complaint that "[t]he document was created by the two of us [with Mr. Feist] for 
discussion at a subsequent meeting." Even assuming Mr. Feist was a voting member at the 
time—and it appears that he was not—her communications with him did not constitute 
deliberation. There are seven Commission members, and a quorum is four members. G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. Thus, the discussion about the document between the Chair and Mr. Feist did not 
reach a quorum. See id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law during its July 6, 2011 meeting, nor did it violate the law by creating and 
distributing a document to be discussed at a meeting. 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/ooenmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
nathan Sclarsic 
'Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a public body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be 
filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 