===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 30, 2017 
OML 2017-180 
Mark Lanza, Esq. 
9 Damonmill Square, Suite 4A4 
Concord, Massachusetts 01742 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lanza: 
This office received a complaint from Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe on July 27 alleging 
that the Harvard Parks and Recreation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on June 21, and the Commission responded by email dated July 27.2 The complaint alleges that 
the Commission entered into executive session for an improper purpose during its June 5 
meeting, and that the June 5 notice "did not state whether or not" the Commission would 
reconvene in open session. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notice of and open and executive session minutes from the Commission's June 
5 meeting; the complaint and settlement agreement filed in Worcester Superior Court Docket 
1585CV00474; and supplementary information provided to us by the complainant pertaining to 
public records requests filed with the Commission. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by 
telephone on October 5, and with you by telephone on November 1.3 
' Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 OMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On August 25, 2014, the complainant requested from 
Commission Chair Wyona Lynch-Mc White all emails between her and the Board of the Bare 
Hill Pond Rowing Association, the Harvard Board of Selectmen, the Harvard School 
Superintendent, and the Commission for the period of April 8, 2014 to August 25, 2014. On 
September 3, 2014, the Commission informed the complainant that it had identified over 1,000 
emails that were responsive to her request and that the cost for production of the emails would be 
more than $300. The complainant appealed the Commission's response to the Supervisor of 
Records ("Supervisor") within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office. On October 10, 
2014, the Supervisor ordered the Commission to provide responsive emails to the complainant. 
On February 19, 2015, the Supervisor once again ordered the Commission to provide emails to 
the complainant. 
On March 26, 2015, the complainant filed a civil complaint in Worcester Superior Court 
(Docket 1585CV00474) seeking enforcement of the Supervisor's February order. After two 
years of motions and hearings, an Order of Dismissal Nisi was entered on May 15. An Order of 
Dismissal Nisi is a temporary judgment of dismissal conditioned upon the parties signing a 
settlement agreement and stipulating to dismissal of the case. 
On May 25, the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on Monday, June 5 at 
7:30 p.m. The notice listed, among other topics, an executive session to discuss "strategy 
regarding pending litigation between Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe and 3 members of the Parks 
and Recreation Commission." 
During the June 5 executive session portion of the meeting, the Commission discussed 
whether to resolve the lawsuit and reviewed the settlement agreement provided by Commission 
legal counsel Mark Lanza. The Commission decided to sign the settlement agreement.4 A 
stipulation of dismissal was entered in Worcester Superior Court on July 12. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Commission's June 5 executive session 
discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 
21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See 
4 We note that the Commission has released the June 5 executive session minutes. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Doherty v. School Commission of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Ferryman v. School 
Commission of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.5 
The complainant argues that the Commission convened in executive session for an 
improper purpose because "the case was settled on 17 May." At the time of the June 5 meeting, 
a temporary judgment of dismissal had been entered in court. According to Attorney Lanza, this 
temporary judgment did not conclude the civil case in Worcester Superior Court. Rather, the 
case would only be concluded upon the Commission's signing of a settlement agreement and 
subsequent filing with the court of a stipulation of dismissal. Where the stipulation was not filed 
until approximately a month after the June 5 meeting, we conclude that the Commission's 
executive session discussions were appropriate under Purpose 3 because they related to pending 
litigation and the settlement agreement was a proposed resolution to that litigation. Accordingly, 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive session. See OML 
2013-108; OML 2012-43. 
The complaint further alleges that the notice "did not state whether or not" the 
Commission would reconvene in open session. The declaration that the Commission will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session must be announced in open session. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(b)(4). This declaration does not need to be recorded in the notice. Accordingly, we 
find no violation in this regard. However, we strongly encourage public bodies to record the 
declaration in the meeting minutes so that members of the public can be confident that the 
declaration was made. 
Finally, while not raised in the complaint, we note that the Commission's June 5 open 
session meeting minutes are not sufficiently detailed. A public body may enter executive, or 
closed, session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members 
of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b). The Open Meeting Law requires 
that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). We note that the minutes are inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open 
Meeting Law because they do not include the purpose for the executive session or the vote of 
each member to enter into executive session. See OML 2013-91; OML 2012-81. We 
recommend that the Commission amend its June 5 open session meeting minutes in accordance 
with the requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
executive session on June 5 to discuss strategy with respect to pending litigation. We now 
consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Commission. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Deborah Skauen-Hinchliffe 
Harvard Parks and Recreation Commission 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 