===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 29, 2017 
OML 2017-179 
Jennifer Morse 
Chair, Rowe Board of Selectmen 
Rowe Town Hall 
321 Zoar Road, PO Box 462 
Rowe, MA 01367 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Morse: 
This office received complaints from Margaret Rice and Cynthia Laffond on 
August 7 and August 10, respectively, alleging that the Rowe Board of Selectmen (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were 
both originally filed with the Board on or about May 16, and former chair Marilyn Wilson 
responded to Ms. Rice's complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 1, and you 
responded to Ms. Laffond's complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated June 14. In 
their complaints, Ms. Rice and Ms. Laffond allege that, on May 11, the Board met in an 
unnoticed location that could not accommodate the anticipated crowd; discussed topics that 
were not listed on the meeting notice; and deliberated prior to the start of the meeting and, 
after the meeting ended and members of the public had left, reconvened the meeting in 
order to discuss a topic that was not listed on the notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list the meeting location on the notice of its May 11 meeting and by deliberating 
after the meeting had adjourned. We find that the Board did not violate the law in the 
other ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's May 11 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with the complainants, who were present for the meeting, on August 31, 
with former chair Marilyn Wilson on September 19, and with former Board member Walt 
Quist on October 24. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
Cs 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, thus two 
members constitute a quorum. The Board held a meeting on May 11. According to the 
meeting notice, the meeting was scheduled for 10 A.M. to discuss one topic: "Review and 
Award FY18 Fuel Bids." The meeting notice indicated that the meeting would be held at 
Town Hall, but it did not specify which room. Although the Board generally meets in the 
Hearing Room, when the Board arrived for this particular meeting, the room was occupied 
so the Board moved down the hallway to the Board's executive secretary's office. The 
room, though small, had enough chairs for the members of the public in attendance. 
The complainants arrived approximately 10 minutes before the meeting was 
scheduled to start and found Chair Marilyn Wilson and Board member Walt Quist in the 
new meeting location, along with the highway superintendent. Ms. Wilson and the 
highway superintendent were chatting while Ms. Wilson printed out the fuel bids in 
preparation for the meeting. Ms. Wilson contends that she did not discuss any Board 
business with Mr. Quist during this time and the complainants could not recall specifically 
the subject being discussed or whether Mr. Quist participated. Mr. Quist could not recall a 
conversation specifically, but that they "may have" discussed Board business. 
The third Board member, Dennis May, arrived soon after and the Board convened 
the meeting. The Board discussed and awarded the fuel bid, as listed in the notice. The 
Board then discussed and took action on the following three topics that were not listed on 
the notice: the Board reviewed and approved a design and engineering proposal for Cyrus 
Stage Bridge; voted to disband the Broadband Committee; and appointed a municipal light 
manager and deputy light manager. Two of the three topics were raised by David Dvore, 
who leads the Town's efforts to obtain broadband internet and is not a Board member. The 
meeting then adjourned and the complainants left the room. Then, while the Board 
members were still in the room, Mr. May asked a question about health insurance 
premiums for town employees. The Board voted to reconvene the meeting and discussed 
the issue for at least 10 minutes before the meeting adjourned for a second time. At some 
point during this discussion, complainant Margaret Rice returned to the meeting room and 
observed the remainder of the Board's discussion. The minutes summarize the discussion 
with no mention that the Board had voted to adjourn and then reconvene the meeting to 
discuss this topic. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
2 
===PAGE 3===
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' 
shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a 
member is expressed." Id, For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a 
simple majority of the members of the public body. Id, The law further requires a public 
body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 hours in advance, including a "listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 3OA, § 
20(b). 
I. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Deliberating Immediately 
Following its May 11 Meeting: However. We Find No Evidence that the 
Board Deliberated Prior to the Meeting. 
The complaints allege that the Board improperly deliberated prior to, and 
immediately following, its May 11 meeting. Approximately ten minutes prior to the 
meeting. Board members Marilyn Wilson and Walt Quist were preparing for the meeting 
separately. The highway superintendent was also present. Ms. Wilson does not recall 
engaging in a substantive conversation with either of them during this time. The 
complainants recalled Ms. Wilson and the highway superintendent chatting, but could not 
recall the subject matter. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board's account 
that, although a quorum of the Board was present in the meeting room prior to the 
meeting's commencement, they did not deliberate during that time. We take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that any discussion about Board business must occur 
during the meeting. See OML 2014-34.2 
However, we find that the Board did deliberate following the adjournment of the 
meeting. After members of the public, including the complainants, had left the meeting. 
Board member Dennis May asked a question regarding town employee health insurance, a 
topic that was not listed on the meeting notice. The Board voted to reconvene the meeting 
to discuss his question, which lasted approximately ten minutes. At some point, 
complainant Margaret Rice returned and observed the remainder of the Board's discussion. 
We find that, by pursuing a discussion after the meeting had adjourned and the public had 
left, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. OML 2017-85; OML 2016-140. We do 
not find an intentional violation for this conduct because the topic arose unexpectedly and 
Chair Wilson immediately reconvened the meeting to respond to the question in an attempt 
to comply with the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-64. We note, however, that the 
minutes summarize this discussion without any mention of the fact that the Board had 
adjourned and reconvened the meeting. We therefore order the Board to revise its minutes 
to reflect an accurate depiction of its actions. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
II, The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to List the Specific 
Meeting Location on its May 11 Meeting Notice. 
The complaints allege that the Board's May 11 meeting was held in the Board's 
executive secretary's office, rather than the hearing room, which is its usual meeting 
location down the hall. The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a public body 
must be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the opportunity to 
be physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of 
the public body. OML 2014- 3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. Though smaller than the 
hearing room, we find that the public had sufficient access to the meeting. See OML 
2014-11. However, the notice did not identify the precise meeting location, listing it 
simply as "Town Hall." This omission violated the Open Meeting Law because members 
of the public should not have to guess where in the building the meeting is being held. See 
OML 2014-21. Additionally, we note that the Board should have posted a sign on the 
hearing room door indicating that the meeting had re-located. 
III. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Discussing 
Unanticipated Topics that Were Not Listed on its May 11 Meeting Notice. 
The complaints allege that the Board discussed topics that were not listed on the 
May 11 meeting notice. During this meeting, the Board reviewed and approved a design 
and engineering proposal for Cyrus Stage Bridge; voted to disband the Broadband 
Committee, and appointed a municipal light manager and deputy light manager. We find 
troubling the Board's willingness to discuss and vote on three seemingly significant topics 
which were not listed on the meeting notice. However, we find that Chair Wilson did not 
anticipate discussing those topics during the meeting, but rather intended to convene solely 
to review fuel bids, as indicated on the notice. Accordingly, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by pursuing a discussion and voting on those topics during the 
meeting. OML 2017-117; OML 2017-13. Although a public body may consider an 
unanticipated topic that was not listed in the meeting notice, however, our office strongly 
encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on unnoticed topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public. See OML 2016-23; OML 
2012-85. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to list the meeting location on the meeting notice and by deliberating after 
the meeting had adjourned. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with 
the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board to revise its May 11 
meeting minutes within 30 days of receipt of this determination. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
WM 
ianneRush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Margaret Rice 
Cynthia Laffond 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d), The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 