===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 165 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Danielle Fillio  
Richmond Town Administrator 
Town Hall 
1529 State Road 
Richmond MA 01254 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Fillio: 
This office received a complaint from Craig Swinson on September 10, 2021, alleging 
that the Richmond Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 26, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 10.1 In his complaint, Mr. Swinson 
alleges that the Board, at its August 25 meeting, discussed and voted on a topic which was not 
included on the notice for the meeting.2 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the 
Board’s August 25, September 9 and 29 meetings. Finally, we reviewed meeting notices of the 
Board’s October 13 and 27 meetings.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices “contain the date, time and place 
of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 The complaint also alleges that members of the Board discussed a Town employee’s vaccination status during the 
August 25 open session meeting. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of 
best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order 
to include such topics in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 
2018-119.3 
 At its August 25 meeting, the Board discussed and voted to mandate that all Town 
employees be vaccinated against COVID-19 as a condition of employment. This topic was not 
listed on the notice for the August 25 meeting. The Board states in its response that this topic 
was not anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Indeed, the minutes of the 
meeting make clear that the issue was raised by a member of the public who asked to address the 
Board. The individual mentioned that the Centers for Disease Control had recently granted full 
authorization of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. In light of this, he asked whether the Board 
would require all town employees to be vaccinated as a condition of employment, something he 
supported. The Board’s Chair explained that the School Committee would have to make any 
vaccination decisions for school department employees, but that the Board had jurisdiction over 
Town Hall and Highway Department employees. After a discussion of the pros and cons of a 
vaccine mandate, the Chair moved to impose the mandate. The Board voted two to one in favor 
of the mandate. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of 
the facts. See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93. We find that the topic of the vaccine mandate was 
raised by a member of the pubic at the August 25 meeting and the Board’s discussion and vote 
regarding the vaccine mandate was unanticipated by the Chair 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
Thus, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we take this 
opportunity to remind the Board that the Attorney General strongly encourages public bodies, as 
a best practice for the future, to postpone discussion and action on topics that are controversial or 
may be of particular interest to the public if the topic was not listed in the meeting notice and can 
wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-172. We note that the Board told the Town 
Administrator on the morning of August 26 not to take action on the new vaccine mandate until 
the topic could be discussed at a subsequent meeting. The Board has continued discussing the 
vaccine mandate, especially which employees it could cover, at subsequent meetings on 
September 9 and 29, and October 13 and 27.   
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
cc: Craig Swinson (via e-mail: ) 
 Richmond Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Neal Pilson (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
