===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 16,2019 
OML 2019-29
John S. Mangiaratti 
Acton Town Manager 
472 Main Street 
Acton, MA 01720
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Mangiaratti:
This office received four complaints from Steven Ballard on March 29 alleging that the 
Acton Community Preservation Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on February 2; 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by separate letters dated February 21. The 
complaints allege that the minutes of Committee meetings held on December 6, 2018; January 3; 
January 17; and January 24 failed to include i) the time of each meeting, ii) the members who 
were absent during each meeting, and iii) a list of documents used by the Committee during each 
meeting.
We resolve these complaints by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the original complaints, the Committee’s responses to the 
complaints, the complaints filed with our office requesting further review, and the notices and 
open session minutes of Committee meetings held on December 6, 2018; January 3; January 17; 
and January 24.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30 A, § 22(a).
The minutes of the Committee meetings held on December 6, 2018; January 3; January 
17; and January 24 include the date and place of each meeting and the members who were 
present at each of the meetings. The minutes do not include the time of each meeting or a list of
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2019.

===PAGE 2===
documents used by the Committee during each meeting. Although the minutes reflect that Chair 
Ray Yacouby opened each meeting at 7:30 P.M., this does not satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirement that the minutes include the actual scheduled time of each meeting. Moreover, the 
Committee conceded that the minutes did not contain a list of documents that were used during 
each meeting. The Committee’s failure to include in the meeting minutes the time of the 
meeting and a list of documents used at the meeting violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
commend the Committee for taking prompt remedial action in response to the complaints to 
revise the minutes to include this information, and adopting a revised template for meeting 
minutes to ensure future compliance.2
Finally, the Open Meeting Law requires that minutes of meetings include the members 
who were present or absent, not the members who were present and absent. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(a); 940 CMR 29.11(1). Although we recommend as a best practice that public bodies list 
both members present and absent in their meeting minutes, it is not a requirement of the Open 
Meeting Law and thus the Committee did not violate the law by listing in its minutes only the 
members who were present at each meeting.
Although we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in some of the 
ways alleged, and recognize the complainant’s role in bringing the issues to the Committee’s 
attention, we also commend the Committee for taking remedial action to ensure future 
compliance. We note that at the time the complaints were filed with our office, the Committee 
had already revised the minutes at issue to include the missing information, and had committed 
to utilize a meeting minutes template going forward that would contain all of the required 
information. In situations where a violation has been acknowledged and corrective action taken, 
we urge complainants to consider whether it is necessary to forward complaints to this office for 
further review. Pursuing such complaints with this office after a public body has acknowledged 
its violation and pledged to take steps so that it won’t be repeated takes up scarce state and local 
resources without advancing the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental 
transparency. Likewise, filing numerous separate Open Meeting Law complaints asserting 
identical or nearly identical violations in each, where one complaint would be sufficient to bring 
the issue to the public body’s attention, does not further advance the goals of the Open Meeting 
Law.
We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
2 The revised minutes of the December 6, 2018; January 3; January 17; and January 24 meetings all include the 
following statement: “For a review of the meeting documents for this meeting, please visit the digital link below.” 
The link includes a list and copy of the documents used at the meetings. We remind the Committee that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that minutes contain a list of documents used at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). We 
note that minutes of the Committee’s February 28 meeting do not include such a statement and we presume the 
Committee has ceased the practice and instead includes in its minutes a list of documents used during the meeting as 
required by the law.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
C
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Steven Ballard
Acton Community Preservation Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
