===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
wwvv.mass.gov/ago 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
June 15,2017 
OML 2017-95 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Austin; 
This office received a complaint from J. Grant Mackay, dated March 15, 2017, alleging 
that the Rockport Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3 OA, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 14, 2017, and the 
Board responded by letter dated February 3, 2017. In his complaint, Mr. Mackay alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) convening in executive session without a valid 
statutory purpose, (ii) failing to follow proper procedure before entering executive session, (iii) 
failing to release executive session minutes once the purpose for secrecy expired, (iv) failing to 
provide executive session minutes upon request, and (v) failing to review executive session 
minutes to determine their suitability for release. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed a supplementary written 
response from the Board dated May 5, 2017. We reviewed the minutes of executive session 
Board meetings held on December 2 and 16, 2014. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal 
counsel by telephone on March 29, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is a member of a group called Keep 
Rockport Green. The underlying matter involved in this complaint is the potential purchase of a 
parcel of property in Rockport known as "Woodland Acres." 
At issue are two executive sessions held by the Board on December 2 and 16, 2014. 
During both executive sessions, the chair made a motion for the Board to "enter Executive 
Session under MGL Chapter 30A, § 21(a) for Exemption #6 to discuss strategy with respect to 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Real Property." The minutes do not indicate whether the chair stated that holding these 
discussions in open session would compromise the town's negotiating position. During both 
executive sessions, the discussions centered on the value of the Woodland Acres property, and, 
in particular, whether the town would purchase the property in conjunction with an organization 
called the Essex County Greenbelt Association. While details of the arrangement had previously 
been negotiated by the Rockport Conservation Commission, any such purchase required the 
approval of the Board. The Board discussed the merits of the acquisition proposal, including 
how a proposal to retain a conservation restriction on the property would affect the purchase 
price. Ultimately, the Board took no action on the potential purchase during these two meetings. 
On December 8, 2016, an associate of the complainant sent an e-mail to the Board's 
office manager requesting the minutes of executive sessions during which the Board discussed 
Woodland Acres. On this same date, the office manager responded by e-mail stating that the 
minutes had not yet been released to the public. 
The process of negotiating an agreement with the Greenbelt Association involved 
extended discussions with the Rockport Conservation Commission, which extended into January 
2017. At that time, the Board learned that there were private third-party purchasers interested in 
the property which would impair the Board's ability to purchase the property. The complaint 
was filed with the Board on January 14, 2017. The Board held a meeting on January 17, 2017, 
during which it reviewed the December 2 and 14, 2014 executive session minutes and voted to 
release them.1 
DISCUSSION 
I. Certain Allegations in the Complaint are Untimely. 
Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public 
body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation could 
not reasonably have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 
30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). When an 
alleged violation occurs during an open meeting, the alleged violation is reasonably discoverable 
at the time it occurs. See OML 2014-85; OML 2012-52.2 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it entered 
executive session on December 2 and 16, 2014, because the chair failed to provide sufficient 
information in the verbal statement prior to entering executive session and failed to state that 
holding the discussion in open session would harm the town's negotiating position. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a)(6), 21(b)(3). Because these apparent deficiencies were discoverable during the 
open session portions of the December 2 and 16, 2014 meetings, any complaints should have 
been filed within 30 days of each meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). Because 
we find that these allegations are untimely, we decline to review them. However, we take this 
opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
the procedural steps required before entering executive session. The chair must state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
1 The December 14, 2014 executive session minutes contain some redactions, per G.L. 3 OA, § 22(f). 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). As discussed 
below, an additional statement is also required when convening an executive session to discuss 
real estate. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(6). 
II. The Executive Sessions at Issue were Held for a Proper Purpose. 
A public body may convene in executive session for any of ten statutory purposes. One 
permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) ("Purpose 6"). 
Here, the complaint alleges that "no points of negotiation existed" during the December 2 
and 16, 2014 meetings, and the Board therefore did not have a negotiating position to protect in 
executive session. Accordingly, the complaint contends that these discussions should only have 
been held in open session. We disagree. Our review of the December 2 and 16, 2014 executive 
session minutes reveals that the Board discussed the value of the Woodland Acres property, 
which is clearly within the ambit of Purpose 6. To the extent that the complaint alleges that the 
Board had no negotiating position to protect because the Conservation Commission had already 
conducted some negotiations, we note that the transaction was pending until January 2017. 
Because the town had a negotiating position to protect until the terms of the transfer were 
finalized, see OML 2016-93, we find that the Board appropriately convened the December 2 and 
16, 2014 executive sessions under Purpose 6. 
III. The Board Appropriately Reviewed and Released the Executive Session Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-47; OML 2013-
16; OML 2012-29. A public body, or its chair or designee, must, at reasonable intervals, review 
the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued non-disclosure of those minutes is 
warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes 
of an executive session or any portion thereof, the public body must respond to the request 
within 10 days following receipt and must release any such minutes not covered by an 
exemption. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that 
the requested executive session minutes may be released, it should respond to the requester 
directly, notifying him or her whether those minutes are available. See OML 2013-105; OML 
2013-99. If the body previously determined that executive session minutes should remain 
confidential because publication would defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, it 
should respond by stating the reason why the minutes continue to be withheld. G.L. c. 3OA, § 
22(g)(2). And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the 
minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such 
a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. Id. In such circumstances, the body should still respond to the requestor 
within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. See OML 2013-99. 
3 The complaint correctly states that the descriptions of the December 2 and 16, 2014 executive sessions were 
flawed, in that "strategy" with respect a real estate purchase is not an enumerated reason for convening under G.L. c, 
30A, § 21(a)(6). Nevertheless, we find that the Board discussed the value of real property during the executive 
sessions, and that the Board had a negotiating position to protect. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to follow proper procedure with respect to its 
executive session minutes in several ways. First, the complaint alleges that the Board has 
systematically failed to review and release its executive session minutes over several years. We 
note that the Board was the subject of an earlier determination from the Division concerning the 
review and release of executive session minutes, see OML 2016-84, and the Board has taken 
efforts since that time to correct prior deficiencies. We focus instead on the specific minutes 
addressed in the complaint, December 2 and 16, 2014. The complaint contends that the 
executive session purpose underlying these meetings had expired prior to January 2017, and that 
the minutes therefore should have been released earlier. As discussed above, we find that the 
town had an ongoing negotiating position until January 2017, and we therefore find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by waiting until January 17, 2017 to publicly 
release the minutes. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(g)(2). We further find that the Board appropriately 
responded to requests for the executive session minutes. When an individual requested the 
executive session minutes, she was promptly informed that the minutes could not be released. 
Following receipt of the present complaint in January, after the interest of third party purchasers 
had frustrated the Board's negotiations, the Board reviewed and released the minutes. Id. We 
therefore find that the Board satisfied its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
SINCERCJ^ sy2? ri ' //ffj — 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: J. Grant Mackay, Keep Rockport Green 
Rockport Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 