===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 11, 2017 
OML 2017-187 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Butler, dated November 3, alleging that the 
Sheffield Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 3, and the Board responded 
by letter dated October 19. In her complaint, Ms. Butler alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by: (i) posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice, and (ii) limiting her 
participation during a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board posted an insufficiently detailed meeting 
notice. However, because the Open Meeting Law gives discretion to public body chairs over 
who may speak or otherwise participate during a meeting, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law with respect to the other allegation. In reaching a determination, we 
reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the request for further review filed 
with our office. We reviewed the notices and minutes of Board meetings held on October 2 and 
23. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on November 28, and we 
spoke with the complainant by telephone on December 4.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On April 3, the complainant sent a letter to the Board 
requesting that the Board investigate alleged wrongdoing by the town administrator. 
Subsequently, the complainant attended many Board meetings and attempted to raise this issue 
with the Board. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on October 2. The notice listed, among 
other topics, a discussion of "Resident Complaints." The notice did not provide any other 
information about what the Board planned to discuss. Prior to the October 2 meeting, the 
complainant asked the Board's administrative assistant to identify the residents and complaints 
that would be addressed; the complainant never received a response from the Board. 
The Board held its October 2 meeting as planned, and, during the portion of the meeting 
reserved for "Resident Complaints," the minutes state the following: 
The Board would like to address an on-going issue. As many of you are aware from 
watching our meetings, we have been asked repeatedly about the Hanlon ruling. The 
Board has reviewed the mountains of letters received from a particular resident 
questioning how this matter was handled. The Board is satisfied with how this was 
handled. Therefore, there will be no further discussions on this topic before the Board. 
On the table in front of the Board are files of requests and responses from this same 
resident. These files only represent the past four years, there are more files going back 
further. Some of the requests are repeated over and over, and some do not ask for public 
records but ask questions or to schedule meetings. 
Members of the Board of Selectmen have met with this individual in the past without any 
resolution to her particular issues. The outcome to issues sometimes are not favorable to 
the resident making the request. 
It is unfortunate that so much time has been consumed by these requests, as each one has 
to be read to determine if there is a public records request. Many hours have been spent 
by the resident viewing the files. She has had access to all of the files on several 
occasions. Legal counsel has been consulted and has drafted responses to her requests. 
We have sat through countless readings of letters and discussions regarding her 
complaints and will not do so any longer. Complaints regarding employees are handled 
in Executive Session if necessary and we will not investigate any complaints unless we 
determine that there are actual issues to be investigated. 
The Town is obligated to comply with all public records requests and we wanted our 
citizens to realize how much time and money is spent reviewing and responding to these 
requests and how those funds could be spent to better to serve the Town. 
The public has a right under the Open Meeting Law to attend all public meetings but 
does not have right to speak unless recognized by the Chair. Due to the amount of time 
spent on this matter, it is unlikely that the Chair will recognize this individual at any 
future meetings to continue discussion of this matter. 
The complainant was present during the October 2 meeting. She asked to be recognized 
by the chair, but he declined to permit her to speak, 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on October 23. The notice of this 
meeting listed, "Resident Complaints—Butler Requests and Complaints." During the meeting, 
the chair stated that this matter was being raised again because "one or two people did not know 
2 
===PAGE 3===
who this item pertained to" when it was raised on October 2. The chair then repeated the 
statement made during the October 2 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board's October 2 Meeting Notice Lacked Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include "a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." Id. The listing of topics must be listed with sufficient detail to reasonably advise 
the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally 
consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read 
the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-
35.3 
Here, the complainant alleges that the Board's October 2 meeting notice lacked sufficient 
detail because the topic "Resident Complaints" did not specify that the Board would be 
discussing her complaints. In response, the Board argues that the discussion concerned general 
Board policies with respect to complaints, rather than complaints from any single member of the 
public. In support of this position, the Board cites to our determination in OML 2013-71. In that 
determination, we found that a meeting notice listing "Statement on School Committee responses 
to Open Meeting Law violation complaints" was sufficiently detailed because the public body at 
issue held a "general discussion" detailing the body's policies for responding to future 
complaints. Here, the Board's discussion was more targeted, The Board's statement made 
reference to "a particular resident," "this individual," and a single "she." Further, the October 23 
notice and the chair's statement prior to re-reading the October 2 statement made clear that the 
discussion concerned a particular individual. We therefore find that the October 2 meeting 
notice lacked sufficient detail. See OML 2017-177 (where a public body anticipates discussing 
particular individuals, the names of those individuals must be included on the meeting notice). 
We note the Board's effort to correct this failure by adding more detail to the October 23 notice 
and repeating its discussion from the October 2 meeting. We commend the Board for taking this 
remedial action. 
II. The Board Permissibly Limited Public Participation. 
The Open Meeting Law states that "[no] person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law therefore gives discretion to the chair of a public body 
to determine who may speak or otherwise participate at a meeting. See OML 2015-12. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by declining the 
complainant's request to speak during the October 2 meeting. As it is within the chair's 
discretion to limit public participation during meetings, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2017-181. However, we encourage 
3 Open Meeting Law determination letters may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
public bodies to allow public participation whenever possible. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-
129; OML 2012-59. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice. We order the Board's immediate and future 
compliance with the law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the Board took remedial action by posting a more 
detailed notice of the October 23 discussion, we order no additional relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Mangananr— 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sheffield Board of Selectmen 
Susan Butler 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 