===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 73 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas Mullen, Esq. 
Law Offices of Thomas Mullen, P.C. 
tmullen@thomasamullenpc.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mullen: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bob Murchison on August 30, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the North Sherborn Water District Working Group (the “Working Group”) and the chair of the 
Sherborn Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 28, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letter dated August 17. The complaint alleges that the Working Group is a 
subcommittee of the Board and that it failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and that it failed to comply with the Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the request for further 
review and documents provided therewith. Additionally, we reviewed video recordings of Board 
meetings held on February 24, 2022; June 30, 2022; May 4, 2023; June 29, 2023; August 10, 
2023; and September 21, 2023. Finally, we also reviewed video recordings of a Conservation 
Committee meeting held on September 7, 2023, and the October 17, 2023, Special Town 
Meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to the creation of a water and 
sewer district serving two development projects in Sherborn. Prior to 2021, a private developer 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of the meetings listed above may be found at https://www.youtube.com/@doversherborncabletv. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
had begun exploring the possibility of receiving water and sewer services from Sherborn’s 
neighbors, Framingham and Natick. After the developer withdrew from the projects, Marian 
Neutra and George Morrill, members of the Board, undertook, on their own, efforts to continue 
negotiating with Framingham and Natick for water and sewer services.  
 
During a Board meeting held on February 24, 2022, Ms. Neutra and Mr. Morrill updated 
the Board on their efforts, providing background information, explaining their current efforts, 
and explaining that they wished to hire new outside counsel to assist them as they were unhappy 
with legal counsel that had been assisting the Town on this matter previously. During the 
meeting, fellow Board members asked questions and one member, Paul DeRensis, asked that 
Ms. Neutra and Mr. Morrill keep in mind the potential impact on the Town’s obligations under 
the MBTA Communities Law if a portion of the Town were to have water and sewer services 
provided. Ms. Neutra and Mr. Morrill indicated that they would consider this issue. During the 
discussion, Ms. Neutra explained that the Town would need to create a water and sewer district.  
 
During a Board meeting held on June 30, 2022, Ms. Neutra and Mr. Morrill formally 
requested that the Board engage Attorney Thomas Mullen
3 as special counsel to assist with 
intermunicipal agreements and the creation of a water and sewer district. The Board voted to 
engage Attorney Mullen.  
 
Mr. Morrill later left the Board and Board member Jeffrey Waldron joined Ms. Neutra to 
work on the water and sewer project. Over time, Ms. Neutra and Mr. Waldron also worked with 
other Town officials on this effort, including Planning Board member Addie Mae Wiess, Public 
Works Director Sean Killeen, and Town Planner Gino Carlucci. When Jeremy Marsette became 
the Town Administrator, he joined the effort as well. At some point the North Sherborn Water 
District Working Group was formed. According to a PowerPoint presentation provided to the 
Board on May 4, 2023, the Working Group consists of Ms. Neutra, Mr. Waldron, Ms. Weiss, and 
Mr. Killeen, as well as Groundwater Protection Committee member Tom Trainor, Board of 
Health member Matt Vitale, and Water Commission member Tara Hourihan. The PowerPoint 
slide also lists Mr. Marsette, Mr. Carlucci, and Attorney Mullen.  
 
During the Board’s May 4, 2023, meeting, Ms. Neutra and Mr. Marsette presented the 
above-mentioned PowerPoint to the Board. During the presentation, Ms. Neutra explained that 
the Working Group had been working with Mr. Marsette and Attorney Mullen to make key 
decisions about the water and sewer district including the boundaries of the district, how the 
district would be governed, and what the district’s relationship to the Town would be. Ms. 
Neutra explained that the Working Group had reached consensus on matters after “a lot of 
discussion,” and that legal documents drafted by Attorney Mullen, including proposed legislation 
creating water and sewer districts, incorporated the Working Group’s decisions on these matters. 
Ms. Neutra also noted that the proposed legislation creating water and sewer districts would need 
to be approved by the Board and then sent to Town Meeting in order to authorize the Board to 
submit the proposed legislation to the legislature. Ms. Neutra noted that the goal that evening 
was to get input from the Board and the public, then to continue working on the proposed 
legislation to “bring it back to the Select Board and decide among us, can we be ready to take 
this to a Town Meeting in the fall.”  
 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
After the presentation, the Chair opened the floor to questions and comments from the 
Board. Board member Paul DeRensis suggested that instead of creating a water district and a 
sewer district, they should create a combined water and sewer district. In response, Attorney 
Mullen noted that “the group” had considered this and then explained why it had decided to 
create two separate districts. Mr. DeRensis provided additional feedback explaining why he 
thought they could create one combined district; Ms. Neutra and Attorney Mullen appeared 
inclined to take this recommendation under advisement and ultimately the proposed legislation 
was for one combined district.  
 
During a Board meeting held on June 29, 2023, Mr. Marsette provided an update on the 
water and sewer project, noting that he and Ms. Neutra had been presenting the project to other 
public bodies in Town. During the meeting it was discussed again that the Board would need to 
present the proposed legislation to Town Meeting and be authorized by Town Meeting to submit 
the proposed legislation to the legislature. The Board voted to hold a Special Town Meeting on 
October 17 for the purpose of requesting authorization to submit the proposed legislation to the 
legislature.  
 
During a Board meeting held on August 10, 2023, the Board again received an update on 
the project during which Ms. Neutra noted that the Working Group continued to discuss 
concerns raised by various parties, including abutters, in an attempt to incorporate those concerns 
into the proposed legislation. During the meeting, which occurred after the present complaint 
was filed with the Board, Ms. Neutra asserted that the Working Group is not a public body but 
rather an informal group working under Mr. Marsette. However, it was mentioned several times 
that the Working Group itself was helping to draft the proposed legislation including by 
considering and grappling with substantive issues related to the proposed water and sewer 
district.  
 
During a September 7 Conservation Commission meeting, Working Group member Tom 
Trainor gave a presentation about the water and sewer district project and stated that he had been 
“tapped about 9 months ago to form this Working Group that the Select Board was forming to 
start kicking around this idea of really going full force about setting up a water and sewer 
district.” 
 
During its September 21 meeting, the Board voted to support the warrant article related to 
creation of a water and sewer district, Article 5. At the October 17 Special Town Meeting, the 
Town voted in favor of Article 5, authorizing the Board to petition the legislature to create the 
North Sherborn Water and Sewer District.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies. See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Law defines “public body” as “a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee . . . however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee includes 
a “multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. Whether a public body created a subcommittee is a fact-intensive inquiry and our 
analysis hinges on the public body’s actions and whether it intended to create a multiple-member 
body. Compare, e.g., OML 2017-111 (finding that no subcommittee was created where a single 
volunteer was sought to work on a matter and another board member thereafter, on their own 
initiative, volunteered to assist), with OML 2018-23 (finding that a subcommittee was created 
where multiple volunteers were sought to work on a matter and after two individuals 
volunteered, the public body, by consensus, formally agreed to the arrangement).
4  
 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider: 1) the entity must be “within” government and 
not excluded from the definition of “public body;” 2) the entity must be a “body” empowered to 
act collectively; and 3) the entity must serve a “public purpose.” See OML 2017-118; OML 
2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1. The Supreme Judicial Court recognized 
an exception to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of public body in Connelly v. School 
Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an 
individual public official creates a group to advise that person on a decision that he or she has the 
sole authority to make, that group is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 409 Mass. 
at 235.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Working Group is a subcommittee of the Board and that it 
failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law. In response, the Board asserts that the Working 
Group is not a public body because 1) it falls within the Connelly exception, and 2) it is not 
empowered to act collectively. Whether the Working Group is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law presents a close question. However, based on the totality of the information before 
us, we find that the Working Group is a subcommittee of the Board and therefore subject to the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
To begin, we find that the facts before us do not support a finding that the Working 
Group was created by Mr. Marsette to advise him on a matter solely within his authority. Indeed, 
the Board’s response clarifies that Mr. Marsette joined an effort that was already underway with 
several of the members of the Working Group already involved. Additionally, this effort was 
begun and spearheaded by members of the Board, not by Mr. Marsette. Furthermore, Ms. Neutra 
and Mr. Marsette periodically updated the Board on the project and sought the Board’s feedback 
and approval.  
 
Next, although the efforts of Ms. Neutra and Mr. Morrill to revive the intermunicipal 
negotiations and create a water and sewer district may have begun as something they undertook 
of their own volition and not as a formal subcommittee of the Board, over time the Board’s 
actions infused their work and the individuals undertaking that work with the legitimacy and 
authority of a subcommittee tasked with advising and making recommendations to the Board. 
For example, the Board authorized the hiring of legal counsel for the project. Additionally, 
throughout the project, Ms. Neutra and others updated the Board regarding the progress of the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
project and sought the Board’s input and approval, which the Board provided. Finally, as noted 
in several meetings, the Board’s approval was required for the project to move forward. 
Therefore, we find that through the Board’s own actions, at some point on or before May 4, 
2023, a subcommittee of the Board was created. See OML 2021-78; OML 2023-32; OML 2023-
55. 
 
Finally, the Board asserts that the Working Group is not empowered to act collectively 
because it does not have a quorum requirement and does not take votes. Again, based on the 
evidence before us, we do not agree with this characterization of the Working Group. Based on 
information provided during the Board’s May 4 meeting, the Working Group has a set 
membership from which a quorum can be calculated. Additionally, although when determining 
whether a body is empowered to act collectively we may consider whether the body takes votes, 
this alone is not determinative. Simply using the word “consensus” instead of “vote” does not 
negate a body’s collective action. It is clear from the way the Working Group’s work was 
described to the Board and other bodies that the Working Group collectively made decisions 
about the water and sewer district and that those decisions were reflected in the proposed 
legislation presented to the Board and Town Meeting. For the above reasons, we find that the 
Working Group is a subcommittee of the Board and is therefore subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. We note that our finding here is based on and limited to the specific facts presented in this 
case. 
 
With respect to the remedial action requested in the complaint, we do not order the 
Working Group to start its work anew where the Working Group periodically updated the Board 
and other public bodies during properly noticed, open session meetings, and where the proposed 
legislation representing the recommendations of the Working Group has been approved by Town 
Meeting and submitted to the legislature. However, we caution the Working Group that any 
future meetings must comply with the Open Meeting Law. Furthermore, we caution the Board 
that its subcommittees must comply with the Open Meeting Law.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group is a subcommittee of the 
Board and that it failed to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. If the 
Working Group is still extant, we order its immediate and future compliance with Open Meeting 
Law and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the Law. Because the Working Group periodically provided substantive updates on its 
work during public Board meetings (which were video recorded and are available online) and 
because both the Board and Town Meeting publicly discussed and approved the proposed 
recommendations, we do not order further remedial action.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Working 
Group, the Board, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeff Waldron, Chair, Sherborn Select Board (via email: jwaldron@sherbornma.org)  
Jacklyn Morris, Sherborn Town Clerk (via email: jmorris@sherbornma.org) 
Bob Murchison (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
