===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 5, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 28 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kathleen Degnan, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
degnank@holyoke.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Degnan: 
 
This office received three complaints alleging that the Holyoke City Council (the 
“Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Stephen Superba filed two 
complaints with the Council, one on June 18, 2024,1 and one on July 10. City Councilor Linda 
Vacon filed the third complaint with the Council on July 8.2 You responded to the complaints by 
letters dated June 20 and August 2.3 The three complaints relate to the Council’s June 11 
executive session. We understand the complaints to allege that 1) the notice topic “Litigation 
update” was insufficient where it did not identify the specific litigation matters to be discussed; 
2) the announcement prior to convening in executive session was likewise insufficient; 3) the 
executive session was held for an improper purpose; and 4) Council members have not received 
executive session minutes for over five years.   
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The June 18 and July 10 complaints were filed with our office on August 15, and the July 8 complaint was filed on 
August 12. 
3 It is unclear whether, prior to a response being issued, the Council met to review the first complaint and delegate 
authority to respond. Likewise, although the Council planned to meet to discuss the second and third complaints, a 
response to those complaints was issued prior to the Council meeting. We remind the Council that before responding 
to an Open Meeting Law complaint a public body must first meet to review the complaint and, if it so chooses, 
delegate authority to legal counsel or other individual to respond. OML 2020-164 (“The Board may review the 
complaint at a meeting and then authorize the Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator 
may receive the complaint and draft a response for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not remove 
itself entirely from the process.”).  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient notice to the public of the topics to be discussed during its June 11 
executive session. We also find that the Council discussed in executive session topics that were 
not appropriate for executive session. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaints, the responses to the complaints, and the requests for further review. 
We also reviewed the notice for the June 11 meeting, a video recording of the open session 
portion of the June 11 meeting, minutes of the June 11 executive session,4 and a video recording 
of the Council’s June 27 meeting.5 Finally, we communicated with the Attorney Degnan via 
email and telephone.6 
 
FACTS 
  
 We find the facts to be as follows. The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
June 11. The notice included the following topic and note:  
 
Item 1: Litigation update 
 
Items will require the Council to enter into executive session. 
 
 On June 11 the Council convened in open session prior to convening in executive 
session. During the open session portion of the meeting, the Council President explained that the 
purpose of the meeting was to convene in executive session for a “litigation update.” The 
President did not state that holding the discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect 
on the Council’s litigating position. Thereafter, the Council voted to convene in executive 
session. Because the minutes of the executive session have not been released to the public, we do 
not recount their substance in detail here but note that the Council discussed three litigation 
matters in executive session on June 11 as well as several topics that did not relate to litigation 
matters or strategy.   
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The notice and announcement of the June 11 executive session 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. 
One such purpose is “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an 
 
4 We reviewed the minutes in camera. The minutes we reviewed included redactions made under an assertion of the 
attorney-client privilege.  
5 A recording of the open session portion of the Council’s June 11 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=92VLaXZWE30. A video recording of the Council’s June 27 meeting can be 
found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CVyOo-wa62E. 
6 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public 
body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“A precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was  
proper or improper.”). When convening in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss litigation 
strategy, both the meeting notice and the announcement before entering the executive session 
must identify the litigation matter to be discussed, if doing so will not compromise the executive 
session purpose. See, e.g., OML 2016-152 (“In prior determinations, we have required public 
bodies to disclose the name of the litigation matter under discussion, or to include some 
description of the litigation issue the body sought to discuss.”); OML 2024-168 (clarifying that 
with respect to complaints before the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, a 
public body may, out of concern for the privacy of the complainant, withhold the complainant’s 
identity while still identifying the type of litigation matter to be discussed). 7 While we generally 
defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would 
compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a 
reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2024-111; OML 2016-12. 
 
On July 19, our office issued a determination resolving a separate complaint filed by Mr. 
Superba which alleged that the notice for the Council’s February 6 executive session was 
insufficient where it included the topic “Litigation update” but did not identify the litigation 
matter to be discussed. OML 2024-139. As in OML 2024-139, we find here that the Council 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify in the notice for its June 11 meeting the 
litigation matters to be discussed in executive session. See OML 2024-168 (explaining that when 
a public body will discuss multiple litigation matters in an executive session it must “separately 
identify each litigation matter to be discussed, excluding any matters for which identification 
would have compromised the purpose for the executive session”).  
 
Relatedly, we find that the announcement prior to convening in executive session on June 
11 violated the Open Meeting Law where it failed to identify the litigation matters to be 
discussed and did not include a declaration that holding the discussion in open session may have 
a detrimental effect on the Council’s litigating position. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
 
Propriety of the June 11 executive session 
  
 As explained above, a public body may enter executive session for any of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, one of which is Purpose 3. The ten executive 
session purposes—as exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open 
to the public—are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
(2008); see also OML 2024-30. The public body bears the burden of demonstrating applicability 
of the claimed executive session purpose. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. 
of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009). Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or 
otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke 
Purpose 3. See Doherty v. Sch. Comm. of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. Sch. 
Comm. of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2019-12; OML 2012-05. 
 
 After reviewing, in camera, a redacted version of the minutes of the June 11 executive 
session and communicating with Attorney Degnan, we understand that the Council entered 
executive session for the purpose of discussing three matters. These matters were 1) pending 
litigation related to claims of sexual assault and sexual harassment; 2) pending litigation in Land 
Court; and 3) settlements related to cannabis impact fees where at least one cannabis company 
had threatened to sue the City. We find that these were permissible reasons to convene in 
executive session under Purpose 3.  
 
However, during its discussion of the litigation alleging sexual assault and harassment, 
the Council spent the majority of the time discussing matters that did not relate to litigation 
strategy. The minutes of the executive session have not been released to the public and we do not 
recount their content in detail. However, we note that during the executive session the Council 
discussed whether and how to implement various policies and procedures; concerns regarding a 
former employee and that individual’s departure from the City’s employ; and issues related to 
the operations of two City departments. We acknowledge that the task of managing the flow of 
conversation about all manner of public business can be complicated. Nevertheless, it 
is incumbent upon the public body to carefully monitor the subject matter of discussion when in 
executive session to ensure that topics do not stray from the lawful purpose for which the 
executive session was called. See OML 2024-105; OML 2021-80; OML 2010-6. We find that 
the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed matters in executive session on 
June 11 that were not appropriate for executive session and were not included on the notice for 
the June 11 meeting.  
 
Executive session minutes  
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session 
minutes “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety [for] . . . as long as 
publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, 
however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(f). Additionally, the Open Meeting Law requires that “[t]he public body, or its chair or 
designee, shall, at reasonable intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if . 
. . continued non-disclosure [is warranted].” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1).8 The result of such review 
“shall be announced at the body’s next meeting and such announcement shall be included in the 
minutes of that meeting.” Id. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
 
 
8 Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the Open Meeting Law, our office has found a quarterly review or 
a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2017-104; OML 2015-166; OML 2013-180. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 Councilor Vacon’s complaint alleges that “[t]he City council has not received minutes of 
Executive sessions for 5+ years.” In her request for further review of the complaint, Councilor 
Vacon further asserts that the Open Meeting Law does not authorize the City Solicitor to 
withhold executive session minutes from the Council. In response to the complaint, Attorney 
Degnan explained that the Council did not hold any executive sessions in 2020, and that with 
respect to six sets of minutes for executive sessions held in 2021, 2022, and 2023, four sets 
would be released without redactions and two sets would be released with redactions.  
 
Where the Open Meeting Law does not explicitly require that public body members 
“receive” executive session minutes we find no violation with respect to the allegation that the 
Council has not received executive session minutes. Furthermore, although the Open Meeting 
Law requires that public bodies create and maintain accurate minutes of their meetings, including 
executive sessions, it does not prohibit a public body from delegating that responsibility to an 
individual who is not a public body member. Additionally, the Open Meeting Law expressly 
allows for delegation of the responsibility to periodically review executive session minutes for 
release. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1) (“The public body, or its chair or designee, shall, at reasonable 
intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions . . . .”). However, we note that even if a 
public body delegates some or all of its responsibilities related to meeting minutes, the public 
body itself is ultimately responsible for its compliance with the Open Meeting Law. See, e.g., 
OML 2024-71 (“we note that ultimately it is the Board’s responsibility to ensure compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, not that of staff”); OML 2022-185 (“If staff resources are not 
available to create meeting notices or minutes, then public body members must take on this 
responsibility themselves to ensure compliance with the Law.”); OML 2013-123 (“While the 
certification forms must be submitted to and retained by the clerk, compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law’s certification provisions remains the responsibility of public bodies and public 
body members.”). We offer no opinion as to whether the Council has in fact delegated any of its 
responsibilities with respect to the creation, maintenance, or review of executive session minutes 
to the City Solicitor. See OML 2013-54 (explaining that “[t]he Open Meeting Law does not 
govern whether a public body can delegate its authority to [a] single member of the 
Commission” and declining to review whether the commission had improperly delegated its 
authority).    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify the litigation matters to be discussed in executive session on June 11. 
Additionally, we find that the Council violated the Law by failing to declare prior to convening 
in executive session that holding the discussions in open session may have a detrimental effect 
on the Council’s litigating position. Finally, we find that the Council violated the Law by 
discussing matters in executive session that were not appropriate for executive session and were 
not included on the notice for the June 11 meeting.  
 
We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the 
Law. Additionally, we order the Council to announce at its next open session meeting the 
specific litigation matters, or types of matters, discussed in executive session on June 11. Finally, 
===PAGE 6===
we order the Council to release the minutes of the June 11 executive session to the public within
30 days of the date of this letter. We note that the Council may redact portions of the minutes if
the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions to the Public Records Law applies;
however, the Council may not redact any portion of the minutes that record the discussions of
topics that were not appropriate for executive session and were not included on the notice. See
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(t); Dist. Atty. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395
Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (explaining that the Open Meeting Law constitutes "a statutory public
waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental bodies except
in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute"); OM 2021-709
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
Tessa R. Murphy-Romboletti, City Council President
(via email: |
Stephen Superba (via email:
Linda Vacon, City Councilor (via email:
Brenna Murphy McGee, City Clerk (via email: mcgeeb@holyoke.org)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
9 Questions or concerns regarding redactions made pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or the Public Records
Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's office. See OML
2024-119.
6