===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 20, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 173 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jonah Temple 
Deputy City Solicitor 
City of Newton 
100 Commonwealth Ave. 
Newton Centre, MA 02459 
 
jtemple@newtonma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Temple: 
 
This office received a complaint from Maryan Amaral of Citizens for Access, Inc., on 
August 5, 2024, alleging that the Off Leash Area Working Group (the “Group”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Newton 
Parks and Recreation Commission (the “Commission”) on May 8, and you responded on behalf 
of the Commission and the Commissioner of Newton’s Department of Parks, Recreation and 
Culture (the “Commissioner”) by letter dated May 24.
1  In her complaint, Ms. Amaral alleges 
that the Group is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and that it has failed to conduct 
itself as such. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Group is not a public body and therefore there was 
no violation of the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the response of the Commission and Commissioner, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed additional information forwarded to 
us by the complainant, including emails sent on June 14, August 4, August 5, and August 6.  We 
spoke with you by telephone on August 20.  We also communicated with you by email, and 
reviewed documents forwarded by you on August 30, including the 2007 ordinance discussed 
below and meeting minutes from 2009-2010. 
 
  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In 2007, the Newton Board of Aldermen (now known as 
the City Council) passed an ordinance providing for the designation of “Off-Leash Areas” where 
dogs could be unleashed (the “2007 Off-Leash Ordinance”).  The 2007 Off-Leash Ordinance 
created a two-year pilot program under which a municipal agency with care, custody and control 
of public land had authority to designate areas on such land as off-leash areas.  Under the 2007 
Off-Leash Ordinance, such a municipal agency had sole authority over land subject to its care, 
custody, and control, and could revoke the designation of an off-leash area at any time.  The 
2007 Off-Leash Ordinance also provided for the formation of the Dogs Off-Leash Advisory 
Committee (the “Committee”) to assist a custodial agency in its decisions.  Composition of the 
Committee was dictated by the 2007 Off-Leash Ordinance, requiring, for example, that it include 
four citizens of Newton to be appointed by the Board of Alderman.  The Committee was 
empowered to develop site selection criteria and to monitor the pilot program, among other 
duties.  By its own terms, the 2007 Off-Leash Ordinance was to expire two years after passage, 
unless terminated earlier or renewed.  The Committee met regularly during the two-year pilot 
program; it is believed that it last met in 2009.   
 
On August 9, 2010, the Board of Aldermen repealed the 2007 
 Off-Leash Ordinance in its 
entirety (if it had not already expired), and replaced it with the current ordinance (the “2010 Off-
Leash Ordinance”).  See Newton Ordinances § 3-30 (a) (updated 4-7-2022).  The 2010 Off-
Leash Ordinance provides that “in areas officially designated as a ‘Designated Off –Leash Area’ 
by the [Commissioner], a dog may be permitted off-leash under [certain] conditions, and subject 
to any additional rules, regulations, and restrictions that may from time to time be in effect for an 
off-leash area.”  Id.  The 2010 Off-Leash Ordinance also provides that the Commissioner, 
together with the director of planning and development (the “Director”), “shall establish site 
selection criteria for the identification of appropriate [off-leash] sites. . . .”  The 2010 Off-Leash 
Ordinance gives the Commissioner the authority to designate off-leash areas on public land 
under the control of the City.  Under the 2010 Off-Leash Ordinance, it is the Commissioner’s 
responsibility to designate off-leash areas and administer the off-leash program, subject to 
permission from the custodial agency.  The ordinance further provides that the Commissioner 
and Director “may appoint a group of interested persons to advise or otherwise assist them in 
their duties.”  Id. at § 3-30 (b).  In conformance with the 2010 Off-Leash Ordinance, the 
Commissioner appointed individuals to the Group to advise her on, among other things, site 
selection and operation of off-leash areas.  The Commission played no role in creation of the 
Group and has no interaction with it.  The Group does not make presentations to, or advise, the 
Commission or any other public body.  No new off-leash area has been designated since 2012.  
Since 2015, the Group has met on a quarterly basis, advising the Commissioner on maintenance 
of existing off-leash areas and other issues.  For years, the Group conducted open meetings, for 
which notice was posted and minutes were created.  The Group stopped keeping minutes in 
2017.  It stopped posting notice of its meetings sometime thereafter. 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The Law defines “public body,” in relevant part, as “a multiple member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  A “subcommittee” 
includes “any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public 
body.”  Id.  The Supreme Judicial Court recognized an exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s 
definition of “public body” in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover.  409 Mass. 232 
(1991).  In Connelly, the Court held that where an individual public official creates a committee 
to advise that person on a decision that he has the sole authority to make, that committee is not 
subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Connelly, 409 Mass, at 235.   
 
The complainant alleges that the Group is a subcommittee of the Commission.
2  
According to the information before us, however, the Commission did not create the Group.  
Rather, the Commissioner appointed the members of the Group, to advise her on such things as 
maintenance of off-leash areas.  The Group does not advise or make recommendations to the 
Commission.  For these reasons, we find that the Group is not a subcommittee of the 
Commission. 
 
Furthermore, we find t
 hat the Group fits within the Connelly exception and is not a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law.  The 2010 Off-Leash Ordinance now in effect enables 
the Commissioner and Director to “appoint a group of interested persons to advise or otherwise 
assist them in their duties,” just the kind of body contemplated by Connelly.  The Commissioner 
did just that when she appointed persons to the Group to advise her about selecting sites for dog 
parks and their operation, a matter within the Commissioner’s sole authority.  Because the Group 
plainly fits within the Connelly exception, we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
   
2 Ms. Amaral did not make this allegation in her complaint.  However, in correspondence to Newton Mayor 
Ruthanne Fuller dated May 8, Ms. Amaral alleges that the Group is a subcommittee of the Commission.  Generally, 
we will not review allegations not raised in a complaint.  Here, however, the argument was addressed in the 
Commission’s response. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Gro up is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the Group or with the Commission.  
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Maryan Amaral (via email: ) 
Newton City Clerk (via email: clerk@newtonma.gov) 
Mayor Ruthanne Fuller (via email: rfuller@newtonma.gov) 
 
 
This 
determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
