===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 29, 2020 
 
       OML 2021 - 2 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Carolyn Murray, Esq.  
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston MA 02110 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This Office received a complaint from Scott Nickerson on October 23, 2020, alleging that 
the Montague Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 26, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 15.1 In his complaint, Mr. Nickerson 
alleges that he did not receive a fair hearing regarding his application for a special permit at the 
Board’s July 29 meeting and that the Board’s roll call vote regarding his application was 
improper.2 The complaint also alleges that a member of the Board went off camera during a 
portion of the meeting.  
Following our review, find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a recording of the 
Board’s July 29 Zoom meeting.  
FACTS 
 The Board held its first virtual meeting on July 29 using the Zoom platform. Some 
members of the Board turned their video cameras on during the meeting, although others did not, 
including the Chair because he did not have a camera. The Board’s Clerk moderated the meeting, 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the motion to take a vote on Mr. Nickerson’s application was not properly made by 
Board members. We note that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
Accordingly, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
as the Chair experienced difficulty using the Zoom platform. As such, the Clerk assisted in 
recognizing speakers, muting and unmuting speakers, and calling the roll for roll call votes. At 
the beginning of the meeting the Clerk informed Mr. Nickerson, who joined the meeting a few 
minutes late, that the public hearing notice had been read aloud and that Board members were 
about to begin asking questions about his application for a special permit. Mr. Nickerson did not 
give an uninterrupted presentation about his application. Rather, Board members and members of 
the public asked Mr. Nickerson questions and he responded. During the question and answer 
session involving Mr. Nickerson, the Clerk muted the Chair for approximately twenty minutes. 
At the close of the question and answer session, the Board voted to deny Mr. Nickerson’s 
application.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board provided “adequate alternative means” for the public to observe its July 29  
virtual meeting.  
 As an initial matter, we must consider whether the Board provide “adequate alternative 
means” for the public to observe its July 29 virtual meeting, in compliance with Governor 
Baker’s Executive Order. On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily 
suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by 
the outbreak of the 2019 Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the 
Executive Order temporarily suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are 
physically accessible to the public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means 
of public access. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public 
access shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public 
access to the deliberations of the public body ... [enabling] the public to clearly follow the 
proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at § 1. All 
other provisions of the Open Meeting Law and regulations remain in effect.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that members of a public body who participate remotely 
be clearly audible to each other and the public. G. L. c. 30A, § 20(d); 940 CMR 29.10(4)(a). The 
Board held its first virtual meeting on July 29 using the Zoom platform. Although the Board 
acknowledges that the meeting was often disorganized, with participants sometimes interrupting 
each other, the video of the meeting demonstrates that all Board members were clearly audible to 
the observing public when speaking. The audio quality during the meeting was clear and not 
obfuscated. Therefore, we find that the Board provided adequate alternative means of access to 
the meeting via Zoom as the public could clearly hear the proceedings live. See OML 2020-156; 
OML 2020-161. To improve the flow of future virtual meetings, the Board voted in response to 
this complaint to undergo training regarding the Open Meeting Law, virtual meetings, and 
procedures to efficiently run a remote meeting. We commend the Board for taking this action to 
improve its virtual meetings.  
2. As the Open Meeting Law does not provide a right to public participation, we find no 
violation of the Open Meeting Law regarding the format of the Board’s hearing of 
Mr. Nickerson’s application.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 The complaint alleges that the Board did not provide adequate opportunity for Mr. 
Nickerson to present his application at the Board’s July 29 meeting. The Open Meeting Law 
does not require that a public body allow public participation, but rather provides that “[n]o 
person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). As such, the Law gives the chair 
of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting. See 
OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.3 As the Open Meeting Law leaves public 
participation to the discretion of the public body’s chair, we find that the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law in this respect. 
 Although the Open Meeting Law does not require that members of the public be 
permitted to speak or otherwise actively participate during a meeting, numerous laws in the 
Commonwealth require that a public hearing be held before the government takes certain action.4 
The specific procedures for notice and conduct of the public hearing are governed by the law 
requiring the hearing and such law may require opportunity for public comment. Because the 
Division of Open Government’s review only concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we do not review whether the Board adequately provided an 
opportunity for active, real-time participation by members of the public as may have been 
guaranteed by the separate law governing the particular type of public hearing at issue. See OML 
2020-114; Executive Order at Section 1.5   
3. The Board’s July 29 roll call vote regarding Mr. Nickerson’s application was proper.  
 The complaint also alleges that the Board’s roll call vote was improper. The Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations require that “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in 
which a member participates remotely must be by roll call vote.” 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). Even if 
a vote is unanimous, public bodies must conduct votes by roll call, by “calling off a list of 
names” in order to create a clear record of how each member voted. See 2016-132; OML 2015-
131. Neither the Open Meeting Law, nor the Attorney General’s regulations specify who should 
call the list of names during a roll call vote. Here, the Board’s Clerk called the full name of each 
member and each member audibly voted either “yes” or “no.”  We therefore find that the 
Board’s roll call vote was proper and did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
4. We encourage public bodies to use video technology during remote meetings, and 
decline to find a violation when only some members are visible when speaking.  
 Finally, we address the allegation that a Board member went off camera during part of 
the July 29 meeting. The Attorney General’s 2017 Open Meeting Law regulations regarding 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 See, e.g., G.L. c. 30A, § 2 (state agencies must hold a hearing prior to the adoption, amendment, or repeal of 
regulations); G.L. c. 114, § 38 (a Commission of health shall hold a hearing before a tomb, burial ground or 
cemetery is closed); G.L. c. 121A, § 6 (a local planning Commission shall hold a hearing on a proposed 
redevelopment project); G.L. c. 40A, § 15 (a local Commission of appeal shall hold a hearing on any zoning appeal, 
application or petition). 
5 Section 1 of the Executive Order provides that “[w]here allowance for active, real-time participation by members 
of the public is a specific requirement of a general or special law or regulation, or a local ordinance or by-law, 
pursuant to which the proceeding is conducted, any alternative means of public access must provide for such 
participation.” 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
remote participation state that “[w]hen video technology is in use, the remote participant shall be 
clearly visible to all persons present in the meeting location.” 940 CMR 29.10(6)(b). These 2017 
regulations contemplated a situation in which at least a quorum of the public body members, as 
well as members of the public, would attend a meeting at a physical meeting location, and one or 
more public body members could participate remotely if physical attendance at the meeting 
would be unreasonably difficult. See 940 CMR 29.10(4) and (5). The Executive Order allows 
public bodies to hold meetings at which some or all public body members attend remotely, 
and/or access to the public is provided via remote means rather than in-person. The Executive 
Order specifically allows a public body to provide public access to its meetings through 
“telephone, internet, or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology 
that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities 
are occurring.” Executive Order at § 1 (emphasis added). 
In light of the Coronavirus pandemic and the prevalence of remote meetings, as well as 
the Governor’s Order, the Attorney General encourages public bodies to use video technology 
whenever possible to enhance the ability of the public to follow the proceedings of a public body 
remotely. However, we are cognizant that some public body members may not have personal 
technology available to participate in a meeting by video, and that public body members who 
utilize video may need to step off camera briefly. A strict requirement that if video technology is 
in use all public body members must be visible on camera at all times could result in public 
bodies opting not to use video technology at all, which surely would not serve the Open Meeting 
Law’s transparency goals. Therefore, we decline to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law 
where, as here, video technology is generally in use for a meeting, but some members of the 
public body are not visible at all times.6 Nonetheless, the Attorney General recommends, as a 
best practice, that members of public bodies turn on their video cameras, especially while 
speaking, whenever possible.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Scott Nickerson (via e-mail:  
 Montague Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Zoning Board of Appeals Clerk Karen Casey-
 Chretien (via e-mail:  
 
6 As explained above, no matter what technology a public body uses, public body members must be clearly audible 
to each other and the public when speaking during virtual meetings. See Section 1.  

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 