===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.govlago 
July 18, 2012 
OML 2012 — 58 
Arthur D. Frank, Jr., Esq. 
209 Bedford Street, Suite 402 
Fall River, MA 02720 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Frank: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Patrick Higgins, dated November 15, 2011, 
alleging that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 
11, 2011 and the Board responded to the complaint by letter dated October 25, 2011. Our office 
received your response to the complaint on behalf of the Board on January 11, 2012. In his 
complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board adopted a new shell fish regulation during a 
September 13, 2011 meeting ("the meeting"), however this topic of discussion was not posted on 
the agenda for the meeting.' 
We reviewed the October 11, 2011 complaint; the Board's October 25, 2011 response; 
the November 15, 2011 letter from the complainant to our office requesting further review; and 
your January 11, 2012 response on behalf of the Board. In addition, we reviewed the agenda and 
the minutes for the meeting, along with a September 4, 2011 memorandum from Sergeant Daniel 
Lowney of the Swansea Police Department to local commercial shell fisherman. We also 
reviewed an October 20, 2011 letter from the complainant to the Board and a December 1, 2011 
letter from the complainant to our office. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Mr. Kenneth 
Furtado, who was the chair of the Board at the time of the meeting, on June 21, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing a topic 
during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because the chair did not 
reasonably anticipate that discussion on this topic would occur. 
The complaint additionally alleges that the Board did not hold a public hearing regarding the adoption of a new 
shell fish regulation. The Division of Open Government only enforces and interprets the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not govern when a public body must hold a public hearing; 
therefore we decline to review this allegation. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On 
September 4, 2011, Sgt. Lowney issued a memorandum to commercial shell fishermen titled, 
"Re: Regulations Update & Reminder" (hereinafter "the memorandum"). Sgt. Lowney sent a 
courtesy copy of the memorandum to Chief of Police George Arruda, Town Administrator James 
Kern, and to the Board. In the memorandum, Sgt. Lowney stated that due to information that he 
had learned about certain commercial shell fishermen "knowingly and routinely exceeding their 
catch limits by substantial amounts," the police department was establishing new procedures for 
inspection and enforcement. Sgt. Lowney stated that since it was not feasible to discipline 
individual offenders, the only remedy was "to become stricter with our enforcement when 
possible and to adjust some of the regulations." Sgt. Lowney further stated that the proposed 
procedural changes already existed in the regulations, with the exception of the requirement that 
fishermen should begin storing their catches in "the standard orange plastic bushel baskets," 
rather than the various types of containers that shell fishermen had previously used to store their 
catch. Sgt. Lowney stated that the Swansea Police Department would begin enforcement of the 
new requirements on October 1, 2011 and offenders would risk forfeiting their catch, their vessel 
and equipment, and face the loss of their license, fmes, and possible arrest for violating 
Massachusetts shell fishing laws. 
On September 13, 2011, the Board convened a meeting in open session. The posted 
agenda for the meeting agenda contained a list of topics titled "Items 1- 9." Among the topics 
listed for discussion was "Item 8- Old Business," which did not list any sub-topics. The agenda 
did not identify the memorandum or Sgt. Lowney's new procedures for commercial shell 
fishermen as topics for discussion. 
According to the meeting minutes, Selectman Scott Ventura raised the matter of Sgt. 
Lowney's memorandum under "Item 8- Old Business." Both Sgt. Lowney and Chief Arruda 
were present during the meeting. Sgt. Lowney asked the Board to support his decision to require 
shell fishermen to change from burlaps to orange bushel baskets beginning on October 1, 2011. 
Selectman Ventura stated that his only issue was implementing a change in enforcement in the 
middle of a shell fishing season that was scheduled to end on November 1, 2011. Sgt. Lowney 
responded to this concern by explaining that the change would permit shell fish wardens to 
"adequately and quickly visually monitor the catch." He also noted that most towns already 
require bushel baskets. Selectman Ventura then agreed with Sgt. Lowney's recommendation. 
Selectman Robert Marquis stated that he supported Sgt. Lowney's recommendations; however, 
he felt it was appropriate to discuss the topic at the annual public hearing during which rules and 
regulations are established. Chief Arruda responded in disagreement, and requested that the 
Board support Sgt. Lowney's recommendations. 
Selectman Ventura then stated that he would "feel more confident" if the Board voted on 
the issue. Former Chairman Furtado stated that he viewed the request as a procedural change, 
rather than a regulatory amendment. Town Administrator Kern recommended that the Board 
"amend the regulations effective October 1st." Selectman Ventura then made a motion to require 
that "any commercial harvest taken be housed in the orange bushel baskets," which was 
seconded by former Chairman Furtado. Selectman Marquis voted against the motion. The 
Board approved the motion by a 2-1 vote. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
During our telephone conversation, former Chairman Furtado stated that while drafting 
the meeting's agenda along with Town Administrator Kern, and during the subsequent period 
leading up to the meeting, he was unaware that Selectman Ventura would discuss Sgt. Lowney's 
memorandum during the meeting. Moreover, he stated that he did not recall receiving a copy of 
the memorandum before the meeting. Former Chairman Furtado suggested that Selectman 
Ventura likely raised the memorandum under "Old Business" because the Board's standard 
practice was to discuss general correspondence received by the Board during that phase of the 
meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices "shall be printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time, and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur during a meeting, but the chair does need to list those topics 
that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. See OML 2011-36; OML 2011-23; OML 
2011-13.2  We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body's discussion. OML 2011-44. 
Because Former Chairman Furtado did not receive a copy of the memorandum before the 
meeting and did not otherwise anticipate that the memorandum would be discussed during the 
meeting, the Board was not required to list this topic in its meeting notice. Furthermore, a public 
body may consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice if it is a topic 
that the chair did not reasonably anticipate at least 48 hours before the meeting. 3  We therefore 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing the shell fishing topic at 
its September 13, 2011 meeting. We note, however, that public bodies are encouraged not to 
discuss or vote on items that arise after notice is posted for a meeting, particularly when the topic 
is controversial in nature, if the topic can be postponed until a later date and added to a properly 
posted meeting notice. OML 2011-13. 
As a fmal matter, we note that the topic "Old Business" on the Board's agenda, under 
which Sgt. Lowney's memorandum was discussed, was insufficiently detailed for purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law. A boilerplate topic such as "Old Business" does not give the public 
sufficient notice of the topics that will be discussed at that particular meeting. Former Chairman 
Furtado has advised our office, however, that since the beginning of 2012, the Board has taken 
steps to improve the specificity of topics listed in its meeting notices, including adding topics 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3  See www.mass.cov/ago/openmeeting: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is 
proposed after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its posting to provide the public 
with as much notice as possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
such as "Correspondence Received by the Board," and revising posted notices whenever 
necessary. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing a topic during its meeting that was not included in the meeting notice because 
the chair did not reasonably anticipate that such a discussion would occur. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter 
to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hatme Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Patrick Higgins 
Swansea Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 