===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 30, 2018 
OML 2018-11 
Michael J. Gagne 
Town Administrator 
Town of Mattapoisett 
16 Main Street 
P.O. Box 435 
Mattapoisett, MA 02739 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Gagne: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on November 15 alleging that the 
Mattapoisett Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 12, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 10.2 The complaint alleges that the notices for the 
Board's September 26 and October 10 meetings lacked sufficient detail because they did not 
contain the date and time of posting by the Town Clerk, or the purposes for executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to state on its September 26 notice the specific subject that would be discussed during the 
executive session. We find no evidence, however, that the Board violated the law in the other 
ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board's September 26 and 
October 10 meetings, as well as the executive session minutes from the Board's September 26 
meeting. Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on November 27, and with the complainant 
by telephone on November 28.3 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On September 22, the Board posted notice with the Town 
Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 26 at 6:30 P.M. Town Administrator 
Michael Gagne provided this office with a copy of the notice that was posted and stamped by the 
Town Clerk; the date and time of posting was September 22 at 2:40 P.M. The notice listed 
several topics, including Executive Session "for the purpose of discussion of ongoing litigation 
and contract negotiations relative to non-union personnel." 
The September 26 meeting was held as planned. The Board approved meeting minutes, 
appointed an individual to the Agricultural Commission, approved an Aquaculture license, and 
chose a Special Fall Town Meeting date. The Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll call 
to convene in executive session "for discussion relative to on-going litigation and contract 
negotiations relative to Non-Union personnel." Because the Board has not publicly released the 
minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in detail here. However, we 
note that the Board discussed the possibility of a settlement agreement in the Greene case, and 
salary considerations with respect to the Fire Chiefs contract. 
On October 5, the Board posted notice with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on 
Tuesday, October 10 at 6:30 P.M. Town Administrator Gagne provided this office with a copy 
of the notice that was posted and stamped by the Town Clerk; the date and time of posting was 
October 5 at 3:17 P.M. The notice listed several topics, including Executive Session "for the 
purpose of discussion on ongoing litigation." 
The October 10 meeting was held as planned, however, the Board did not enter executive 
session. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. 
The list of topics shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L, c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in 
open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attornev for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Way land. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper"). This level of detail about the executive session topic must 
also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-72. 
One of the ten executive session purposes permits a public body to enter executive 
session "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel 
or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). Another purpose for executive session permits a public 
body "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting 
may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the 
chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
The complaint alleges that both the September 26 and October 10 meeting notices 
concerning the executive session topics lacked sufficient detail. We find that the September 26 
meeting notice was not sufficiently detailed because the notice failed to identify the non-union 
personnel with which it was negotiating and the litigation matter it planned to discuss. These 
additional details would have provided the public with an understanding of the specific subject of 
the executive session discussion. The Board does not suggest that inclusion of such information 
would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. Although not raised in the 
complaint, we remind the Board that it must also identify the nonunion personnel with which it is 
negotiating and the litigation matter it plans to discuss, in the verbal statement made before 
entering executive session, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(b)(2), (3); OML 2017-53; OML 2016-12; OML 2013-151; OML 2013-91. 
Because the Board did not convene in executive session on October 10, we find no 
violation with respect to the sufficiency of the executive session topic listed on that notice. 
When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot 
violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would have been 
insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 2015-63; 
OML 2014-81. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the meeting notice did not contain "the date and time it 
was posted by the municipal clerk." The date and time that the notice is posted must be 
conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Town Manager 
Gagne provided this office with copies of the notices that were posted and stamped by the Town 
Clerk. Thus, we find no violation of the Open Meeting law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed notice for its September 26 meeting. With respect to the 
remaining allegations, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We order 
the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Mattapoisett Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 