===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
	 (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 	
May 6, 2013 
	 www.mass.govlago 
OML 2013 - 56 
Mary Ellen Lannon 
Office of the Town Clerk 
71 Mt. Vernon Street 
Winchester, MA 01890 
Dear Ms. Lannon: 
This office received a complaint from George Nowell, on or about April 2, 2012, alleging 
that the Winchester Town Manager Advisory Recycling Committee (the "Committee") violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that the Committee is a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, but has failed to follow the Law's requirements to 
post notice and hold open meetings. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
or about March 22, 2012. The Committee responded by letter dated March 27, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the March 22, 2012 complaint filed with Acting Town 
Manager Mary Ellen Lannon'; the Acting Town Manager's March 27, 2012 response; and the 
April 2, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed a letter from the Acting Town 
Manager, addressed to our office and dated April 24, 2012, as well as the minutes of the Board 
of Selectmen's November 14, 2011 meeting. Finally, we interviewed the Acting Town Manager 
by telephone on July 23, 2012. 
FACTS 
On November 14, 2011, Mary Ellen Lannon, serving as the Acting Town Manager, 
provided a report to the Board of Selectmen (the "Board") during its regular meeting. During 
that report, Ms. Lannon explained that she had appointed six individuals to a Town Manager 
Advisory Recycling Committee. She further explained that the charge of the Committee is to 
"work cooperatively with Senior Management as well as the Department of Public Works staff to 
assess methods of trash management from both a financial and environmental perspective." The 
Committee would "analyze the collection data that has previously been provided to the group of 
volunteers, research benchmark communities and provide a cost benefit analysis on several 
1  For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
C) 
===PAGE 2===
options to increase recycling percentage." According to the meeting minutes, Ms. Lannon then 
"requested the Board's support for the formation of the committee." The Board voted 
unanimously "[t]hat the Board of Selectmen support the formation of the Transfer Station 
Advisory Recycling Committee."2  
The Committee has been meeting since December 2011, and has not posted notices or 
held open meetings. In a letter dated April 24, 2012, Ms. Lannon writes that "I consulted with 
Town of Winchester's Town Attorney, Mr. Wade Welch and he concurred that the Town 
Manager Advisory Committee is not subject to [the] open meeting law." In speaking with our 
office, Ms. Lannon explained that although the Committee has a defined membership, the 
Committee has no quorum requirement and takes no votes. Ms. Lannon appointed the 
Committee members to collect data on trash management and advise the Town Manager and the 
Board on its findings. It has not produced, nor is it expected to produce, a written report or any 
other formal recommendation to the Board. 
DISCUSSION 
The issue in this complaint is whether the Committee is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. "Public body" is defined, in relevant part, as "a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "subcommittee" 
includes "any multiple-member body created to advise or make recommendations to a public 
body." Id. Note, however, that the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court has held that where 
an individual public official creates an informal committee to advise that person on a decision 
that he or she has the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover,  409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991). 
Here, the Acting Town Manager created the Committee, and then presented it to the 
Board. We are not clear as to the significance of the Board's vote to "support the formation of 
the Committee—whether that vote formally established the Committee or merely acknowledged 
the Acting Town Manager's action to establish the Committee. Thus, it is unclear whether the 
Connelly  exception applies to the Committee, as it is not clear whether the Acting Town 
Manager created the Committee solely to advise her, or whether it was created by the Board. 
We need not decide the question, however, because we find that the Committee is not an 
entity empowered to act collectively, thus it is not a public body. To determine whether a 
multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors 
we consider: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of "public 
body;" 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose."3  
2  The Committee is referred to by different names, including the "Town Manager Advisory Recycling Committee" 
and the "Transfer Station Advisory Recycling Committee." We believe these to be the same entity. 
3  See OML 2010-1. Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Committee is within Government, as it was created by the'Acting Town Manager, 
and it serves a public purpose, namely collecting and analyzing data on municipal waste 
management. However, the Committee is not a body empowered to act collectively. The 
Committee has no quorum requirement and takes no votes. The Committee serves an 
administrative function in aiding the Acting Town Manager and the Board by compiling data and 
providing information to the Town. The Committee was not empowered with specific decision 
making or policy advisory authority, however, and does not make any formal recommendations 
to a public body. 
As a final matter, we address the Acting Town Manager's assertion in her March 27, 
2012 letter that "advisory committees are not subject to the Open Meeting Law." It is true that 
certain advisory committees that fall under the Connelly exception are not subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. However, many advisory committees are public bodies. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (a 
"subcommittee" includes "any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body"). Our determination that this entity is not a public body rests 
not on its advisory function, but on that fact that it does not take any collective action. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. We 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Nowell 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 