===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
March 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 26 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michele E. Randazzo 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Paul McCarthy on November 10, 2022, alleging 
that the Brimfield Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 31, 2022, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 6, 2022.1 The complaint alleges that the 
Board discussed topics during its August 29 meeting that were not listed on the meeting notice 
and threatened to reveal details from a prior executive session discussion.
  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
posted an insufficiently specific notice. We do not find a violation of the Law in the other ways 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response 
to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the 
meeting notice and minutes from August 29, as well as video recordings of meetings that took 
place on June 27, July 5, August 15, and August 29.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During its June 27 meeting, the Board announced that it 
would be entering executive session on June 30 with Police Chief Charles Kuss to discuss his 
pending retirement. During its July 5 meeting, the Board announced that Chief Kuss would 
remain on duty until November of that year when he would retire.  
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
2 The August 29 meeting is most relevant to the discussion and can be found here: 
https://brimfieldma.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=cd9fcedb-a85a-4552-8093-65f379cfc65a 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on August 29 meeting and listed, 
among other topics, “Disclosure by Non-Elected Municipal Employee of Financial Interest and 
Determination by Appointing Authority, Pursuant G.L. Chapter 268A Section 19.” During the 
meeting on August 29, Police Chief Charles Kuss and Fire Chief Don Contois appeared before 
the Board. Chief Kuss explained that on guidance from the State Ethics Commission, the chiefs 
needed a determination from the Board to allow them to continue working paid security details at 
the Brimfield Flea Market—a six-day event—as they had done for many prior years. In response, 
the Board expressed concern that Chief Kuss was not completing tasks that were currently 
assigned to him, including several long-outstanding public records requests and preparation of 
meeting minutes from a committee he served on, and questioned how he would complete them 
ahead of his retirement and work substantial additional hours at the Flea Market. Chief Kuss 
explained that the Flea Market spanned two work weeks and that he was contracted to work 35 
hours per week for the Town as police chief, which he could fulfill over just a few days, thus 
leaving full days to work detail at the Flea Market without interfering with his contracted work 
for the Town. The discussion at times became heated, with Board members expressing 
frustration over their relationship with Chief Kuss and concerns about lack of progress on 
previously discussed responsibilities. At one point, one Board member proposed to release 
minutes from an executive session on June 30, when the Board met with Chief Kuss and 
discussed expectations and tasks to be completed before his retirement. 
 Ultimately, the Board voted unanimously to allow Fire Chief Contois to continue 
working paid details at the Flea Market. There was no motion or vote regarding approval for 
Police Chief Kuss to do the same. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice 48 hours prior to a meeting 
and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics for discussion with “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body’s discussion. See OML 2014-42.
3 Where a public body’s discussion naturally flows from 
its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the 
discussion that occurred. See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a 
discussion, only that it identify the anticipated discussion topic with sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2019-102; OML 2017-186; OML 2014-38. 
 The complaint alleges that the Board discussed topics that were not listed on the August 
29 
meeting notice. We find that the discussion focused on the Board’s concern over lack of 
progress on outstanding tasks assigned to Chief Kuss, was directly related to and flowed from its 
consideration of whether to approve him working additional paid details at the Flea Market. We 
acknowledge Chief Kuss’s assertion that hours worked at the Flea Market would be in addition 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
to—not instead of—his contracted hours working as Police Chief for the Town and therefore the 
Flea Market details would not directly impact his ability to complete the assigned tasks. 
Nonetheless, it was clear that the Board viewed the matters as directly related and was concerned 
that work at the Flea Market would interfere with Chief Kuss’s ability to complete his assigned 
work. Therefore, we are satisfied that the Board’s discussion of outstanding work responsibilities 
naturally flowed from its consideration of the financial interest disclosure topic.  
Nonetheless, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the topic 
list
ed on the notice for its August 29 meeting, “Disclosure by Non-Elected Municipal Employee 
of Financial Interest and Determination by Appointing Authority, Pursuant G.L. Chapter 268A 
Section 19,” was insufficiently specific to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2019-102; OML 
2017-186; OML 2014-38. Without more, a reasonable member of the public could not have read 
the topic and understood that the anticipated discussion would relate to Chief Kuss and Chief 
Contois working paid details at the Brimfield Flea Market.
4 Accordingly, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted an insufficiently specific notice for its August 29 
meeting. 
 Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board improperly proposed releasing minutes of its 
June
 30 executive session with Chief Kuss. Executive session minutes may be withheld from 
disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has 
been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed 
unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law applies to 
withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. Id. Although the Open Meeting Law allows 
public bodies to keep executive session discussions confidential for a period of time, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that public body members keep topics discussed in executive 
session confidential prior to the approval and release of the executive session minutes nor does 
the law impose penalties for members’ failure to do so.  Therefore, the disclosure of information 
or matters discussed in executive session or the release of executive session minutes sooner than 
required will not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-91; OML 
2011-29; OML Declination 6-23-22 (Monterey Select Board).  Accordingly, we find no violation 
when the Board proposed releasing executive session minutes from June 30.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted an insufficiently specific meeting notice. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our 
office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
4 Chief Kuss apparently was aware that the listed discussion topic pertained to his own Disclosure by Non-Elected 
Municipal Employee of Financial Interest, and he was present at the meeting prepared to discuss the request. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Mary L. Nguyen 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Paul McCarthy (via e-mail: ) 
 Brimfield Town Clerk (via e-mail: TownClerk@brimfieldma.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
