===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
January 31, 2019
OML 2019-7
Brian Riley, Esq.
KP Law, P.C.
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney Riley:
This office received two complaints from Steven Ballard on July 6 and July 9, 2018, 
alleging that the Boxborough Town Administrator Interview Committee (the “Committee”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed 
with the Committee on or about April 23 and April 25, 2018, respectively, and you responded 
to the complaints, on behalf of the Committee, in a letter dated May 8, 2018. In his 
complaints, Mr. Ballard alleges that the Committee’s March 12, 2018 meeting minutes lacked 
the requisite information and detail and were not approved in a timely manner.1 Mr. Ballard 
also alleges that, during that meeting, the Committee failed to comply with the procedural 
requirements for convening an executive session. Finally, Mr. Ballard alleges that the 
Committee improperly discussed interview questions during its March 26, 2018 executive 
session.2
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely approve its March 12, 2018 meeting minutes and by improperly discussing a 
topic in executive session on March 26, 2018. However, we find no violation with respect to 
the other allegations cited in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaints, the Committee’s response to the complaints, and the complaints filed
1 Mr. Ballard alleges that the minutes are a combined document of both the open and executive sessions.
2 In his April 23, 2018 complaint filed with the Board, Mr. Ballard alleges that the Committee failed to post 
notice of its January 29, 2018 meeting and that the minutes of the meeting are insufficiently detailed. The Board 
approved those meeting minutes during its March 12, 2018 meeting. Accordingly, any allegation concerning the 
meeting and/or the minutes would have been discoverable, at the latest, within 30 days of the date of the 
minutes’ approval, or by April 11, 2018. Because this complaint was filed with the Committee on April 23, 
2018, we find the complaint to be untimely and we decline to review it. See OML Declination 7-2-18 
(Pembroke Planning Board).

===PAGE 2===
with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and open and 
executive session minutes of the Committee’s March 12, 2018 and March 26, 2018 meetings.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) appointed the 
Committee to assist in the selection of a new Town Administrator. The Committee was 
charged with a preliminary review of the candidates to interview for the purpose of compiling 
a list of final candidates to recommend to the Board for its consideration. The Committee met 
several times over the course of several months, beginning in January 2018, before it made its 
recommendations to the Board and was disbanded on April 2, 2018.
During its March 12, 2018 meeting, the Committee convened a meeting, in part, to 
enter executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8) (“Purpose 8”) to conduct an initial 
review of the candidates. According to the meeting minutes, the Committee approved a vote, 
by roll call, “to adjourn to executive session, MGL Chapter 39B, Section 23B #8: To hold an 
initial screening (including interviews if they are part of the initial screening process) by a 
preliminary screening committee or a subcommittee appointed by a governmental body of 
candidates for employment because an open meeting would have a detrimental effect in 
obtaining qualified candidates, and to adjourn immediately afterward.”3 At the conclusion of 
the executive session, the minutes state that the “Meeting adjourned: 2:30 p.m.”
Following this meeting, the Committee met four additional times, on March 26, March 
27, March 28 and April 2, 2018, before being disbanded. During its March 26, 2018 meeting, 
the Committee again convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8. This time, the 
Committee reviewed interview questions and determined the order in which the Committee 
would ask them to the candidates. The Committee then conducted two interviews before 
adjourning the meeting.
At the time this complaint was filed on April 25, 2018, the Committee had not yet 
approved its March 12, 2018 meeting minutes. The Committee’s chair revised the minutes in 
response to this complaint. The Board then approved the revised meeting minutes, a 
document consisting of both the open and executive sessions, on April 30, 2018. At the time 
of their approval, the Board also publicly released the executive session portion of the 
minutes.
DISCUSSION
A public body may enter executive, or closed, session, provided that it has first 
convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into 
the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Under Purpose 8, the law allows a public body to enter
3 This citation denotes an earlier version of the Open Meeting Law. The current version appears at Chapter 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Like the current version of the law, which we apply here, the previous version provided that a public 
body may enter executive session for the same purpose. See G.L. c. 39, § 23B(8) (repealed).
2
> 1 1 1 ilillll^

===PAGE 3===
executive session to “consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a 
preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall 
not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). The law defines “Preliminary Screening” as, “the initial stage of screening 
applicants conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose 
of providing to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or 
interview.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes 
must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2).
I. The Committee Failed to Timely Approve its March 12, 2018 Meeting 
Minutes.
The complaint alleges that the Committee’s March 12, 2018 meeting minutes are 
insufficient and contain both the open and executive session discussions in one document.4 
Because the minutes were in draft form at the time this complaint was filed, we decline to 
review their sufficiency.5 See OML 2014-62 (“A public body may revise draft minutes at any 
point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail”).6 The minutes were not 
approved until after this complaint was filed, on April 30, 2018, however, thus we find that 
the Committee failed to approve the minutes in a timely manner. The Attorney General’s 
Open Meeting Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three 
public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show 
good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Following its March 12 meeting, the 
Committee met four additional times within 30 days. The Committee should have approved
4 While the minutes may be a combined document, they should accurately distinguish between open and 
executive session so that they may be segregated if a request is made and the executive session minutes are 
withheld from disclosure. See OML 2016-26. Here, the issue is moot as the Board publicly released both 
portions of the minutes simultaneously.
5 We note that the Committee’s discussion of the candidates should be more detailed in the minutes, including 
identifying the candidates and a summary of the discussion of each candidate. See OML 2012-106 (minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could 
read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred). We encourage the Board to revise the 
minutes again to include these important details.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
the March 12 meeting minutes by April 11, 2018. See 2018-115; OML 2018-111. 
Accordingly, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve 
those minutes.
II. The Committee Complied with the Procedural Requirements for Convening an
Executive Session on March 12, 2018.
The complaint also alleges that, based on a review of the draft March 12, 2018 
meeting minutes, the Committee failed to comply with the procedural requirements for 
convening an executive session. Based on our review of the approved meeting minutes from 
the Committee’s March 12, 2018 meeting, we conclude that the Committee complied with the 
procedural requirements for convening in executive session. The Committee convened first in 
open session and announced the executive session with a sufficient amount of detail, 
including the statutory purpose and the declaration that having the discussion in open session 
would be detrimental to the Committee’s ability to obtain qualified candidates. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(8); see also G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b) (before entering the executive session, the chair 
must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair 
must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the 
executive session). The Committee properly approved a roll call vote to convene in executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).
The complainant also alleges that the Committee failed take a roll call vote to adjourn 
the meeting at the conclusion of the executive session. Although taking a vote is practical 
way to collectively end a meeting, it is not a requirement of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The Committee properly indicated in open session that it would adjourn 
immediately following its executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Accordingly, we find 
no violation of the law.
III. The Committee Improperly Discussed Interview Questions in Executive
Session on March 26. 2018,
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee discussed interview questions during 
an executive session held on March 26, 2018 pursuant to Purpose 8. Here, we agree that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing interview questions in executive 
session under Purpose 8.7 See OML 2016-105 (“The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies 
to convene in Purpose 8 in order to undertake two activities, to “consider” or to “interview.”) 
The Committee was neither conducting interviews during this discussion, nor was it 
considering applicants, as the formulation of questions occurs before each individual 
applicant is being evaluated by the Committee. IcL Because the minutes have already been 
publicly released, we order no further relief.
7 We also note the insufficiency of these meeting minutes because they lack a summary of the interviews held 
during that meeting. We encourage the Board to revise the minutes accordingly.
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to timely approve its March 12, 2018 meeting minutes and by improperly 
discussing a topic in executive session on March 26, 2018. Because the Committee has been 
disbanded, we order the immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements to any 
public bodies established by the Board in the future, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerelv.
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Steven Ballard, Esq.
Boxborough Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
