===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 7, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 186 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Angela Dolan 
Chair, Swansea Free Public Library Board of Trustees 
adolan@swanseama.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Dolan: 
This letter addresses two complaints our office received from Patrick Higgins, alleging 
that the Swansea Free Public Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
around July 5, 2023, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by email on July 18, 2023.1  
That complaint alleges that the Board failed to properly respond to a request from the 
complainant for executive session meeting minutes when it did not review the requested minutes 
during a meeting of the Board.  The second complaint was filed with the Board on or around 
September 18, and you responded, on behalf of the Board, on October 4.  That complaint alleges 
that the Board posted an insufficient notice for a meeting held on August 23, or discussed 
matters not included on the notice for that meeting, where the notice stated that the Board would 
conduct interviews of two library director candidates but did not specify that the Board would 
deliberate and vote to offer a job to either candidate.   
After review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in any of the 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination we reviewed the complaints, the Board’s responses, 
and relevant meeting notices and minutes. 
The first complaint pertains to several requests by the complainant for executive session 
minutes and alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the Board’s Chair, in 
coordination with the Town Administrator, reviewed the requested minutes to determine if they 
could be publicly released.  The complaint alleges that “[t]he open meeting law requires the 
public body, at a properly posted meeting, to discuss whether or not the requested executive 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2023. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
session minutes are ripe for release.”  The Open Meeting Law contains no such requirement.  
Rather, the Open Meeting Law states: 
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session 
or any portion thereof, the body shall respond to the request within 10 days 
following receipt and shall release any such minutes not covered by an exemption 
under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body has not performed a 
review pursuant to paragraph (1), the public body shall perform the review and 
release the nonexempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s 
next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. A public body shall not assess a 
fee for the time spent in its review. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the review be conducted 
during a meeting of a public body, and certainly does not prohibit a town administrator from 
assisting in the review, which the complainant also takes issue with.  Instead, the requirement 
that the review occur “not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs” 
establishes a time frame for conducting the review and in fact contemplates that the review may 
not occur during a meeting at all, since the review must occur within 30 days even if no meeting 
is held within that time.
2  Id.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when 
the Chair, along with the Town Administrator, reviewed the requested executive session minutes 
outside of a meeting. 
 The second complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s August 25 meeting stated 
that
 the Board would interview two named candidates for the library director position but did not 
indicate that “this public body would be deliberating and voting to offer a job to either 
candidate.”  Meeting notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The listing of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member 
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's 
discussion.  See OML 2018-7; OML 2015-35.
3  Where a public body’s discussion naturally 
flows from its consideration of the posted agenda topic, the notice was sufficient to inform the 
public of the discussion that occurred.  See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44; OML 2014-38. We 
have consistently stated that it is reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and 
hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed on a meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law 
does not require that the notice separately indicate the possibility of a vote.  See OML 2022-239; 
OML 2021-153; OML 2019-36; OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75.   
 Here the notice for the Board’s August 25 meeting informed the public that the Board 
woul
d conduct “Final Interviews for Library Director,” and listed the two candidates to be 
interviewed.  We find that discussion of the candidates following the interviews, including a 
motion and vote to recommend one of the candidates for the library director position,
4 was 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
4 There is disagreement as to whether the Board voted to hire one of the candidates or merely voted to recommend 
one of the candidates to the Board of Selectmen for hiring.  We need not resolve this dispute as either action would 
have been permissible.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
encompassed within the topic as listed on the meeting notice.  Therefore, the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
  For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board  did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged in either complaint.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 Swansea Town Clerk (via email: dpelland@town.swansea.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
