===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 27, 2018 
OML 2018- 161
Joslin Murphy, Brookline Town Counsel 
Office of Town Counsel 
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445-6863
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Murphy:
This office received a complaint from Brooks Ames on September 10, 2018, alleging 
that the Brookline Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 25, 2018, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, in a letter dated July 18, 2018. In his 
complaint, Mr. Ames alleges that the Board failed to identify the subject of an executive 
session held on May 15, 2018 and failed to conduct a periodic review of its executive session 
minutes.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to conduct a periodic review of its executive session minutes at reasonable intervals. 
However, we find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of an executive session topic 
listed on the Board’s May 15, 2018 meeting notice. In reaching a determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed a redacted version of the Board’s May 
15, 2018 executive session minutes and spoke with you by telephone on December 6, 2018.1
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On May 15, 2018, the Board convened an executive 
session to discuss several topics. One topic listed on the notice and announced in open 
session was an executive session, “[f]or the purpose of conducting a strategy session in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel.” Prior to posting notice for this 
meeting, Board counsel had contacted our office for advice about the sufficiency of executive
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter.

===PAGE 2===
session topics when discussing strategy with respect to negotiating a separation agreement 
with nonunion personnel. Our office provided her with general guidance, including a prior 
determination on that issue, OML 2015-181.
As of the date this complaint was made, the Board’s last periodic review of its 
executive session minutes was conducted in 2016. In response to this complaint, the Board 
conducted such a review and pledged to review its executive session minutes more frequently 
going forward.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body may enter into executive session for 
any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
(“Purpose 2”). Unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for the executive session, public 
bodies should state in their notice the name of the specific nonunion personnel with whom 
they will be negotiating. See OML 2015-181; OML 2015-63; OML 2013-97.2 While we 
generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the inclusion of such information 
would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public body must be able to 
demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14.
The complainant asserts that the Board failed to publicly identify the name of the 
nonunion personnel with whom it was negotiating. The Board responds that publicly 
identifying the employee with whom it was negotiating a separation agreement would have 
been detrimental to its negotiating position with that employee and would thus defeat the 
purpose for its May 15, 2018 executive session. The Board was concerned that publicly 
announcing the employee’s name might have kept the employee from coming to the 
bargaining table. Given the sensitive nature of negotiating an employee’s separation, we find 
that the Board was justified in noticing the executive session topic without identifying the 
employee by name. See OML 2015-181 (a public body was justified in noticing an executive 
session topic without identifying the employee by name when negotiating a separation agreement 
with the employee). Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
The complainant also asserts that the Board has failed to conduct a periodic review of 
its executive session minutes at reasonable intervals. The Board agreed and pledged to 
conduct such reviews more frequently in the future. Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes 
of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public 
records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. See id. Public 
bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals 
to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although 
the law does not define “reasonable interval,” we have concluded that, where a public body 
waited years to review its executive session minutes, it violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2015-164. Here, because the Board had not conducted a periodic review of its 
executive session minutes in approximately two years, since 2016, it violated the Open 
Meeting Law in this regard. See OML 2015-164. We commend the Board’s commitment to 
complying with this requirement going forward.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to conduct a periodic review of its executive session minutes at reasonable 
intervals. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Hanne Rush
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brooks Ames
Brookline Select Board
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
