===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 11, 2017 
OML 2017-158 
Jennifer Modica 
Uxbridge Board of Selectmen 
21 South Main Street 
Uxbridge, MA 01569 
RE; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Modica: 
This office received a complaint from Gerald Baker, Jr. on September 18, alleging that 
the Uxbridge Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 19, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 24.2 In his complaint, Mr. Baker alleges 
that a quorum of the Board deliberated during an Uxbridge Conservation Commission meeting 
without properly posting notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice and minutes of the Conservation Commission's June 19 meeting. Finally, we spoke 
with Ms. Modica by telephone on September 28. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body; thus three 
members constitute a quorum. Two Board members, Jeffrey Shaw and Jim Hogan, also serve on 
the Uxbridge Conservation Commission. During the Conservation Commission's June 19 
meeting, another Board member, Jennifer Modica, attended to discuss issues relative to Pout 
Pond. Ms. Modica is also a member of the Pout Pond Recreation Committee. The Conservation 
Commission oversees the Pout Pond Recreation Committee in accordance with the Town 
bylaws, however the Committee is self-funded. 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
In general, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a), (b). The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy 
surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. BOA, § 18. A 
deliberation is "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is, generally, a simple majority of the members of a public body. 
Id 
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated during the Conservation 
Commission's June 19 meeting without posting notice of a joint meeting.3 Because the 
Conservation Commission oversees the Pout Pond Recreation Committee and its work, rather 
than the Board, we find that the discussion about Pout Pond is not a matter within the Board's 
jurisdiction. Accordingly, the Board was not required to post notice of a meeting and did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to do so. See OML 2016-119.4 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Gerald Baker, Jr. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 In support of the allegation, the complainant asserts that the Board makes funding decisions relative to Pout Pond. 
We find that the Pout Pond Recreation Committee is self-funded and therefore the Board does not have authority 
over its funding. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 