===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
January 28, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 6 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jonathan L. Driscoll, Esq. 
Driscoll & Driscoll, P.C. 
Post Office Box 301457 
Boston, MA 02130 
jonathan@drilaw.com 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Driscoll: 
 
This office received two complaints from Christine McCue Potts of the Medfield Insider 
on October 24, 2024, alleging that the Medfield Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the 
“Board”)
1 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on September 5 and September 20 and you responded on behalf 
of the Board by letters dated September 25 and October 10, respectively.2  The complaints allege 
that the Board (1) approved minutes of its June 11 and August 13 meetings which failed to 
include a list of documents used during the meetings; (2) failed to timely respond to a request for 
minutes of the Board’s August 13 meeting; and (3) approved minutes of its August 13 meeting, 
which were not sufficiently detailed.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving minutes which failed to include lists of documents used during the meetings, and by 
approving minutes which were not sufficiently detailed.  We find that the Board did not violate 
the Law in the other way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting 
Law complaints, the Board’s responses and the complainant’s requests for further review.  We 
also reviewed the minutes of the Board’s June 11 and August 13 meetings and handwritten notes 
taken during the August 13 meeting, and listened to an audio recording of the August 13 meeting 
provided by the complainant.
3  
 
1 The complainant refers to the Board as the Medfield Housing Authority Commission. 
2 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
3 We accessed the recording at https://soundcloud.com/user-66016 128/mha-bd-mtg-aug-13-2024/s-
oNhaJNmeSEC?si=5278f667b41240f4ac2a527c3ebbc7bd&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campa
ign=social_sharing. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board held a duly noticed meeting on August 13.  The 
Executive Director of the Housing Authority, Candace Avery, attended the meeting and played 
an active role, addressing the Board on many items of its agenda.  Executive Director Avery also 
took handwritten notes on a printed copy of the meeting notice.   
 
During the “Director’s Report” item of the agenda, Executive Director Avery noted that 
there were three vacancies within the Housing Authority property.  There followed a discussion 
lasting approximately nine minutes, which included questions from one of the newer members of 
the Board about the process of filling the units.  Approximately 18 minutes into the meeting, the 
Board began discussion of an article written by the complainant.  This discussion lasted 
approximately 40 minutes, during which Executive Director Avery seemed to read from a 
prepared statement, responding to points made in the article.  Additionally, the Board discussed 
the article.  Minutes of the August 13 meeting contain a very brief summary of this discussion 
and reference the prepared response, which is appended to the meeting minutes.  Also during the 
August 13 meeting, the Board took several votes, including on a motion to accept the Executive 
Director’s report and on a motion to “approve new business.”  These two votes are recorded in 
the minutes but there is no indication of what motions are being voted on.
4 
 
After approximately one hour eight minutes, the meeting adjourned.  The complainant 
then addressed the Board.  She was told that the meeting was closed.  However, she continued to 
speak, stating that she was exercising her first amendment rights.  Her comments related to the 
prior discussion about the article she authored.  Among other things, Ms. McCue Potts stated that 
Executive Director Avery does not respond to emails.   
 
On August 14, the complainant sent an email to Board Chair Brent Nelson, the Medfield  
Housing Authority, and the Town Clerk, requesting minutes of the August 13 meeting and the 
August 13 meeting packet, among other things.
5  Executive Director Avery responded by email 
that evening at 7:09 p.m., attaching the August 13 meeting packet and stating: 
 
Christine, 
August information requested I will get you all the other documentation noted in your 
email as soon as I can. 
Sincerely,  
Candace Avery 
Executive Director 
 
4 For example, the motion to approve new business is memorialized in full as follows, without any indication of 
what the motion is: 
Motion - Rob Canavan 
Second – Stacey Yakel 
Vote – Unanimous 5-0 
5 We have been provided with an email which the complainant sent to the Board on August 14 at 2:11 p.m.  That 
email includes a notation at the top “Resending this to make it clear that #3 is a request under Public Records Law.”  
This notation would suggest that the request for the August 13 minutes was also the subject of an earlier email.  In 
light of the Board’s response on August 14, the existence of a prior request for the August 13 minutes is not material 
to our analysis. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
On September 8, draft minutes of the August 13 meeting (not yet approved by the Board) 
were sent to the complainant.  On September 10, minutes of the August 13 meeting were 
approved by the Board and were forwarded to the complainant that day.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board approved minutes which failed to include lists of documents used during 
its meetings of June 11 and August 13. 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  See OML 2023-56.6  The Law requires that public bodies 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 940 CMR 
29.11(1).  Although the Law does not define what it means for a document to be “used” during a 
meeting, we have said that a document is “used,” and must be listed in the minutes, when the 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and its contents discussed by the public body 
during a meeting.  See OML 2024-217; OML 2017-43; OML 2014-12.  The failure to separately 
list documents used at a meeting constitutes a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2019-46.  The Board acknowledges, and we find, that the Board failed to include within the 
minutes of its meetings of June 11 or August 13 a list of documents used during those meetings.  
That omission constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
II. The Board re sponded in a timely manner to the complainant’s request for minutes of 
its August 13 meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The minutes of an 
open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon 
request by any person within 10 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  If minutes do not yet exist at the 
time of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 days with 
an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form.  See 
OML 2024-231; 2017-50; OML 2015-173. 
 
On August 14, the complainant requested minutes of the August 13 meeting, among other 
things.  That same day, Executive Director Avery acknowledged the request, sent some of the 
requested materials, and promised to “get you all the other documentation noted in your email as 
soon as I can.”  Although Executive Director Avery’s August 14 response could have been 
clearer, we find that the response reasonably conveyed that the requested minutes -- for a 
meeting that was held the day before -- did not yet exist.  Moreover, the complainant was 
provided with draft minutes within 30 days of her request, and was provided with the approved 
minutes the same day they were approved, also within 30 days of her request.  Under these 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
circumstances, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  Cf. OML 2024-
193 (declining to review allegation that public body failed to respond to request for minutes 
received before meeting occurred).7   
 
III. Minutes of the B oard’s meeting of August 13 were not sufficiently detailed. 
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
subst
antial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2023-56; OML 2016-105.  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2023-56; OML 2023-35; OML 2021-140.  
Minutes may not simply reference a document without summarizing the discussion which was 
had during the meeting.  See OML 2024-25; see also OML 2023-11 (noting that “[s]imply  
attaching a report does not meet the Board’s obligation to summarize the discussion in its 
minutes.”).  Minutes of the August 13 meeting did not adequately summarize the discussion of 
the complainant’s article, relying instead on the prepared statement that was attached to the 
minutes.  Moreover, the minutes contained no summary of the nine-minute discussion 
concerning vacancies.  That the discussion was “largely informational and intended to get [Board 
member Kathy] McDonald up to speed,” as described by the Board, does not eliminate the need 
to summarize that discussion in the minutes.  Because the minutes failed to sufficiently 
summarize discussions held during the August 13 meeting, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law.  We do not find that the Board violated the Law by including comments 
made after adjournment of the August 13 meeting.  See OML 2018-90 (ordering public body to 
revise minutes to summarize deliberation that took place after adjournment); OML 2011-12 
(noting that minutes included questions directed to public body after meeting adjourned). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board vio lated the Open Meeting Law by 
approving minutes which were insufficiently detailed and which failed to include lists of 
documents used during the meetings.  We order the Board, within 60 days of the date of this 
letter, to amend the minutes of its June 11 meeting to include a list of all documents used at the 
meeting and to amend the minutes of its August 13 meeting to include a list of all documents 
used at the meeting and a sufficiently detailed summary of all discussions held, in conformance 
with this letter.  As required by 940 CMR 29.07(4), the Board must certify in writing to our 
office that it has complied with the order to amend its meeting minutes.  We also order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
  
 
7Although we have found that in some circumstances handwritten notes can be considered draft minutes, we have 
found that notes in shorthand are not draft minutes.  See OML 2018-117; OML 2014-95.  Here we find that 
Executive Director Avery’s handwritten shorthand notes did not constitute draft minutes of the August 13 meeting 
and the Board was not required to produce them within ten days of request. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
     
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts (via email: ) 
 Medfield Town Clerk (via email: mbonol
 di@medfield.net)  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
