===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
December 10, 2018
OML 2018-154
Karis L. North, Esq.
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Dive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Attorney North:
This office received two complaints from Ronald Alexander on October 25 alleging that 
the Natick Finance Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on September 22; and you 
responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated October 11. The first 
complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely respond to a request for open session 
minutes. The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to timely release open session 
minutes.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for meeting minutes. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the original complaints, the Committee’s response to the complaints, and the 
complaints filed with our office requesting further review. In addition, we reviewed the notices 
of, and open session minutes from, Committee meetings held on September 6 and September 25 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on November 16 and November 19.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. Committee Clerk Bruce Evans is responsible for creating 
minutes for all Committee meetings. Mr. Evans creates draft meeting minutes after listening to 
and/or watching the video recording of each meeting. The minutes are then provided to the 
Committee for review and approval.
o
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
The Committee duly posted notice for, and then held a meeting on, September 6. During 
this meeting, the Committee discussed three warrant articles and the schedule for the special 
town meeting in October and distributed subcommittee assignments. The Committee did not 
meet in executive session.
On September 10, the complainant requested “to inspect all minutes created for or during 
all Open and Executive meetings of the Natick, MA Finance Committee on September 6, 2018.” 
(emphasis in original). On September 22, having received no response from the Committee, the 
complainant filed two Open Meeting Law complaints regarding the Committee’s failure to 
respond to his request for, and failure to release, the September 6 minutes.
The Committee posted notices for, and then held meetings on September 11, September 
13, September 20, and September 25. During its September 25 meeting, the Committee 
approved the minutes from its September 6 and September 13 meetings. On October 1, Town 
Clerk Diane Packer provided the complainant with a copy of the open session minutes from the 
Committee’s September 6 meeting.
DISCUSSION
The first complaint alleges that the Committee “failed to timely respond” to a request to 
inspect copies of open session meeting minutes, while the second complaint alleges that the 
Committee “failed to timely release” copies of open session meeting minutes. The Open 
Meeting Law requires that “[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a 
timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
Here, the complainant requested minutes from the Committee’s September 6 meeting on 
September 10 but did not receive a response until October 1, when the minutes were provided to 
him. The Committee contends that minutes of the September 6 meeting did not exist at the time 
of the complainant’s request. We credit the Committee’s account that minutes did not exist at 
the time it received the complainant’s request. However, the Committee was still required to 
respond to the request within 10 calendar days with an explanation of whether the minutes did or 
did not exist in either approved or draft form. See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015- 
173.2 Because the Committee failed to do so, we find that it violated the Open Meeting Law by 
not properly responding to a request for minutes.
With respect to the Committee’s failure to timely release the September 6 minutes, we 
note that the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies release its minutes, but 
rather that minutes be created and approved in a timely manner.3 See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). As 
stated above, there were no minutes to release in this case because Mr. Evans had not yet created
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3 The Open Meeting Law also does not require that public bodies post their meeting minutes to a website. However, 
the Supervisor of Records within the Office of the Secretary the Commonwealth requires that a municipal public 
records access officer, to the extent feasible, post commonly available public record documents on a website 
maintained by the municipality. See 950 CMR 32.04(5)(g).
2

===PAGE 3===
draft minutes of the September 6 meeting at the time the Committee received the request. An 
audio or video recording of the meeting does not constitute minutes for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2014-4. While the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
provide minutes of an open session within 10 days of a request, the law does not govern a public 
body’s response to a request for records other than those used during a meeting. See G.L. c.
30A, §§ 22(c), 22(e); OML 2014-59.
We note that the Committee approved the September 6 minutes in a timely manner. 
“Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 
29.11; OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be 
approved at the next meeting. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91. Because the Committee met 
more than three times within 30 days following its September 6 meeting, it had 30 days by which 
to approve the minutes in a timely manner. The Committee reviewed and approved the 
September 6 minutes at its September 25 meeting, 19 days later, and thus complied with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Committee that a failure 
to respond to a request for minutes within the statutory time frame violated the Open Meeting 
Law. Because we find no evidence that the Committee acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law and where the Committee had not been notified of its obligations prior to the events 
addressed in this letter, we find that this violation was not intentional.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to a request for open session minutes within 10 days. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
3

===PAGE 4===
cc: Ronald Alexander
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
