===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 26, 2012 
OML 2012 — 67 
Mary Joann Reedy, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
Ten Forbes Road West 
P.O. Box 859003 
Braintree, MA 02185-9003 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reedy: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. David Manjarrez on March 26, 2012, alleging 
that Ms. Alice DeLuca violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Ms. DeLuca 
serves as Chair of the Minuteman Regional School District Committee (the "Committee"). The 
complaint was originally filed with Ms. DeLuca and the Committee on or about February 27, 
2012. Your response to the complaint on behalf of the Committee was received by this office on 
March 16, 2012. Attached to his March 26, 2012 complaint, Mr. Manjarrez also filed with this 
office a supplemental letter, dated March 22, 2012. In his complaint, Mr. Manjarrez alleges that 
Ms. Deluca "provided an opinion and determination by email to a quorum of the School 
Committee on a public matter on February 16th and 17th, 2012, that did not provide public 
access to those deliberations." (hereinafter "the emails") 
We reviewed the complaint filed with Ms. DeLuca and the Committee on February 27, 
2012; your March 16, 2012 response to the complaint; the March 26, 2012 complaint filed with 
our office; and Mr. Manjarrez's March 22, 2012 letter. We also reviewed copies of the emails, 
provided by both the complainant and the Committee, along with additional materials which 
were provided by the Committee, including additional email correspondence and a written 
statement by Ms. DeLuca addressing the complaint, which was presented to the Committee 
during its March 13, 2012 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that Ms. DeLuca, although acting in good faith, 
individually violated the Open Meeting Law by sending communications discussing public 
business within the Committee's jurisdiction to a quorum of the Committee. We do not find that 
Ms. DeLuca intentionally violated the law, however, and we believe that appropriate remedial 
0 
===PAGE 2===
action was taken when the emails in question were disclosed during an open meeting on March 
13, 2012. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. During a 
Committee meeting on February 14, 2012, several parents raised the issue of determining the 
2012 high school graduation date when they noticed that the February 2012 school newsletter 
mentioned a different date than what was previously mentioned in the November 2011 school 
newsletter. Several parents stated that they had already made graduation plans based on the 
initially established date. 
At the time the complaint was filed, the complainant was a member of the Committee. 
According to the complainant, who was present during the February 14, 2012 meeting, the 
Committee "voted on a TBD (to be determined) date of graduation" during that meeting, despite 
the complainant's attempt to make a motion to vote on a date certain, which was not seconded. 
The following day, Rachel Ganimian and DeAnne Dupont, co-chairs of the Minuteman Parents 
Association, contacted members of the Committee, including Ms. DeLuca, by email to clarify 
the procedure for determining the graduation date and the outcome of the February 14, 2012 
meeting. In their email, the co-chairs stated that a Committee member pointed out during the 
meeting that the Committee is required to approve the graduation date pursuant to 603 CMR 
27.05, which provides that a school committee has the discretion to choose a graduation date up 
to twelve days before the regularly scheduled closing date of the school. 
On February 16, 2012, Ms. DeLuca sent an email to the entire Committee regarding the 
date of graduation. In the email, Ms. DeLuca states that the school superintendent "has deployed 
a survey to the senior class to determine preferences for a graduation date" and "past practice has 
been that the school committee has not made a specific vote on the date of graduation but has 
approved the calendar." On February 17, 2012, the complainant responded to Ms. Deluca's 
email, also copying the entire Committee, and asserted that the date determined by the parents 
would require a vote by the Committee "after proper debate," either by an emergency meeting or 
on March 13, 2012, the date of the next Committee meeting. Later that same day, Ms. DeLuca 
sent a follow-up email to the Committee, stating, "I have communicated with the leaders of the 
parent association this week about the graduation issue. The attached message was deployed 
today at 3:01pm. The date of graduation has been set, and the matter is concluded." The email's 
attachment was an announcement from Mr. Houle, principal of the Minuteman High School, 
discussing the results of the graduation survey. 
The Committee held an open session meeting on March 13, 2012. One of the items on 
the agenda was a discussion and subsequent vote on Mr. Manjarrez's Open Meeting Law 
complaint. The Committee was provided with a copy of the emails, along with additional emails 
providing context surrounding the debate. During the meeting, Ms. DeLuca read a prepared 
statement regarding the complaint, wherein she stated that she researched questions regarding 
graduation which were posed to her by the Minuteman Parent Association on February 15, 2012. 
Ms. DeLuca stated that she sought to determine "the history of the setting of the graduation at 
Minuteman, what had happened this year, and the administration's process for sorting things 
2 
===PAGE 3===
out." Ms. Deluca stated that she sent the February 16, 2012 email to report to the Committee 
what she had learned. Ms. DeLuca stated that she sent the February 17, 2012 email to the 
Committee to notify them that the administration had set the graduation date and notified 
parents. On a motion of David Horton and seconded by Dord Hunter, the Committee voted and 
affirmed that the February 16 and 17, 2012 emails did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)—(b), 21. The law's purpose is "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). 
A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" 
as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. Expression of an opinion on matters within the body's jurisdiction to a quorum 
of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. $ee OML 
2012-15; OML 2012-8; OML 2011-37. 1  Certain discussions regarding procedural or 
administrative matters may relate to public business within a body's jurisdiction, such as where 
the discussion involves the organization and leadership of the public body, committee 
assignments, rules or bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body should consider 
or take action on specific topics at a future meeting. OML 2011-38; see also OML 2012-63 
(finding that an email sent to a quorum of a Board relating to an individual Board member's 
authority to make decisions on behalf of the Board was public business within the Board's 
jurisdiction). 
Although it is a close question, we find that the emails sent on February 16 and 17, 2012 
constituted improper deliberation outside of an open meeting. The emails were not a mere 
scheduling or procedural discussion. Rather, they concerned a matter of public business within 
the Committee's jurisdiction. The Committee's discussion of the graduation date at the February 
14, 2012 meeting and their "TBD" vote demonstrate that the matter was within the Committee's 
jurisdiction, and therefore appropriate for further discussion by the Committee during an open 
meeting. See also 603 CMR 27.05 (granting Committee authority "to choose a graduation date 
up to twelve days before the regularly scheduled closing date of the school"). Furthermore, the 
content of the email messages expressed policy positions and opinions on official matters that 
were under active consideration by the Committee. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (excluding 
"scheduling" and "procedural" matters from the definition of "deliberation" provided that "no 
opinion of a member is expressed" (emphasis added)). Ms. DeLuca's discussion in the February 
16, 2012 email about the "past practice" of the Committee regarding establishing the graduation 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
date, along with her determination that the "matter is concluded" in the February 17, 2012 email, 
both constituted her opinion on these matters. These opinions should not have been shared with 
a quorum of the Committee's members outside of a properly posted open meeting. 
As a fmal matter, we note that the complainant, who was a member of the Committee at 
the time, also improperly deliberated via email when he responded to Ms. DeLuca's February 16, 
2012 email and sent his opinion on the same issue to the entire Committee. Although acting in 
good faith, the complainant's assertion that the graduation date "will now require a confirming 
vote" by the Committee, either by an emergency meeting or during the next Committee meeting 
scheduled for March 13, constituted his opinion on a matter under the Conmittee's 
consideration. This opinion should not, therefore, have been shared with a quorum of the 
Committee's members outside of a properly posted open meeting. 
By disclosing the existence and content of the emails during the Committee's March 13, 
2012 meeting, however, the Committee limited the scope and severity of the violations. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that Ms. DeLuca violated the Open Meeting Law 
by engaging in deliberation by email. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we encourage all members of the Committee to 
review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide to avoid future violations. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Minuteman Regional School District Committee 
David Manj arrez 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 