===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
July 3, 2012 
OML 2012 — 55 
William M. Zaskey 
President, City Council 
City of Chicopee 
City Hall Annex 
274 Front St. 
Chicopee, MA 01013 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Zaskey: 
This office received a complaint from Melvin Brown dated September 6, 2011, alleging 
that the Chicopee City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about August 29, 2011, and the 
Council responded to the original complaint by letter dated August 30, 2011. In his August 29, 
2011 complaint, Mr. Brown alleges that the Council acted improperly when it held an executive 
session on August 23, 2011 for the purpose of discussing pending litigation, because it failed to 
state in the meeting notice, and the Chair failed to state before entering executive session, that an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the Council's litigating position. 
We reviewed the August 29, 2011 and September 6, 2011 complaints; the meeting notice 
for the August 23, 2011 meeting; the open and executive session minutes from the August 23, 
2011 meeting; and audio recordings of the open and executive session portions of the August 23, 
2011 meeting. 
Following our review, we fmd that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
discussing matters behind closed doors that were not appropriate for executive session; by failing 
to give sufficient notice of the purpose for the executive session both in the meeting notice and at 
the time the session was convened; and by failing to state that holding this discussion in open 
session may have a detrimental effect on the Council's litigating position. 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
Because our review of the material listed above included executive session minutes that 
remain confidential, we are unable to provide a full recitation of the facts. The publicly available 
facts are as follows. 
Notice for an August 23, 2011 meeting of the Council was posted on July 28, 2011, and 
stated that the purpose of the meeting was "to go into executive session to discuss pending 
litigation." The Council convened in open session, and the audio recording reflects that a motion 
was almost immediately made and seconded to enter executive session. The Chair stated the 
Council would "go into executive session for the purpose of discussing pending litigation, and 
will not return to the regular order of business." No statement was made that having this 
discussion in open session would have a detrimental effect on the Council's litigating position. 
Although the audio recording did not capture any of the open session proceedings after the 
Chair's statement, the open session minutes state that a vote to enter executive session was taken 
and passed by unanimous roll call vote and, after the vote was taken, the complainant stated his 
objection to the Council entering executive session. 
During the executive session, five Associate City Solicitors met with the Council. Topics 
discussed during this executive session were numerous and varied. The Associate City Solicitors 
each explained the types of cases they work on, gave an overview of the status of their cases and, 
in some instances, discussed potential liability and the progress of settlement discussions. At one 
point, the conversation turned to how and why an additional attorney was hired for the Law 
Department, and the Law Department's summer and school year legal intern programs. The 
attorneys also provided general background on certain areas of law, unrelated to any particular 
pending action. Finally, a lengthy discussion unrelated to any pending or anticipated litigation 
occurred regarding appropriate use of City-owned property by certain City officials. 
In its August 30, 2011 response to Mr. Brown, the Council simply stated that "The 
Council called the meeting in accordance with Open Meeting Laws and proper procedure 
followed. No remedial action is necessary." It does not appear that the executive session 
minutes from the August 23, 2011 meeting have been released. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter executive, or closed, session for 
certain purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21. When meeting in executive session, a public body may 
only address subjects related to the narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when 
entering executive session. See District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of 
Sunderland,  11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket 
reason to deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which 
executive session was called). 
One permissible reason for holding an executive session is "To discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body's discussions with its counsel do not automatically fall 
under this or any other purpose for holding an executive session. Attorney General's Open 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Meeting Law Guide, February 10, 2012, at page 8. This purpose offers the narrow opportunity 
to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened 
or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston,  17 Mass. App. 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.1  The public body invoking this executive session purpose 
must have a bargaining or litigating position to protect, and must declare in open session that 
having this discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on that position. G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2011-47. 
Although parts of the Council's discussion with the Law Department during the August 
23, 2011 executive session were appropriate under Purpose 3, significant portions of the 
conversation were not. Discussions relating to Law Department personnel, unrelated to any 
pending or imminently threatened litigation, are clearly not appropriate for executive session 
under Purpose 3.2  The job responsibilities of each of the Assistant City Solicitors and the 
staffing decisions made to address the Law Department's caseload, including hiring an additional 
attorney and interns, are topics that should have been discussed in open session. Furthermore, 
executive session Purpose 3 does not cover discussions with counsel about general areas of law 
unrelated to any litigation matter.3  Finally, questions about the propriety of certain uses of City-
owned property by certain City officials were not appropriate for discussion under Purpose 3. 
Although the issue was not raised by the complainant, we also find that the Council's 
meeting notice was not sufficiently specific to advise the public of the topics the Council planned 
to discuss in executive session. The meeting notice described the executive session topic only as 
"to discuss pending litigation." This notice fails the requirement that the Board list topics with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). The meeting notice should have specifically stated the names 
of all pending litigation matters that the Council anticipated discussing during the executive 
session, if doing so would not have compromised the purposes for the executive session. See id.; 
OML 2011-54. 
In addition to posting proper notice, the Open Meeting Law requires that "before the 
executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for Northern Dist. v. School  
Committee of Wayland,  455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
2  Certain matters related to personnel, such as the discipline or dismissal of an employee or contract negotiations 
with nonunion personnel, are appropriate for executive session under other executive session purposes. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a)(1), (2). These purposes do not appear applicable to the conversation that occurred here. See id. 
3  Much of this information strikes us as possible training material, useful to well-informed Council members. The 
definition of "meeting" in the Open Meeting Law excludes "attendance by a quorum of a public body at a . . . 
training program . . . so long as the members do not deliberate." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. In the future, the Law 
Department could hold a private training program for the Council during which it could present similar, general 
information about how the Law Department is structured, what each of its attorneys does, and background on areas 
of law unrelated to pending or imminently threatened litigation. Such an event would not violate the Open Meeting 
Law, provided the attending Council members did not deliberate during the session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the only 
notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). The 
Chair's general statement that the Council would go into executive session "for the purpose of 
discussing pending litigation" failed this requirement as well. Furthermore, the Chair failed to 
make the statement required by Purpose 3 that an open meeting would have a detrimental effect 
on the litigating position of the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
These are not mere technical violations. The statement of the executive session purpose 
is the public's only way of knowing what is being discussed behind closed doors, until the 
executive session minutes are released. Transparency therefore demands that the statement 
contain as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for the executive session. 
Furthermore, the statement that having the discussion in open session would be detrimental to 
the body's litigating position is meant to engender confidence that the secrecy inherent in 
executive session is truly necessary. When a public body does not adhere to these requirements, 
the public has no means of judging the propriety of the executive session. 
Finally, we note that significant portions of the discussion, such as the discussion of 
certain areas of law that were unrelated to any pending action, were omitted from the executive 
session minutes. Meeting minutes must contain "a summary of the discussions on each subject." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A transcript of the discussion is not required, but minutes should be 
sufficiently detailed to allow a person who was not in attendance to determine the essence of the 
discussion. Where an entire subject is omitted from the minutes, clearly this requirement has not 
been met. 
We remind the Council that executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure 
to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but 
no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid executive session has been 
served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed, unless 
the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies. Id. Public bodies 
have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to 
determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). The burden of 
justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy 
v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee,  402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
considering topics in executive session that were not appropriate for discussion under the 
purpose cited by the Council; by failing to give sufficient notice of the purpose for the executive 
session both in the meeting notice and at the time the session was convened; and by failing to 
state that holding this discussion in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Council's 
litigating position. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the 
Council that a determination by our office of similar violations in the future may be considered 
4 
===PAGE 5===
evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In addition, we order the Council to revise 
the executive session minutes to include a summary of the discussion on each subject discussed. 
Furthermore, we order the Council to review the minutes from the August 23, 2011 executive 
session and: (1) release all portions that were not appropriate for discussion under executive 
session Purpose 3, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies; (2) determine whether continued non-disclosure of the portions of the discussion 
that were appropriate under Purpose 3 is warranted, and publicly announce that determination 
during an open session meeting. Both aspects of this review must occur within thirty (30) days 
of receiving this determination. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this 
letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Melvin Brown 
Karen Betournay, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
5 