===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 25,2018 
OML 2018-58 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
KP Law LLP 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Riley: 
This office received a complaint from Ruth Courtnell on October 24, 2016 alleging 
that the now-disbanded Brewster Coastal Advisory Group (the "Group") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Group 
on or about October 4, 2016 and you responded, on behalf of the Brewster Board of 
Selectmen, by letter dated October 17, 2016. The complaint alleges that the Group 
deliberated by email via a third party. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we awaited a decision in the matter of 
Boelter v. Wayland Board of Selectmen, SJC-12353 (Mass. April 5, 2018), which 
implicates the issues raised by this complaint. Following the Court's decision and our 
further review, we find that the Group violated the Open Meeting Law in the manner 
alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Group's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the relevant email communications. 
We find the facts as follows. The Brewster Board of Selectmen (the "Board") 
formed the Group to work with the Consensus Building Institute ("CBI"), a public 
engagement consultant team, to develop a recommendation for Brewster's coastal areas. 
The Group, which is a public body, met on August 8, 2016. Following this meeting, on 
August 11, 2016, a CBI representative sent the Group an email with attached documents, 
asking the Group members to send her any suggestions or comments on one of the attached 
draft documents concerning the town-wide strategy. The representative indicated that she 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
would compile the suggestions and send a revised draft back to the Group. In response, 
several members of the Group sent their revisions by email to CBI for compilation.1 Town 
officials and members of the public also submitted input to CBI. On August 29, 2016, the 
complainant contacted our office for guidance on whether CBI's plan to solicit comments 
and re-distribute a revised draft prior to the Group's next meeting would comply with the 
Open Meeting Law. Our office offered general guidance, citing to several previous 
determinations stating that, while individual public body member comments may be sent a 
third party for compilation, the revised draft should be distributed at a noticed meeting. 
The complainant immediately forwarded our email and her concerns to CBI and Town 
officials. The next day, the Town Administrator responded to the complainant, stating that 
the distribution of the revised draft in preparation for the meeting was "not a problem." 
On September 2, 2016, a CBI representative sent the revised draft to the Group to 
"review and analyze.. .in preparation for the September 19 meeting." The revised draft 
does not indicate individual members' opinions or revisions, but rather reflects a 
compilation of all revisions received from the Group. The Board dissolved the Group on 
October 3, 2016. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Committee of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public 
body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' 
shall not include the distribution of other procedural meeting or the distribution of reports 
or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id, For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. Id. 
The complainant alleges that the Group deliberated through a third party by 
submitting individual suggestions and revisions to that third party, who then compiled and 
revised the document for redistribution in preparation for the Group's next meeting. We 
agree with the complainant that the third party, CBI, should have waited until the next 
meeting to distribute the revised document. See Boelter v. Wavland Board of Selectmen, 
SJC-12353, slip op. at 15-16 (Mass. April 5, 2018s). citing Revere v. Massachusetts 
Gaming Comm'n. 476 Mass. 591, 610 (2017) ("the Legislature specified that no opinion of 
a board member could be expressed in any documents circulated to a quorum prior to an 
1 We remind the Group that multiple-member subgroups or "small groups" formally created by the Group 
may be considered a subcommittee subject to the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. 30A, § 18; OML 2018-23. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
open meeting"). A public body may not use a non-member to communicate on matters 
that the Board would not otherwise be able to discuss outside an open meeting. See OML 
2016-49; OML 2016-31; see also District Attorney for the Northern District v. School 
Committee of Wavland. 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not 
circumvent the requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via 
private messages, whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other 
form.").2 The issue in this case is not the mere distribution of a document, as the law does 
afford a limited exception to the definition of "deliberation" for the distribution of 
documents to be discussed at an upcoming meeting, provided that no opinion of a public 
body member is expressed. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Rather, by distributing the original 
draft, receiving comments and revisions, and then distributing a revised draft ahead of the 
meeting, CBI facilitated the Group's collective revision of a document entirely outside of a 
noticed meeting. See OML 2016-52; OML 2011-37. 
A third party may distribute a draft document and compile individual members' 
revisions of that draft document in preparation for a future meeting because those revisions 
are not communicated to or among a quorum of the public body. However, the Open 
Meeting Law restricts the next step: the third party cannot share the revised document 
with the public body until the next meeting because such distribution would effectively 
result in that individual communicating those revisions to the public body entirely outside 
of a meeting. See OML 2013-29. Because the Group, via CBI, distributed the revised 
document outside of a meeting, we find that the Group violated the Open Meeting Law. 
See Boelter. SJC-12353, slip op. at 18 (in which the court held that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by circulating "individual and composite evaluations [that] expressed 
the opinions of the board members to a quorum in advance of the public meeting"). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group violated the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating by email via a third party. Because the Group no longer exists, we 
order the immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements to any public 
bodies established by the Board in the future, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board 
to release the emails at issue, including the draft documents, to the public within 30 days of 
receipt of this determination if it has not already done so. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
http://www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
MOT VD 
anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Ruth Courtnell 
Brewster Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 