===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
A TTORNEY G ENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 5, 2014 
OML 2014-46 
Regina Tate, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane LLP 
Crown Colony Plaza 
300 Crown Colony Drive 
Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Tate: 
This office received two complaints from George Harris (the complainant), both dated 
September 20, 2013, alleging that the bargaining team of the Wayland School Committee (the 
Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Committee on June 17, 2013 and July 10, 2013, respectively. You 
responded to the complaints on behalf of the Committee by letters dated July 22, 2013 and July 
31,2013.' The complaints allege that the bargaining team was created and expanded in 
executive session but that these steps should have been taken in open session. The complaints 
further allege that the bargaining team is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law and that 
the team has failed to follow the requirements of the Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the June 17, 2013 and July 10, 2013 complaints 
filed with the Committee; the Committee's July 22, 2013 and July 31, 2013 responses; and the 
September 19, 2013 complaints filed with this office. Additionally, we reviewed e-mail 
correspondence between the complainant and the Chair of the Committee, Barbara Fletcher, 
provided with the complaints, as well as correspondence from Donna Bouchard dated March 28, 
2014 and from the complainant dated March 15, 2014. We also reviewed the agenda and 
minutes for the Committee's September 24, 2012 and March 11, 2013 meetings, and a recording 
of the Committee's March 11, 2013 meeting. Finally we spoke with the complainant and the 
attorney for the Committee in November 2013 and March 2014. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by creating and expanding the bargaining team in executive session. Further, we find that the 
Committee's bargaining team is not a public body subject to Open Meeting Law, thus it was not 
required to comply with the Law's procedures. 
1 For the purpose of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee has utilized counsel as its chief negotiator 
for union negotiations since 1996. Traditionally, counsel would report back to the Committee on 
the status of negotiations. In 2012, in an effort to reduce costs associated with counsel providing 
such reports, the Committee appointed one of its own members to act as a liaison and provide 
periodic reports to the full Committee on the progress of the bargaining sessions. This 
appointment was made in an executive session on September 24, 2012 and was described on the 
meeting notice under the topic "With Finance Committee & Personnel Board - Negotiations 
Strategy with School Unions, including WTA, WESA, Custodial and Food Service." Prior to 
entering the executive session, the chair stated that the executive session was "to discuss strategy 
with respect to Collective Bargaining as set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 30 (a) [sic]. Section 21 
(a)(3), as such a discussion in open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position of the School Committee and an Executive Session is necessary to protect the 
bargaining position of the School Committee." 
In March 2013, the parties switched from position-based bargaining to interest-based 
bargaining (IBB). Position-based bargaining is the traditional method of bargaining in which the 
parties start with proposals to solve known or inferred problems. In position-based bargaining, 
the parties normally justify their proposals by identifying the problems that the proposals are 
intended to address. In IBB, these problems are the starting point of a negotiation. The parties 
meet to identify the problems each must address in order to reach an agreement and together 
identify possible solutions to those problems. 
Practically speaking, IBB requires more input from representative members of each 
party. To meet this requirement, the Committee met in executive session on March 11, 2013 to 
appoint more of its members to the bargaining team. The agenda listed this item under the topic 
"Negotiating Strategy with WTA, WESA, Custodial & Food Workers." Prior to entering the 
executive session, the chair stated that the session was "to discuss strategy with respect to 
Collective Bargaining for all school unions . .., as set forth in M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 
21(a)(3)." No statement was made regarding a possible detrimental effect if the discussion was 
held in open session. 
The newly appointed members of this bargaining team were not charged with any 
particular goal. Their purpose was to engage in discussions with union representatives and 
identify common ground. Any firm proposals were still to be exchanged through counsel and the 
union's chief negotiator. The team did not approve the contract proposals nor did it vote any 
other actions. The team acted as a conduit of information between the bargaining sessions and 
the Committee. In one direction, members of the team would engage in collaborative exercises 
with counterparts from the various unions. In the other, the team would report to the Committee 
what had occurred during bargaining sessions with various collective bargaining units. 
DISCUSSION 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity against which the complaint is filed is a "public body" subject to the Open Meeting 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Law. The Open Meeting Law defines "public body" in relevant part as "a multiple-member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within . . . any county, district, city, region or 
town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A subcommittee is "any multiple-member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body." Id. To determine whether a multiple-member 
entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider 
which apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within' government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
That the bargaining team is "within" government and serves a "public purpose" is not in 
dispute. The determination of whether the bargaining team is a public body instead hinges on 
whether it is empowered to act collectively. Indicia of an entity's collective power to act 
include a quorum requirement and the taking of votes. See OML 2013-56. The bargaining team 
here was created to participate in a new form of negotiation as a group of individuals 
representing the concerns of the Committee. It communicated the substance of its discussions to 
the entire Committee. It made no formal recommendations to the Committee, nor was it charged 
with any specific decision-making or policy advisory authority. The team also was not charged 
with making specific concrete proposals—that power remained with the Chief Negotiator. 
Accordingly, we find that the bargaining team was not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. 
The complaint also alleges that the creation and expansion of the bargaining team in 
executive session was in violation of the Open Meeting Law. On both occasions, the Committee 
met in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3") to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining. We find that the creation and expansion of the bargaining team 
constituted appropriate discussion under the executive session purpose because of its direct 
connection to the Committee's strategy with respect to collective bargaining. See OML 2013-
84. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law in the Committee's choice to 
enter executive session to create and expand the bargaining team on September 24, 2012 and 
March 11,2013. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by meeting in executive session to create and expand the bargaining team. We 
also find that the bargaining team is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, thus 
they were not required to comply with its procedures. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints currently pending with our office or with 
2 See OML 2010-1 for an explanation of this three-part analysis. Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at 
the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Wayland School Committee 
George Harris 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(e). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 