===PAGE 1===
     
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASTMURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
July 26, 2011 
OML2011-32 
Katharine I. Doyle, Esq. 
Kopehnan and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints/J. Bennett 
Dear Attorney Doyle: 
On October 18, 2010 and October 26, 2010, respectively, our office received complaints 
filed by Mr. Jeffrey P. Bennett ("the Complainant") alleging that the Templeton Board of 
Selectmen ("Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, during its meeting 
on September 29, 2010. Specifically, the October 18, 2010 complaint alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing "to follow the open meeting law and post all  meetings 
in accordance with the law," including failing to post the time of the meeting accurately and 
failing to post all topics for discussion during a meeting of the Board. The October 26, 2010 
complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it "failed to follow 
procedures," for discussing complaints against a public official because there was "no 48 hour 
notice to said individual; [the] individual was denied [the] right to be heard in open session." 
As the complaints are filed by one Complainant and based on the same facts arising from a 
single meeting, we consolidate the complaints and treat them as one. 
To remedy the alleged violation, the Complainant requests that that Board be required to 
post all meetings in accordance with the law and provide notice to individuals who are to be the 
subject of executive session informing the individual of their rights in accordance with the 
requirements of the law. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 4, 2010 
and October 5, 2010. A response from Counsel submitted on behalf of the Board was received 
on October 28, 2010. 
In making our determination we reviewed the original complaints and reqUests.for further 
1 
===PAGE 2===
review by this office; the Board's response; the meeting notice for the September 29, 2010 
meeting of the Board as filed with the town clerk; the meeting notice for the September 29, 2010 
meeting of the Board as posted on the town of Templeton's website; and the open and executive 
session minutes of the September 29, 2010 meeting of the Board. 
Based on our review of these materials we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law on September 29, 2010 by failing to post an accurate meeting notice and by failing to follow 
the appropriate procedures for entering executive session. However, we decline to find that the 
Board violated the rights of any individual by entering into executive session, as the complainant 
alleges, because the Chair of the Board did not anticipate that the Chief of Police, who is not a 
member of the Board, would raise the question of whether the Board wanted to pursue a criminal 
complaint against a sitting town official. 
FACTS 
On September 22, 2010, the Board filed with the town clerk a notice for a meeting to be 
held at 6:00 p.m. on Wednesday, September 29, 2010 in the Conference Room at 690 Patriots 
Road. The meeting notice was brief, listing a single substantive matter: "[c]omplaint or charges 
against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." The notice included the 
statement that the Board "[m]ay go into Executive Session under exemption #1 under the Open 
Meeting Law." A meeting notice was also posted on the town of Templeton's website. That 
meeting notice included the same information as the meeting notice filed with the clerk, however 
it listed the meeting as starting at 6:30 p.m. 
On September 29, 2010, the Board convened its meeting at 6:00 p.m. in the Conference 
Room. The minutes reflect that the Board had a brief opening conversation and then discussed 
whether a hearing being convened by the Board would be open or closed. A motion was made to 
close the hearing. The Board took a roll call vote to enter executive session. The minutes do not 
reflect the reason that the Board voted to enter executive session, nor do the minutes reflect any 
indication of the Board's intention to reconvene in open session following executive session. 
The door to the Conference Room was closed at the start of the executive session. 
During the executive session, the Board convened a hearing to hear a complaint filed by a 
Templeton resident against a public official. The complaint was not related to Mr. Paul 
Cosentino. The Chief of Police was present during the executive session. The minutes reflect 
that the Board voted to reconvene in open session at 7:20 p.m. The Board did not open the door 
to the Conference Room that had been closed at the beginning of the executive session. 
The minutes reflect that, upon reconvening in open session, the Chief of Police spoke 
first, asking "the Board if they want him to file charges against P. Cosentino RE his statements to 
the Board at the 9/27 BOS meeting." This was the first time that Mr. Cosentino's name was 
mentioned at the meeting. A discussion among the Board then ensued: 
Chris said he'd have to see the tape to make a decision. Bob said 
Mr. C. won't stop until someone does something. Dennis asked if the 
Chief can speak to Mr. C. about his behavior. Chief said it shouldn't go 
unaddressed. Chris said again he wants to see the tape. Chief said he has 
2 
===PAGE 3===
one. 
The Board then adopted a motion to send a letter to Mr. Cosentino, instructing him that he was 
not authorized to enter any town office without a police escort for a period of six months. 
In the meantime, the Complainant had arrived with the intention of attending the Board 
meeting. The Complainant remained outside of the Conference Room and did not seek to enter 
the room. Only after the meeting concluded did the Complainant become aware that the Board 
had discussions about Mr. Cosentino and deliberated on sending a letter to Mr. Cosentino 
advising him of its decision that he must be accompanied by a police escort when in town offices 
for a period of six months. See  Complaint, October 18, 2010. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting law requires public bodies to post a meeting 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, §20(b). Moreover, public bodies are required to list the topics for 
discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting" without conveying otherwise confidential information. 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b) All meetings of a public body shall be open to the public, unless a public body cites 
an appropriate reason for entering executive session. See G.L.c. 30A, §21. The Open Meeting 
Law provides ten purposes for which a public body may enter executive session, including "to 
discuss...complaints or charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual." ("Purpose 1"). Id. An executive session called pursuant to Purpose 1 triggers 
certain rights on the part of an individual who is the subject of the discussion. Id. Included in 
these rights are the right to receive 48 hours advance notice of the executive session and the right 
to be present for the executive session, among others. Id. 
We first address the issue of whether the meeting notice complied with the Open Meeting 
Law. Here, the meeting notice listed as topics for discussion during the September 29th  meeting, 
"Complaint of charges against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual. May go 
into Executive Session under exemption #1 under the Open Meeting Law." The meeting notice 
did not list any additional topics. Given the lack of detail contained within the meeting notice, a 
member of the public could have had questions about the exact nature of the discussion 
anticipated by the public body. However, the meeting notice complied with the letter of the 
Open Meeting Law because it stated the reason for the anticipated executive session, while 
balancing the privacy rights of the individual who was the subject of the complaint. Our review 
of the executive session minutes of the September 29th  meeting confirms that the complaint 
referenced in the meeting notice did not relate to Mr. Cosentino. Moreover, the executive 
session minutes reflect that the rights of the individual who was the subject of the complaint 
were preserved by the Board. 
With regard to the Complainant's assertion that the Board failed to post the time of the 
meeting accurately, we find that the complaint has merit. The Open Meeting Law regulations 
require that public meeting notices "shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
list of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). The 
3 
===PAGE 4===
regulations fiirther require that "Motices posted under an alternative posting method...shall 
include the same content as required by 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b)." 940 CMR 29.03(1)(c). 
Regardless of who is actually responsible for posting the meeting notice on the website, the 
Board, through its Chair or the Chair's designee, is responsible for ensuring that all information 
contained in the notice is accurate. Ensuring the consistency of information included in all 
meeting notices is important under any circumstances, but particularly so where a municipality 
has adopted a website as an alternative method of posting because of the broad reach of the 
website. Here, the official meeting notice filed by the Board with the town clerk on September 
22, 2010 listed the staffing time of the meeting as 6:00 pan. The meeting notice on the website 
listed the starting time of the meeting as 6:30 p.m. The minutes reflect that the meeting 
convened at 6:00 p.m. While we have no reason to believe that the inconsistency was anything 
more than a clerical error, it is nonetheless a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Second, we address whether the Board appropriately deliberated about issuing a letter to 
Mr. Cosentino, barring him from entering town offices without a police escort. The meeting 
notice did not include this as an anticipated topic for deliberation by the Board during its 
meetint. Here the minutes of the open session of the Board reflect that,  following reconvening 	  
in open session, the Chief of Police rather than a member of the Board raised the issue of filing 
charges against Mr. Cosentino. In its response to the complaint, the Board states that it was 
"surprised...with a request to be heard regarding alleged threatening statements made by a town 
official during a meeting in the evening of the Board of Selectmen on September 27, 2010" and 
that "the Chairman...had been given no prior warning that the Police Chief would raise the 
issue." We have no reason to doubt this assertion, nor has any evidence been presented to the 
contrary. 
When a topic arises during the course of a meeting that was not reasonably anticipated by 
the Chair of the public body and is not reflected in the meeting notice, public bodies may still 
deliberateon the topic.1  However, we caution public bodieS to carefully consider whether a 
topic not listed in the meeting notice—particularly one that iS controversial in nature—is 
appropriate for lengthy deliberation and decision by the public body at the time it is raised. The 
Open Meeting Law is intended to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Comm of Southbridge, 376 
Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Nevertheless, we realize that topics may be raised during meetings, either 
by members .of the public or by members of the public body, which were not anticipated. 
Accordingly, public bodies are advised that discussions on topics that are not listed in the 
• meeing notice should be avoided when possible and, if they must occur, should be general and 
brief 
Here, a discussion of the topic raised by the Police Chief would have more appropriately 
See www.mass.cov/ago/openmeeting: 
Q: May a public body consider a topic at a meeting that was not listed in the meeting notice? 
A: Yes, if it is a topic that the chair did not reasonably anticipate 48 hours before the meeting. If a meeting topic is proposed 
after the meeting notice is posted, the public body is encouraged to update its.posting to provide the public with as much notice as 
possible of what subjects will be discussed during a meeting. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
been conducted during an adequately noticed meeting. This is particularly true given the nature 
of the deliberation which resulted in an individual being restricted from entry to a public 
building. Although we are constrained to find that the Board acted within the letter of the Open 
Meeting Law because the topic was not anticipated in advance of the meeting, the Board failed 
to act within the spirit of the Open Meeting Law. The intent of the Open Meeting Law would 
have been better served if the discussion had been postponed until a future, duly posted meeting. 
Finally, during the course of our investigation we uncovered evidence of a violation that 
was not raised in the initial complaint, but we would be remiss in our responsibilities if we did 
not identify. Namely, the Board failed to follow the procedure included in the Open Meeting 
Law when it entered executive session on September 29, 2010. The Open Meeting Law requires 
that, when enterffig executive session, the Chair take several procedural steps to ensure that the 
public is informed of the actions that the public body intends to undertake while in executive 
session because the deliberation will be otherwise closed to the public. This includes, "publicly 
announc[ing] whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session." G.L. c. 30A, §21(b)(4). The purpose of the announcement is to inform members of the 
	 public whether the public body will reconvene in open session to  transact additional business so 
that the public may decide whether they wish to be present for those open discussions. 
Here, the Board did not announce whether it would reconvene in open session prior to 
entering executive session. The significance of its failure to do so is magnified by the fact that 
the door to the room in which the meeting was held remained closed and there was otherwise no 
indication to the public that executive session had concluded. Accordingly, the Board violated 
the law. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to ensure that the 
meeting notice posted on the town's website contained accurate information about the starting 
time of the meeting on September 29, 2010. In addition, we fmd that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law on September 29, 2010 by failing to follow the appropriate procedures for 
entering executive session. We order the Board to immediately and in the future comply with 
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, and the Open Meeting Law 
regulations, 940 CMR 29.00. 
We note that in the time since the meeting, the Board has taken remedial action to 
address the concerns raised by the Complainant. Following the September 29th  meeting, the 
Board acknowledged during the open session of a meeting held on October 12, 2010 that "no one 
had opened the door the check the hallway to see if any members of the public were still there 
who may have wished to come into the meeting room." Board's Response, October 25, 2010. 
Additionally, since the September 29, 2010 meeting the Board has "decided to implement a 
system of putting a sign on the door that states whether the Board is in open session or executive 
session," and has "resolved to be diligent," about making sure the sign accurately reflects the 
meeting status. Id. Finally, following a hearing at which Mr. Cosentino was present, the Board 
voted on October 20, 2010 not to extend the restrictions placed on his presence in town offices 
which were initially adopted during the September 29th  meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
We are satisfied that the Board has taken sufficient action to address the concerns raised 
in the complaint. However, we note that we may consider similar conduct in the future to be 
evidence of an intentional violation of the law. With the issuance of this determination we now 
consider this matter closed. 
Sincerely, 
Britte McBride 
Assistant Attorney General 
cc: 	 Mr. Jeffrey P. Bennett 
Templeton Board of Selectmen 
6 