===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 11,2018 
Notice: 
This determination was issued by the Attorney General prior to the April 5, 2018, decision of the 
Supreme Judicial Court in the matter of Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, No. SJC-
12353, which may supersede this determination to the extent that the two are inconsistent. In 
Boelter, the Court concluded that the Wayland Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting 
Law by distributing to its members employee performance evaluations that included opinions of 
individual Board members. Communication of these opinions by email constituted 
"deliberation" by the Board members that may occur only during a properly noticed meeting. 
This decision establishes that public body members may not send opinions to each other, 
including individual employee performance evaluations for aggregation, outside of a noticed 
meeting. After April 5, 2018, the Division of Open Government will adhere to the Court's 
holding in Boelter in its enforcement of the Open Meeting Law. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Director, Division of Open Government 
O 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 5, 2013 
OML 2013-86 
Cyndy S. Taymore 
Superintendent of Schools 
360 Lynn Fells Parkway 
Melrose, MA 02176 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Taymore: 
This office received complaints from Edward Kenney, dated February 13, 2012, and 
Carrie Kourkoumelis, dated February 13, 2012, alleging that the Melrose School Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaints allege that prior to the Committee's December 20, 2011 meeting, "a quorum of the 
[Superintendent] Screening Panel and one other member of the full committee submitted slates 
of names of individuals that they would like to see on the Superintendent Search Committee." 
Mr. Kenney filed his complaint with the Committee on or about January 4, 2012. Ms. 
Kourkoumelis filed her complaint with the Committee on or about January 7, 2012. The 
Committee responded to both complaints by letter dated January 24, 2012. 
We reviewed the two complaints filed with the Committee; the Committee's January 24, 
2012 response; and the two complaints filed with our office. We reviewed an email from 
Committee Chair Kristin Thorp to members of the Committee, dated December 13, 2011. We 
also reviewed slates of candidates to serve on the Superintendent Screening Committee, 
submitted by Committee members Thorp, Kourkoumelis, Donald Lehman, and Christine 
Casatelli. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the distribution of the slates over email was an administrative task and not deliberation. 
However, given the ease with which such a task can cross the line into deliberation, we caution 
the Committee against using email in this way in the future. 
FACTS 
In the Fall of 2011, Superintendent of Schools Joseph Casey informed the Committee that 
he intended to retire at the end of the 2011/2012 academic year. Following this announcement. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 

===PAGE 3===
the Committee developed a process to select a new superintendent. The seven-member 
Committee decided to create a thirteen-member Superintendent Search Committee (the "Search 
Committee"), consisting of two Committee members, one administrator, two principals, two 
teachers, three parents, two community representatives and one expert in the field of education. 
The Committee then created a three-member Superintendent Search Committee Selection Panel 
(the "Selection Panel") to help the Committee select members for the Search Committee. The 
Selection Panel invited individuals who were interested in serving on the Search Committee to 
submit letters of interest, indicating their particular qualifications to represent their stakeholder 
group or to serve as a community representative or educational expert. 
The Committee received 33 letters of interest, which were submitted to the Selection 
Panel. On December 7, 2011, the Selection Panel met in open session, and then convened in 
executive session to conduct a preliminary screening of the applicants. Following the executive 
session, the Selection Panel reconvened in public and stated that it would present the Committee 
with the names of all 33 applicants, having concluded that all were qualified to serve on the 
Search Committee. 
On December 13, 2011, Selection Panel and Committee Chair Kristin Thorp sent the 
Committee members an e-mail that included copies of all 33 applications and a grid created by 
the Selection Panel that listed the names and qualifications of each applicant. In the email, Ms. 
Thorp wrote: 
At our December 20th meeting, we are hopeful that we will be able to choose the Search 
Committee. To help move this process along, if anyone would like to propose a slate of 
candidates, they are invited to do so. Please forward any proposed slate of candidates to 
the [the School Committee Chair] by Wed evening (Dec. 14th) for inclusion in our 
packets. 
In order to give the entire committee time to review their options, I am strongly 
recommending that anyone who wants to propose a slate do so by that time. A proposed 
slate brought to the meeting would be very difficult for all members to assimilate in 
enough detail to give it it's [sic] due. We should be prepared to decide on this at the Dec. 
20th meeting in order to keep on schedule if at all possible, so be prepared. 
Following Ms. Thorp's email, three Committee members - Thorp, Donald Lehman, and 
Christine Casatelli - submitted proposed slates of 13 applicants to serve on the Search 
Committee. On December 16, 2011, the three slates were distributed to the Committee members 
as part of the packets that are provided to members before each meeting, along with the agenda 
and other documents to be considering during the meeting. The slates only included the names 
of the individuals the author recommended, and did not include any statements supporting the 
recommendations. There was no discussion among the Committee members about the slates 
prior to the December 20, 2011 Committee meeting. 
On December 20, 2011, the Committee met in open session and considered the selection 
of applicants to serve on the Search Committee. Mayor Robert Dolan, who is an ex-officio 
2 

===PAGE 4===
member of the Committee, moved to approve the slate of applicants proposed by Committee 
Chair Thorp. Following that motion, the Committee discussed the slate for about ten minutes. 
Following the discussion, the Committee voted to approve the Mayor's motion by a vote of 6-1, 
with Ms. Kourkoumelis dissenting. 
DISCUSSION 
The issue raised by these complaints is whether the slates distributed over email between 
and among a quorum of the Committee constituted deliberation. The Open Meeting Law defines 
"deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation does not include "the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed." Id. A public body may only deliberate during a meeting, at which a quorum of the 
public body is physically present and to which the public has access. Id.; G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). 
Deliberations over email are prohibited.  See OML 2012-84.1 
The three slates of candidates were documents intended for discussion at a Committee 
meeting. The Committee sought to appoint 13 of the 33 applicants at its December 20, 2011 
meeting. The three slates of candidates were prepared by individual Committee members, and 
provided to the full Committee as part of the pre-meeting packet without any additional 
commentary. There was no discussion over email among the members regarding the merits of 
the slates, and the slates themselves were presented and discussed during the Committee's 
December 20, 2011 meeting. We therefore find that the distribution of the slates to a quorum of 
the Committee for the purpose of discussion in a meeting was an administrative task and not 
deliberation. See OML 2013-5; OML 2011-20 (finding that it was appropriate to distribute a 
draft zoning agreement over email to a quorum of a public body, but that subsequent discussion 
was unlawful deliberation). 
We note, however, that determining which tasks are merely "administrative" can be 
challenging, and that email communications between a quorum of public body members -
however  innocent - creates at least the appearance of a potential Open Meeting Law violation. 
Therefore, our best advice continues to be that public bodies not communicate over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing documents created 
by non-members to be discussed at meetings, which are administrative tasks specifically 
sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2013-4; OML 2013-5. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
1 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/operLmeetmg. 
3 

===PAGE 5===
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
cc: Melrose School Committee 
Edward Kenney 
Carrie Kourkoumelis 
Mary Jo Hollender, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
