===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
 
       July 31, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 108  
 
 
Layla Taylor, Esq. 
Sullivan, Hayes & Quinn, LLC 
One Monarch Place 
Springfield, MA 01144 
 
By email only: Layla.Taylor@sullivanandhayes.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Taylor: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney James Racine on September 16, 2024,  
alleging that the Northampton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Council by Paula 
Rigano on July 5, 2024, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated July 29, 
2024, following an extension of time granted by this office.  The complaint alleges that a quorum 
of the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed 
the notices and open session minutes of the Committee meetings held on June 21 and June 26, 
2024, the executive session minutes of the June 26, 2024, meeting, and  video recordings of both 
the June 21 and June 26, 2024, meetings.
1  Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone 
on December 17, 2024, and with you by telephone on February 12, 2025.    
 
1 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on June 26 is available at: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KudbV3gbJ-Y; a video recording of the Committee meeting held on June 21 is 
available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kn2D3kjN9Cs. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a ten-member public body; thus, six 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
During a meeting held on June 13, 2024, the Committee heard from the President of the 
Northampton Association of School Educators (“NASE”) who stated that NASE held a vote of 
no confidence in Superintendent Portia Bonner.  The President of NASE explained that the vote 
of no confidence was based on the Superintendent’s “budget cuts, a confusing and inaccurate 
budget presentation to the City Council, shameful displays of bureaucratic pandering, top-down 
initiatives, lack of representation on the strategic planning group, and disparaging comments 
made to students.” 
 
Between June 13 and June 18, 2024, three Committee members – Gwen Agna, Karen 
Foster Cannon, and Aline Davis – drafted a statement in response to the NASE no-confidence 
vote.  These three members worked on the draft statement via a shared Google Drive folder that 
only they could access.  Separately, Committee member Michael Stein drafted his own statement 
in response to the no-confidence vote and then shared that statement with Committee members 
Kerry LaBounty and Ann Hennessey.   
 
On June 18, 2024, Committee Clerk Cassandra Eckhoff requested access to the shared 
Google Drive folder that contained the statement drafted by Ms. Foster Cannon, Ms. Agna and 
Ms. Davis.  Ms. Foster Cannon shared access to the draft statement with Clerk Eckhoff that day.  
When the draft statement was shared with Ms. Eckhoff, it was also shared with the listserv 
address northampton-school-committee@northamptonk12.us, which all Committee members 
and the Superintendent have access to.   
 
During a meeting held on June 21, 2024, the Committee convened in open session and 
discussed and voted on a budget for fiscal year 2025.  Ms. Agna then made a motion, seconded 
by Ms. Hennessey, to convene in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.
2  The Committee unanimously 
voted by roll call to convene in executive session.  During the executive session, the Committee 
discussed the statements drafted by Ms. Agna, Ms. Foster Cannon, and Ms. Davis, as well as the 
statement drafted by Mr. Stein.  Ultimately, the Committee did not adopt either draft statement 
during the June 21, 2024, executive session but agreed to continue discussing a response to the 
NASE no-confidence vote at its next meeting. 
 
The Committee’s next meeting was held on June 26, 2024.  At the beginning of the 
meeting, Mayor Gina-Louise Sciarra, who is Chair of the Committee, announced that the 
Committee would first be convening in executive session but would return to open session at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  Member Agna then made a motion, seconded by Member 
 
2 We remind the Committee that when convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must 
identify the collective bargaining unit with whom it will be negotiating or the litigation matter it will discuss, if 
doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-151.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Davis, to convene in executive session pursuant to Purposes 1 and 3, and read the language of 
each purpose.  The Committee then unanimously voted by roll call to convene in executive 
session.  The Committee met in executive session for approximately two hours and heard from 
members of NASE regarding its no-confidence vote.  Although the Superintendent was present 
at the executive session, she declined to comment.  The Committee then discussed and drafted a 
response to the no-confidence vote. 
  
Upon reconvening in open session at the conclusion of the executive session, Mayor 
Sciarra read the following statement, which was unanimously approved by the Committee: 
 
As a School Committee, we have heard the concerns of NASE and are responding 
to affirm our commitment to support Dr. Bonner and to work with our larger 
school community to chart a path forward for our district. 
 
Dr. Bonner was hired, with high hopes and community support, during a turbulent 
time in Northampton Public Schools. She is the third superintendent in as many 
years and she has not finished her first year or been evaluated by the Committee. 
We remain committed to Dr. Bonner’s success. At the same time, we 
acknowledge there has been a fracture in trust within the school community and 
reestablishing this will require work on behalf of both the Superintendent and the 
School Committee. 
 
Our School Committee is ultimately responsible for evaluating the work of the 
Superintendent, and that work is currently in process. We believe in the 
importance of a fair evaluation and will discuss her annual evaluation as a 
Committee at one of our regularly scheduled School Committee meetings. There 
will be opportunities for the community to provide feedback as a part of the 
evaluation process. 
 
As a School Committee, we are committed to centering the well-being of our 
city’s children and the stability of our schools. Our community deserves the very 
best from all of us, and we look forward to working with all stakeholders in our 
community to move forward together. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliber
ation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion 
of a memb
er is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a 
simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted 
meeti
ng by developing and circulating draft statements in response to NASE’s no-confidence 
vote.  The Committee acknowledges that three members – Agna, Foster Cannon, and Davis – 
worked together via a shared Google Drive folder to draft a response to the no-confidence vote, 
and that Mr. Stein drafted a separate statement that he later shared with two other Committee 
members.  Any communication among a quorum of a public body on matters that are pending or 
will come before it and within the public body’s jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See 
OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 
Mass. 233, 243 (2018).3  We do not find that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting 
with respect to Mr. Stein’s statement as his statement was shared with only two Committee 
members prior to the June 21, 2024, meeting.  We have not been presented with any evidence 
that Mr. Stein shared his draft statement with any other additional members prior to discussing 
the statement during the June 21, 2024, executive session.  Therefore, because Mr. Stein’s draft 
statement was shared between only three members, a subquorum, we do not find deliberation.
4  
See OML 2018-132; OML 2017-199; OML 2017-69.   
 
Whether the statement drafted by Ms. Agna, Ms. Foster C
 annon, and Ms. Davis was 
shared among a quorum of members is a closer question.  Initially, Ms. Agna, Ms. Foster 
Cannon, and Ms. Davis only communicated with each other via a shared Google Drive folder 
that was accessible to just the three members.  However, on June 18, 2024, Ms. Foster Cannon 
shared access to the draft statement with Clerk Eckhoff via the Committee’s listserv address.  
Through our investigation and notwithstanding cooperation by the Committee in attempting to 
determine access to the document on the Google Drive folder, we have been unable to determine 
whether Committee members, other than Ms. Agna, Ms. Foster Cannon, and Ms. Davis, accessed 
or reviewed the draft statement prior to the June 21, 2024, meeting.  As such, we are constrained 
to find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a 
properly posted meeting.  See OML 2022-172; OML 2018-50. 
 
Although we find insufficient evidence that a quorum of Committee members viewed or 
provided input
 on the statement drafted by Ms. Agna, Ms. Foster Cannon, and Ms. Davis outside 
of a meeting, we take seriously the allegations raised by the complaint and note our concern with 
the Committee’s use of Google Drive in a manner that a quorum of members could have viewed 
the draft statement outside of a properly posted meeting.  At the very least, posting the statement 
on a shared drive that all Committee members could access—even if they did not—may create 
the appearance of improper deliberation.  See OML 2017-52; OML 2014-25.  The Open Meeting 
Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for discussions that do 
not result in a decision or vote.  The expression of an opinion of one public body member on 
matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
4 We note that the notice of the Committee meeting held on June 26, 2024, includes a link to the statement drafted 
by Mr. Stein. 
===PAGE 5===
other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33. We remind the
Committee that all discussions between or among a quorum must only take place at a properly
noticed meeting that is open to the public and that a public body may not engage in a serial
communication whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of
a meeting, on a particular subject matter within the public body's jurisdiction. See OMI 2015-3;
OML 2012-84; OMIL 2011-27; McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (holding that
private serial communications violate the spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to
circumvent the intent of the Law).
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you
have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny lume Kilague.
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
James Racine, Esq. - By email only:_
Paula Rigano - By email only:
Northampton School Committee - By email only: northampton-school-
committee @northampton-k12.us
Northampton City Clerk - By email only: cclerk @northamptonma.gov
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.