===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 14, 2026 
  
OML 2026 - 118 
  
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
  
Patricia Healey 
Chair, Northampton Housing Authority  
 
 
 
RE: Open M
eeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Chair Healey:  
 
On November 12, 2025, this office received a complaint from Jo Ella Tarbutton-
Springfield, alleging that the Northampton Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint originally was 
filed with the Board on October 10; you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
October 31.  The complainant alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it (1) 
excluded her from meetings in March 2025 and October 2025; (2) entered executive session for 
an improper purpose; and (3) withheld communication, meeting notices, and meeting minutes. 
 
Following o
ur review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it excluded the complainant from an executive session at its October 6 meeting.  We also 
find that the Board did not enter executive session for an improper purpose at its October 6 
meeting.  We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint.
2  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice and executive session 
minutes of a meeting the Board held on October 6.  Finally, we communicated with you and with 
the complainant by email.   
 
  
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates refer to the year 2025. 
2 We note that the allegation regarding the March meeting is untimely.  The complaint was filed with the Board 
approximately seven months after the March meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b) (providing that the complaint must 
be filed within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation). 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The complainant, Commissioner Tarbutton-Springfield, is a 
member of the Board.  On October 2, the Board posted notice of a virtual meeting to be held on 
October 6.  The notice included the following topic: 
 
1. Motion- Enter into Executive Session for one purpose: under G.L. c. 30A, &21(A)(1): 
To discuss a third-party investigation of complaints or charges brought against a 
public official, employee, staff member, or individual.3 
 
 The meeting went forward on October 6, as scheduled.  During the open session of the 
October 6 meeting, preceding the executive session, Commissioner Tarbutton-Springfield moved 
to discuss the third-party investigation in open session.  The motion was defeated.  Additionally, 
the Chair stated that it would not be appropriate for Commissioner Tarbutton-Springfield to 
participate in the executive session because she had made direct complaints about the Executive 
Director of the Housing Authority, the subject of the executive session.  Commissioner 
Tarbutton-Springfield was then excluded from the executive session. 
 
 We reviewed the minutes of the October 6 executive session in camera, as they have not 
been released by the Board.  Therefore, we do not summarize the minutes here other than to note 
that they confirm that Housing Authority Executive Director Cara Leiper was the subject of the 
executive session. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board did not violate the Law when it barred the complainant from attending an 
executive session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law “is designed to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) 
(except when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the 
public.”); OML 2023-10.4  Although members of the public must be allowed to attend an open 
session of a public body, there is nothing within the Open Meeting Law that prohibits a public 
body from barring one of its members from attending an executive session.  Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it barred the complainant from the 
executive session held on October 6. 
 
  
 
3 The complaint alleges that according to the notice, the purpose of the executive session was “to discuss matters of 
fairness and personnel.”  The notice available online and the notice provided by the complainant provide the 
language quoted in our statement of the facts above. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
II. The Board did not enter executive session for an improper purpose on October 6. 
 
On October 6, the Board met in executive session to discuss complaints against the 
Executive Director of the Housing Authority.  This was an appropriate use of executive session.  
Public bodies may enter executive session to “discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health ... of an individual , or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”).  This was the purpose listed in the meeting notice and also 
was the nature of the discussion, as evidenced by the executive session minutes.  Therefore, we 
find no violation as to this allegation.   
 
III. We decline to review allegations that the Board withheld communication, meeting 
notices, and meeting minutes. 
 
The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, must 
be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  A public 
body must also respond to a request for executive session minutes.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  
The complainant has not provided any information about a request for minutes, however.  
Therefore, we decline to review this allegation.  Moreover, there is nothing within the Open 
Meeting Law that requires a public body to provide copies of communications or notices upon 
request.  Even if the complainant identified a request for those documents (which she has not 
done), we would decline to review this allegation as the Open Meeting Law does not govern 
such requests. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged in the complaint.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this 
determination to be resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may 
be pending with our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 
2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely
,  
   
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
cc:  Jo Ella Tarbutton-Springfield   
 Northampton City Clerk (via email: cclerk@northamptonma.gov)  
 
  
  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  