===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       July 12, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 121 
 
 
Jennifer King, Esq. 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
 
By email only: Jennifer.King@VDHBoston.com
 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney King, 
 
 This office received a complaint from Cathyann Swindlehurst on October 15, 2023, 
alleging that the Marblehead School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
July 31, 2023, and Attorney Colby Brunt responded to the complaint, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated August 22, 2023.  The complaint alleges that the Committee entered 
into executive session for an improper purpose during a July 21, 2023, meeting and discussed the 
Superintendent’s contract outside of a properly posted meeting.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the 
notices and open session minutes of Committee meetings held on June 6, 2023, June 15, 2023, 
June 29, 2023, and July 6, 2023; notices and executive session minutes of Committee meetings 
held on July 21, 2021, and July 31, 2023; and the employment and settlement agreements 
between the Committee and the Superintendent.  In addition, we communicated with you
1 on 
April 29, 2024, and May 9, 2024.   
 
 
 
1 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. 
 
During a meeting held on June 6, 2023, the Committee conducted an evaluation of the 
Superintendent.  Each member shared their individual thoughts on whether the Superintendent 
met or exceeded various goals and standards.  The Committee then unanimously approved a 
motion “to support” the summary evaluation, which found the Superintendent to be “Proficient” 
in all four standards (Instructional Leadership, Management and Operations, Family and 
Community Engagement, and Professional Culture), and to have either met or made significant 
progress toward goals, including professional practice, student learning and district 
improvement.  During the Committee’s next meeting on June 15, 2023, the Committee 
unanimously approved a motion “to accept” the Superintendent’s evaluation for the 2022-2023 
school year. 
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 21, 2023, at 2:00 P.M.  
The notice listed an executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 to “conduct strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel (Superintendent).”     
 
The July 21, 2023, meeting was held as planned.  The Committee convened in open 
session at 2:03 P.M. and Chair Sarah Fox stated that the Committee would enter executive 
session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel.  
The Committee voted by majority vote to convene in executive session and announced that it 
would not reconvene in open session following the conclusion of the executive session.   
 
During the executive session, the Committee discussed the terms of the Superintendent’s 
contract and whether to exercise an early termination clause, as well as possible settlement terms.  
The Committee voted by majority vote to authorize town legal counsel to negotiate a separation 
agreement with the Superintendent.  The Committee then adjourned the meeting.   
 
The Committee duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 31, 2023, at 9:30 
A.M.  The notice listed an executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 to “conduct strategy sessions 
in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel (Superintendent).”     
 
The July 31, 2023, meeting was held as planned.  The Committee convened in open 
session at 9:33 A.M. and Chair Sarah Fox stated that the Committee would enter executive 
session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel.  
The Committee voted by majority vote to convene in executive session and announced that it 
would not reconvene in open session following the conclusion of the executive session.   
 
During the executive session, the Committee discussed terms to include in a settlement 
agreement with the Superintendent and voted by majority vote to not include a “mutual non-
disparagement clause.”  The Committee agreed that the Chair would work with town legal 
counsel to finalize a separation agreement.  In addition, the Committee voted by majority vote to 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
authorize the Chair to enter into discussions with the Assistant Superintendent for Finance and 
Operations to become acting Superintendent.  The Committee then adjourned the meeting.2   
 
During a meeting held on August 11, 2023, the Committee ratified the settlement 
agreement that had been reached with the Superintendent, which stated, in part, that the 
Superintendent would remain on paid leave until December 31, 2023, at which time he would 
resign.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3  Before entering the executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”).   
 
A public body may convene in executive session to “conduc
 t strategy sessions in 
preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining 
sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.”  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2) (“Purpose 
2”).  When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.  See 
District Attorney for the Northwestern Dist. v. Committee of Selectmen of Sunderland, 11 Mass. 
App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (executive session may not be used as a blanket reason to deliberate on 
matters other than those pertaining to the specific purpose for which executive session was 
called). 
 
The c
omplaint challenges the propriety of the Committee’s July 21, 2023, executive 
session discussions.  Here, the Committee convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2 
and discussed the Superintendent’s contract, including an early termination clause, and potential 
terms to be included in a separation agreement.  We find that the Committee’s discussion of a 
 
2 We note that the Committee has released the executive session minutes of both the July 21, 2023, and July 31, 
2023, meetings. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
possible separation agreement fit within the parameters of executive session Purpose 2, as the 
disc
ussions related to strategy in preparation for contract negotiations.  See OML 2017-69 
(finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive session 
strategy with respect to negotiating a separation agreement with Superintendent); OML 2013-
184 (finding that public body did not violate Open Meeting Law by discussing in executive 
session strategy in preparation for renegotiating contract with Superintendent).  We conclude that 
the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session to 
discuss strategy with respect to the Superintendent’s contract and severance agreement during 
the July 21, 2023, meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to conduct contract negotiations with 
nonunion per
sonnel in executive session, but does not authorize a public body to approve a 
contract in executive session.  See OML 2013-91; OML 2011-56; OML 2011-44.  Therefore, 
although a public body may reach an agreement on the terms of a contract in executive session, it 
must subsequently vote to approve or ratify such an agreement in open session.  See OML 2011-
28 (finding that school committee violated the Open Meeting Law by voting to approve  
superintendent's contract addendum in executive session).  Here, the Committee discussed 
set
tlement terms during the two July executive sessions but did not vote to approve any 
agreement during those meetings.  Rather, the Committee approved  the settlement agreement 
during an open meeting held on August 11, 2023. 
 
 The complaint further alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted 
meeting sometime between July 6, 2023, and July 17, 2023.  Specifically, the complaint alleges 
that some members of the Committee must have “made the decision to review” the 
Superintendent’s contract where there was no public discussion or vote during Committee 
meetings held on June 29, 2023, and July 6, 2023, “which would have signaled to voters that the 
newly elected School Committee had chosen to re-open consideration of the Superintendent’s 
status.”   
 
The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a 
public
 body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The 
law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting 
agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the 
distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided than no 
opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” 
is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
This office communicated with Attorney King who asserted on behalf of the Committee  
that “members did not discuss the Superintendent’s contract and/or any possible termination of 
the Superintendent any time between July 6, 2023, and July 17, 2023, outside of any scheduled 
meetings.”  Although we have been presented with no evidence that directly contradicts this 
assertion, we note that in response to a public records request from the Marblehead Currant for 
communications between Committee members that appear related to the Superintendent’s 
contract, the Committee responded that messages on some of its members’ electronic devices, 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
including text messages, had been deleted.  The communications that were the subject of the 
public records request occurred within the same timeframe as the discussion of the 
Superintendent’s contract and pertained to an investigation of a bullying incident involving a 
former girls’ soccer coach and the lack of responsiveness by school administration, including the 
Superintendent.
4  Nonetheless, we find no evidence here that deliberation occurred between 
Committee members about the Superintendent’s contract and, thus, do not find a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.
5  We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law prohibits 
deliberation outside a posted meeting, including through serial communication.    
     
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
      
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
        
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Cathyann Swindlehurst – By email only:   
Marblehead School Committee – By email only: 
schoolcommittee@marbleheadschools.org  
 Marblehead Town Clerk Robin Michaud – By email only: michaudr@marblehead.org 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
4 With her request for further review, the complainant provided to our office 26 Marblehead Currant newspaper 
articles.  Several articles refer to a public records request made by a reporter at the Marblehead Currant  requesting 
text and email messages between Committee members from June 21 , 2023, to August 2, 2023.  According to the 
articles, the communications via text and email appear to relate to the bullying investigation.  
5 We note our concern with the Committee’s practice of discussing Committee business on personal devices without 
retaining those communications and that some members of the Committee failed to produce text messages in 
response to a public records request, asserting that they had been deleted and could not be restored.   However, the 
Open Meeting Law does not govern records retention, and we make no determination as to whether Committee 
members complied with their obligations under separate records retention laws. 
