===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
August 5, 2019 
OML 2019-96
Joseph I. Macy, Esq.
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Macy:
This office received three complaints from Collin Dias on January 16, 2019; February 11, 
2019; and February 19, 2019, alleging that the Fall River Board of Election Commissioners (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on December 20, 2018, January 11, and January 17 and you 
responded to the complaints, on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 19. In his first 
complaint, Mr. Dias alleges that during the Board’s December 20, 2018, meeting, the Fall River 
Corporation Counsel, who is not a member of the Board, “appeared to take over as chair of the 
meeting itself, through his actions.”2 In his second and third complaints, Mr. Dias alleges that 
the Board failed to timely respond to his first and second complaints.
We resolve these complaints by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), after reviewing the original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and 
the request for further review. We decline to review the first complaint as it is not within the 
purview of the Open Meeting Law. On the second and third complaints, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints 
within 14 business days.
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. On December 20, 2018, the Board met to discuss objections related 
to the recall of Fall River Mayor Jasiel F. Correia II. One member of the Board was absent for
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2019 unless specified.
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.
o

===PAGE 2===
this meeting and the chair, Kelly Souza Young, recused herself from the deliberations regarding 
objections to the recall but remained in the room. According to the complaint, after the chair 
recused herself, the City’s Corporation Counsel acted as moderator during the meeting. The 
complaint alleges that although there is no concern with Corporation Counsel acting as 
moderator, the “corporation counsel taking over as chair of the meeting is a violation” of the 
Open Meeting Law.
The Open Meeting Law imposes certain obligations specifically on public body chairs; 
for example, the Law requires that before a public body enters executive session, “the chair shall 
state the purpose for the executive session...” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). We have stated that a 
chair may delegate such responsibility to another individual, such as counsel. See, e.g.. OML 
2016-108. In general, though, the Open Meeting Law does not address who has responsibility 
for handling matters of parliamentary procedure, such as announcing items to be discussed, 
taking votes, enforcing order, or closing a meeting. Where the complaint only alleges generally 
that Corporation Counsel “appeared to take over as chair of the meeting itself, through his 
actions” but does not allege that Corporation Counsel performed any particular tasks that the 
Open Meeting Law specifically requires be performed by the chair or the chair’s designee, we 
find that the complaint does not assert any allegations that, even if true, would constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. As such, we decline to review this complaint. See OML 
Declination 12-22-15 (Groveland Planning Board); OML 2015-39; OML Declination 1-29-15 
(Holbrook Planning Board).
The second and third complaints allege, respectively, that the Board failed to timely 
respond to the first and second complaints. We agree, as the Board did not respond until 
February 19, approximately one month after the third complaint was filed. A public body must 
respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, unless it secures an 
extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). In addition, the public body must send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken, hi Because the Board failed to 
respond to the Open Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days, we find that it violated 
the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the second and third complaints.
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and 
we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Kathryn Droumbakis 
Special Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
2

===PAGE 3===
Assisted by: Stephen Delcuze, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
cc: Collin Dias
Fall River Board of Election Commissioners
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
