===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 29, 2015 
OML 2015-15 
Robert W. Galvin, Esq. 
Marshfleld Town Counsel 
10 Enterprise Street, Suite 3 
Duxbury, MA 02332 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Galvin: 
This office received a complaint from Elaine Taylor on December 16, 2014, alleging that 
the Marshfleld School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint specifically alleges that on September 18, 2014, the 
Committee Chair sent an email to a quorum of the Committee discussing a matter of public 
business within the Committee's jurisdiction. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on December 4, 2014. The Committee responded by letter dated December 10, 2014. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee Chair violated the Open Meeting Law by 
sending an email to a quorum of the Committee regarding public business within the 
Committee's jurisdiction. We do not find that the Chair's action constituted an intentional 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. Further, because the other Committee members did not 
respond to the e-mail, we find that the Committee as a whole did not violate the law. See OML 
2011-37.2 
On September 18, 2014, a former chair of a neighboring school committee sent an email 
to three of the five members of the Committee (a quorum), expressing support for the 
1 The Open Meeting Law requires at least 30 days to have passed from the date the complaint was filed with the 
public body before a complainant may file her complaint with the Attorney General. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
Accordingly, although this complaint was filed with our office 12 days after it was first filed with the Committee, it 
did not become ripe for our review until January 5, 2015. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.mass.gov/aao/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Committee's recent decision to change the name of the school district's winter vacation period 
from "Christmas Vacation" to "Holiday Vacation." The Chair replied to all of the email's 
recipients, writing "I appreciate that you took the time to offer your support to us. I find it 
interesting that a name change such as this is seen as a challenge to one's religious or spiritual 
beliefs." None of the Committee members copied on this email responded to the message. 
The Chair's clear intent in sending the email at issue was to thank the sender, though she 
included the other Committee members in her reply so that they would know that she, as Chair, 
had responded. The Chair did not intend by this email to farther the Committee's discussion of a 
topic already decided by the Committee during an open meeting. Nevertheless, her message 
expressed an opinion on a matter of public business within the Committee's jurisdiction. The 
Open Meeting Taw requires that all communications between and among a quorum of a public 
body on public business within the public body's jurisdiction occur during a noticed meeting. 
G.T. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20. It was therefore improper for the Chair to copy her fellow committee 
members on this email. We remind the Committee that its members may not send emails to a 
quorum regarding matters of public business within the Committee's jurisdiction. Additionally, 
we order the Committee to publicly disclose the September 18, 2014 email exchange, if it has not 
done so already, at its next meeting. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact 
our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Marshfield School Committee 
Elaine Taylor 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 