===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 193 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michele E. Randazzo  
KP Law 
mrandazzo@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on May 20, 2022,
1 alleging that the 
Barnstable County American Rescue Plan Act Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on or about April 21, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated 
May 20. The complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee’s April 21 meeting did not 
include the date and time the notice was posted and that the notice was not timely posted to the 
Committee’s official notice posting location.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find a de minimis violation where the Committee failed to include on 
the notice for its April 21 meeting the date and time the notice was posted. We find that the 
Committee did not otherwise violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for 
further review, and a video recording of the Barnstable County Board of Regional 
Commissioners’ (the “Board”) April 20 meeting.
2  
 
With respect to the first allegation, the Committee acknowledges that it did not include 
on the notice for its April 21 meeting the date and time the notice was posted. Therefore, we find 
a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law with respect to the first allegation.  
 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 A video recording of the Barnstable County Board of Regional Commissioners’ April 20 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xd9FFWmTyDc&list=PLnyke5qp-yawIMeOcfM3u5mPPoFJ078iw&index=5. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
With respect to the second allegation, we find that the Committee was formed to advise 
the Board, thereby functioning as a subcommittee of the Board. See G.L. c. 30A, §18 (“a 
subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.”). As such, the Committee shares the same official notice 
posting location as the Board, which is the County’s website, https://www.barnstablecounty.org. 
See OML 2022-60 (“[W]e consider a public body’s adoption of a website as its official notice 
posting method to apply to all its subcommittees, even those later created.”). Based on the 
information provided, we find that the Committee timely posted notice of its April 21 meeting to 
the County’s website. Therefore, we find no violation with respect to the second allegation.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find a de minimis violation of the Open Meeting Law 
where the Committee failed to record on or with the notice for its April 21 meeting the date and 
time the notice was posted, although we otherwise find the notice was timely and properly 
posted. We find that the Committee otherwise timely and properly posted notice of its April 21 
meeting and did not violate the law in the other ways alleged. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paul Niedzwiecki, Chair Barnstable County American Rescue Plan Act Advisory 
Committee c/o Elizabeth Albert, Barnstable County Administrator (via e-mail: 
balbert@barnstablecounty.org) 
Ronald Beaty (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
