===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 29, 2016 
OML 2016-86 
William Solomon, Esq. 
Stoneham Town Counsel 
319 Main Street 
Stoneham, MA 02180 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Solomon: 
This office received a complaint from Susan Keeler on March 24, 2016, alleging 
that the Stoneham Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 
16, 2016, and former Board Chair Thomas Boussy responded, on behalf of the Board, by 
letter dated March 17, 2016. In her complaint, Ms. Keeler alleges that a quorum of the 
Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the initial complaint, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's January 19, 2016 meeting. Finally, we 
spoke by telephone with Mr. Boussy on May 17, 2016 and reviewed your letter, dated June 
15, 2016, which included an affidavit from you detailing your individual conversations 
with the other four Board members.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. During a Board meeting held on June 10, 2014, the 
Stoneham High School Class of 1982 Beautification Committee (the Beautification 
Committee), a non-profit organization, submitted an initial proposal to the Board for the 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
o 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
installation of a "splash fountain" on the Town Common. Chris Oneschuck, President of 
the Beautification Committee, informed the Board at that time that the Beautification 
Committee "would be back with a more finalized plan." Ms. Oneschuck did not appear 
again before the Board to discuss the project until January 19, 2016. 
Mr. Boussy, who was Board chair during this time, regularly organized and 
participated in community events on the Town Common. Because of Mr. Boussy's 
involvement with these events, he had the opportunity to speak with residents, 
neighborhood groups and business groups, many of whom expressed to him their opinion 
about the proposed fountain project. In September 2015, Ms. Oneschuck reached out to 
the Town Planner to discuss the proposed project. Knowing about Mr. Boussy's 
involvement with the Town Common, the Town Planner asked him to speak with Ms. 
Oneschuck. On September 14, 2015, Mr. Boussy had a conversation with Ms. Oneschuck 
and two other Beautification Committee members. During this conversation, Mr. Boussy 
stated that in order to get the project approved, they would need public support which, he 
said, might be difficult to garner based on the feedback he had received from residents. 
Subsequently, during the January 19, 2016 Board meeting, Ms. Oneschuck 
informed the Board that the project would not go forward, in part, because of her private 
conversation with Mr. Boussy in September. According to Ms. Oneschuck, Mr. Boussy 
said that he and "two other Selectmen" do not want the fountain in the middle of the Town 
Common. Mr. Boussy contended that he did not make that statement and that he did not 
speak with other Board members about the project outside of a meeting. Based on 
Attorney Solomon's affidavit, the other Board members did not communicate about the 
issue outside of a meeting. According to the Board's January 19, 2016 meeting minutes, 
some of the Board members expressed surprise that Mr. Boussy had met with Ms. 
Oneschuck. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly 
noticed and open to members of the public, unless the public body convenes an executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Law's purpose is "to eliminate much of 
the secrecy surrounding deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." 
Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A "meeting" is 
defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an 
oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction^]" Id. 
The complainant alleges that based on Ms. Oneschuck's statement during the 
January 19, 2016 Board meeting—that Mr. Boussy told her that he and two other selectmen 
did not support the fountain—the Board must have discussed the issue outside of a 
meeting. We agree with the complainant that this statement, on its face, might support a 
finding that Mr. Boussy spoke with two other Board members about the project. However, 
2 
===PAGE 3===
based on our review, we find no evidence that the Board actually deliberated outside of a 
meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law. Rather, it appears that Mr. Boussy, on his 
own initiative, spoke with Ms. Oneschuck about the proposed fountain. No other Board 
member was present for this conversation. Furthermore, based on our conversation with 
Mr. Boussy as well as Attorney Solomon's affidavit attesting to his individual 
conversations with the other Board members, there is no evidence that the Board otherwise 
discussed the proposed fountain outside of a meeting. Accordingly, we find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
4anne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Stamm 
Stoneham Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 