===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 13, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 22 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Joseph P. Shea 
Chair, Norfolk Board of County Commissioners 
c/o John J. Cronin, Norfolk County Director  
jcronin@norfolkcounty.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Shea: 
 
This office received a complaint from Marguerite L. Lee, First Assistant Register of 
Deeds in Norfolk County, on July 8, 2025,
1 alleging that the Norfolk Board of County 
Commissioners (the “Commissioners”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Commissioners on or about May 7, and you 
responded on behalf of the Commissioners by letter dated May 23. The complaint alleges that the 
Commissioners posted an insufficiently specific notice for their April 9 meeting and discussed a 
matter not included on the meeting notice. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Commissioners’ response, the request for further review, the notice for and 
minutes of the Commissioners’ April 9 meeting, and a video recording of the April 9 meeting.2 
 
BACKGROUND  
 
The complaint arises from disputes and litigation between the Register of Deeds (the 
“Register”) and the Commissioners and County Director related to the hiring of a Chief 
Information Officer (“CIO”) and requests to transfer funds. The Register and the Commissioners 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The video recording of the Commissioners’ April 9 meeting was accessed at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dDvs6XSY_9E.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
disagreed about hiring a new CIO and the funding for the position; in turn, the Register filed a 
lawsuit seeking declaratory, mandamus, and injunctive relief (the “Personnel Litigation”). While 
that litigation was pending, the Register made several requests to the County Director for 
transfers of funds to pay bills associated with the Personnel Litigation. The County Director did 
not approve the Register’s requests. The Register then commenced a second lawsuit, against the 
Commissioners and County Director, regarding the transfer refusals, again seeking declaratory, 
mandamus, and injunctive relief (the “Transfer Request Litigation”). The cases were 
consolidated. See William P. O’Donnell v. Joseph P. Shea, et al., Norfolk Superior Civil Action, 
No. 2182CV00653 (Docket No. 35). On October 19, 2023, the Norfolk Superior Court granted 
the Register’s motion for summary judgment and denied the Commissioners’ and Director’s 
cross motion for summary judgment. William P. O’Donnell v. John J. Cronin, et al., Norfolk 
Superior Civil Action, No. 2282CV01001 (Docket No. 32). The Superior Court found that with 
respect to the requested transfers at issue, the interference with such transfers was arbitrary and 
capricious and contrary to the law. Id. The Superior Court ordered that the Commissioners and 
Director “refrain from interfering with or otherwise hindering the Register’s lawful transfers . . ., 
and to the extent that the transfers at [issue] in this decision remain outstanding, the defendants 
are ordered to implement them.” Id.  
 
The decision was appealed and the Supreme Judicial Court, sua sponte, transferred the 
case from the Appeals Court. See Register of Deeds for Norfolk Cnty. v. Cnty. Dir. for Norfolk 
Cnty., 495 Mass. 350, 353 (2025). On February 14, the Supreme Judicial Court issued a decision 
affirming the Superior Court’s decision, finding that the Commissioners and the Director did not 
have the authority to deny the requested transfers and ordering that the outstanding amounts 
requested by the Register be specifically authorized by the Commissioners and the Director. Id. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Commissioners posted notice for a meeting to be held 
on April 9 at 1:00 p.m. The notice included, among others, the topic “FY26 3rd Supplemental 
Budget for Approval.”3 The meeting was held as scheduled.  
 
When the Commissioners reached the topic “FY26 3
rd Supplemental Budget for 
Approval,” the Director presented to the Commissioners a spreadsheet and budget adjustment 
sheet related to various supplemental budget and transfer requests, including requests made by 
the Register. The Director discussed a few requests for supplemental funds and transfers of 
funds, the overall supplemental spending for the year, the County’s insurance liability, and the 
Director’s proposal regarding supplemental funding amounts. The Director then came to the 
Register’s requests for supplemental funds, noting the amounts requested and the categories 
implicated.  
 
The Director explained that the Register had projected that there would be a surplus in 
the deeds excise account for fiscal year 2026 and that the Register had suggested that this 
projected surplus be used to offset the request for supplemental funds. The Director then 
 
3 The complainant and the Commissioners acknowledge that reference to “FY26” in the notice was a typographical 
error and that instead the notice should have listed “FY25.” The complaint does not raise allegations with respect to 
this error. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
explained that he did not recommend this course of action and provided two reasons for his 
recommendation: first, the projected surplus funds had not yet been realized and as such they 
could not know that day whether there would in fact be a surplus; second, the Commissioners 
needed to consider any other supplemental needs when addressing the Register’s request. Here, 
the Director explained that he did not believe there were sufficient funds to grant the Register’s 
request because of the Supreme Judicial Court’s order that the Commissioners transfer the funds 
at issue in the Transfer Request Litigation.  
 
The Director explained that, per legal counsel’s advice, he was asking the Commissioners 
to create a new Registry of Deeds settlement reserve account and move $128,000 into that 
account for the purpose of paying any outstanding invoices associated with the Transfer Request 
Litigation. The Director then noted that the meeting packet included an email from legal counsel 
detailing each transfer request subject to the Supreme Judicial Court’s ruling and recommending 
that the Commissioners fund the fiscal year 2023 requests in their totality, directing the Register 
to use the funds exclusively for unpaid bills during fiscal year 2023. The Director then explained 
that these funds would come from the balance of the available supplemental funds for fiscal year 
2026, not from the deeds excise account. The Director then discussed a few additional funding 
requests unrelated to the Register.  
 
When the Director was done presenting the supplemental budget and transfer requests, 
the Commissioners asked a few questions, including clarifying why the Director was 
recommending against using the deeds excise account to fund the Register’s requests. The 
Director explained that there were two reasons: first, the Norfolk County Advisory Board had 
previously moved a large portion of the deeds excise account’s funds to a reserve account until 
the Transfer Request Litigation was resolved; and second, although the Register anticipates a 
surplus in the deeds excise account, those funds were not yet realized. The Director clarified that 
the vote he was proposing the Commissioners take that day would include $128,000 for the 
Register to use for bills related to litigation described in the Supreme Judicial Court’s decision. 
Thereafter, Commissioner Peter Collins moved as follows: 
 
To approve the proposed “ Third Supplemental ” funding and transfer request 
totaling $451,875. Provided further that the appropriation therein of $128,000 of 
County Surplus Funds is to be placed into a new account to be known as 
“Settlement Reserve for Registry of Deeds bills per State Supreme Judicial Court 
ruling on 12/2/24[.”] These funds shall only be used to pay any unpaid bills 
associated with the FY23 transfer requests made by the Registry of Deeds for 
“Miscellaneous Contractual Services [”] (up to $21,000), “Legal Services” (up to 
$75,000) and “ Miscellaneous Professional and Technical Services ” (up to 
$32,000). All such payments shall be made by the Registry of Deeds by August 29, 
2025, and shall include providing detailed invoices reflecting services within the 
FY23 period to the County Treasurer by August 29, 2025. 
 
The motion was seconded and passed unanimously.     
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a “listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The topics must be listed with 
sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 
940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A notice need not include every detail about an anticipated discussion, 
but the law requires that notice topics include “sufficient specificity” so that the public can 
decide whether to attend the meeting and observe the discussions regarding the specific topics 
anticipated for discussion. See OML 2023-108; OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7.
4 When reviewing 
a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a 
meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what the 
public body actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific 
to make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id. We have explained that when a public 
body anticipates reviewing an entire budget or an entire town meeting warrant, for example, it is 
not required to list all the budgetary items or all the warrant articles on its meeting notice. See 
OML 2024-110; OML 2017-185; OML 2012-83. However, when a public body anticipates 
discussing particular budgetary items or articles, it must specifically list them in its meeting 
notice. See OML 2024- 27; OML 2013-8; OML 2011-7. 
 
 The complaint alleges that the notice topic “FY26 3
rd Supplemental Budget for 
Approval” failed “to reasonably advise the public and for that matter any stakeholder that the 
topic to be discussed, at least with respect to the Registry of Deeds, was different and unrelated 
to the Fiscal Year 2025 supplemental budget” and that the Commissioners would vote to 
“transfer . . . funds into a purported ‘settlement reserve’ for FY23 services.” The complainant 
also asserts that “‘Supplemental’ is a term of art, referring to the supplementary budget process 
as outlined in Massachusetts General Law Chapter 35 section 28B(g),” suggesting that the notice 
topic’s reference to a supplemental budget rendered it insufficient with respect to discussion of 
the settlement reserve account. 
 
 After reviewing a recording of the April 9 meeting, we find that the notice was not 
insufficient in the ways alleged in the complaint. We appreciate that the complainants’ superior 
knowledge of the county budgeting process and of the history of the Transfer Request Litigation 
and related matters may have meant that she did not anticipate from the notice topic “FY26 3
rd 
Supplemental Budget for Approval” that the Commissioners would discuss creating a settlement 
reserve fund instead of funding the Register’s supplemental budget requests. However, when 
viewing the discussion as a whole, we find that discussion of the settlement reserve account was 
reasonably related to discussion of the supplement budget and that the notice topic was 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
sufficiently specific to inform the public of the anticipated nature of the discussion. As such, we 
find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.5  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commissioners did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Commissioners or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Marguerite L. Lee, First Assistant Register, Norfolk County Registry of Deeds 
(via email:   
  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 The complaint states that the Commissioners “failed to inform the public that Massachusetts’ Supreme Judicial 
Court (SJC) ruled that County Director John Cronin and the Norfolk County Commissioners violated the law and 
acted unlawfully with respect to the Registry of Deeds.” We note that, in general, the Open Meeting Law does not 
require a public body discuss or publicize any particular topic. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
