===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Gregg J. Corbo 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
April 6, 2017 
OML 2017-53 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received five related complaints from Robert Belbin, dated August 8, 2016, 
alleging that the Carver Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c, 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on June 28, 2016, and the 
Board to all five complaints by letter dated July 19, 2016. In his complaints, Mr. Belbin alleges 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting insufficiently detailed meeting 
notices, (ii) entering executive session without a proper statutory purpose, (iii) creating 
insufficiently detailed meeting minutes; and (iv) improperly redacting portions of executive 
session minutes. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify the 
employee position to be discussed in executive session, and providing insufficient detail on a 
meeting notice. We find that the Board did not violate the law with respect to the other 
allegations. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's 
response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices, 
open session minutes, and executive session minutes of Board meetings held on the following 
dates: March 11 and May 27, 2014; June 5, 2014; January 20 and May 19, 2015. Finally, we 
spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on January 19, 2017.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complaints stem from several sets of executive session 
minutes which the Board released on June 9, 2016. 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 11, 2014. Among the other 
items listed on the notice was an anticipated executive session "to discuss strategy with respect 
to preparation for collective bargaining negotiations with unions and for preparation for non-
union contract negotiations with non-union personnel that may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining position of the town if held in open session, and to reconvene in open session." The 
notice did not identify the non-union personnel with whom the Board would be negotiating. The 
Board convened on March 11, 2014 as planned and entered executive session to discuss 
negotiations with the Town of Carver's wiring inspector. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on May 27, 2014. Among the other 
items listed on the notice was an anticipated executive session described as follows: "Executive 
Session—(Exemption #2, 3, 7) Motion: Move to go into Executive Session to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining negotiations with unions (Clerical, Dispatchers, DPW, 
Police) and for non-union negotiations with all non-union personnel not under contract, and to 
consider the lease or value of taxes for the Southern Sky Renewable Project at the Carver 
Landfill, Borrego Solar Project on Purchase Street that may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining position of the town if held in open session, and to reconvene in open session for 
purpose of adjournment." In this executive session, the Board discussed negotiations with 
Southern Sky Renewable Energy regarding a landfill. The Board also discussed a tax issue with 
a project described as "Borrego." Additionally, the Board discussed a "6 month extension" with 
an entity described as "Entero." Finally, the Board discussed the consolidation of various 
departments within the Town of Carver. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on June 5, 2014. The anticipated 
executive session listed on the notice was the same as the one on the May 27, 2014 notice. 
However, the Board ultimately did not hold an executive session during its June 5, 2014 meeting. 
Nevertheless, the Board released minutes to the complainant labeled as being from June 5, 2014 
which repeat the identical contents as the minutes from May 27, 2014. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on January 20, 2015. The notice 
listed, among other topics, an anticipated executive session described as follows: "Executive 
Session—(Exemption 2, 3, 6) Motion: Move to go into Executive Session to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining negotiations with unions (Clerical, Dispatchers, PEC-Health 
Care, Police) and for non-union negotiations with all non-union personnel not under contract, 
and strategy for litigation (Officer Harriman), and strategy for purchase, exchange, lease or value 
of real estate that may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the town if held in 
open session, and to reconvene in open session for the purpose of adjournment." In this 
executive session, the Board discussed collective bargaining issues, a contract with an individual, 
and the value of a parcel of land on Route 44 in Carver that was the subject of an urban renewal 
plan under consideration. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on May 19, 2015. The notice listed, 
among other topics, an anticipated executive session described as follows: "Executive Session— 
(Exemption #2, 3, 6) Motion: Move to go into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining negotiations with unions (Clerical, DPW, Dispatchers, PEC/IAC- Health 
Care, Police) and for non-union negotiations (Town Administrator) and with all non-union 
personnel not under contract, and strategy for litigation, solar pilots as authorized by Town 
Meeting, and for purchase, exchange, lease or value of real estate that may have a detrimental 
2 
===PAGE 3===
effect on the bargaining position of the town if held in open session, and to reconvene in open 
session for purpose of adjournment." In this executive session, the Board discussed two real 
estate transactions, as well as a "Financing Power Purchase Agreement" involving a contract 
with Entero. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice of each meeting and include in that notice a "listings of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list 
topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to 
be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in an announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See District Attornev for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper."); see G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
I. The Board Entered Executive Session for a Proper Purpose on March 11, 2014. 
However, the Board Failed to State the Name of the Employee Being Discussed. 
One complaint alleges that the Board lacked a proper purpose for entering executive 
session on March 11, 2014, and that the Board failed to identify the individual employee whose 
contract the Board was negotiating. A public body may enter executive session "[t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). When convening in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must 
identify the nonunion personnel with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not 
compromise the purpose for secrecy. See OML 2013-151.2 While we generally defer to a public 
body's assessment of whether the inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose 
for the executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for such a 
claim if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
During the March 11, 2014 meeting, the Board discussed strategy regarding contract 
negotiations with the wiring inspector. This fit squarely within the ambit of Purpose 2. G.L. c. 
3OA, § 21(a)(2). Accordingly, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to that allegation. However, in its response, the Board did not provide a reason why the 
Board could not disclose in the notice that it would be discussing the wiring inspector's contract. 
We conclude that the inclusion of this information would not have compromised the Board's 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
negotiating position. Accordingly, it should have been included on the notice, and its omission 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-133.3 
II. The Board's May 27. 2014 Meeting Agenda Was Not Sufficiently Detailed. One 
Topic Discussed During this Executiye Session Should Have Been Discussed in 
Open Session. 
One complaint alleges that the Board's May 27, 2014 meeting notice was not sufficiently 
detailed because it did not adequately describe the topics to be discuss in executive session. The 
notice stated the collective bargaining units to be discussed, and it stated the names of two 
projects discussed during the executive session. Southern Sky Renewable Energy at Carver 
Landfill and Borrego Solar Project on Purchase Street. However, the notice did not list the name 
of the third project discussed during the executive session, Entero.4 The Board has not identified 
any reason why the Entero project could not be listed on the meeting notice. We therefore find 
that its omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-161. 
While not raised in the complaint, we note that the Board's discussion concerning the 
consolidation of Town departments was not appropriate for executive session. We have 
concluded in the past that such wide-ranging financial discussions are akin to budget discussions, 
and must therefore take place in open session. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-30. We remind 
the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
III. Because the Board did not Convene in Executive Session on June 5. 2014. the 
Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Where no meeting takes place, the requirements of the Open Meeting Law are not 
triggered. See OML 2015-163. Here, a complaint alleges that the June 5, 2014 executive 
session minutes are inaccurate, as they are merely a rehash of the May 11, 2014 minutes. The 
Board, in fact, did not hold an executive session on June 5, 2014. It is unclear how there came to 
be a copy of the May 11, 2014 minutes with an incorrect date. Nevertheless, because the Board 
did not convene in executive session on June 5, 2014, we find no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to this allegation. See OML 2015-21. 
IV. The January 20. 2015 Notice was Sufficiently Detailed and the Minutes of that 
Meeting are Sufficiently Specific. 
A complaint alleges that the Board's January 20, 2015 notice was insufficiently detailed 
because it failed to list an anticipated discussion topic. Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
3 Complaints alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law must be filed with the public body alleged to have 
violated the law within 30 days of the date of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). If the alleged violation 
could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
Typically, a complaint alleging a deficiency in a meeting notice must be filed within 30 days of the meeting at issue. 
Here, the complainant could understand the context of the executive session discussions only once the minutes of 
those executive sessions were released. Because the present complaint was filed within 30 days of the executive 
session minutes being released, we review the allegations. 
4 These projects were discussed in the context of the value of certain leases and the potential revenue to be received 
by the town. See OML 2016-4 (public body permissibly entered executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) to 
discuss value of a lease of land). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
the notice failed to list the discussion of "Route 44." This discussion concerned the potential 
adoption of an urban renewal plan. Intrinsic in this discussion was a consideration of whether 
the Town of Carver should negotiate with several property owners to purchase property abutting 
Route 44. Because the Board reasonably believed that disclosing identifying information about 
the urban renewal plan or the properties at issue would compromise the Town's negotiating 
position, we conclude that the Board was justified in omitting identifying information from the 
meeting notice. See QML 2016-50. 
Further, the complaint alleges that the January 20, 2015 meeting minutes are 
insufficiently detailed with respect to discussion of the police contract. Minutes must include a 
summary of the discussion on each topic, however a transcript is not required and minutes need 
not include every remark made during a meeting. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. To be 
compliant with the law's requirements, minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2015-61. Here, while the complaint argues that 
the minutes lack detail, the essence of the argument is that the Board should have discussed the 
police contract in greater depth, including specifying where certain funding would come from. 
We find that the January 20, 2015 executive session minutes accurately summarize the 
discussion that took place. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this allegation.5 
V. The May 19, 2015 Notice was Sufficientlv Detailed and the Minutes of that 
Meeting are Sufficiently Detailed. The Board was Permitted to Withhold Portions 
of the Executive Session Minutes. 
One complaint alleges that the Board's May 19, 2015 meeting notice was not sufficiently 
detailed because it did not describe the real estate matters under discussion. The Board 
reasonably believed that disclosing it would have compromised the town's negotiating position. 
As discussed above, it was permissible for the Board to omit that information. See OML 2016-
50. The complaint also alleges that the minutes of the May 19, 2015 meeting are insufficiently 
detailed. Specifically, the complaint argues that the minutes should contain more information 
about the Eversource project. We disagree. While additional information about the project may 
have been helpful to members of the public, we find that the minutes accurately summarize the 
brief discussion that took place. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this 
allegation. 
Finally, this complaint contends that the Board should not have redacted a portion of the 
May 29, 2015 minutes. Executive session minutes may be withheld if publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). In its response, 
the Board states that the original executive session purpose continues to apply for certain 
portions of the May 29, 2015 executive session discussion. Based on our conversation with the 
Board's legal counsel, we credit this statement and we find that the Board permissibly withheld 
portions of the executive session minutes. M. 
5 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the police contract should have been discussed in open session, we 
note that, as stated above, a public body may convene in executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining. G.L, c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
5 
===PAGE 6===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to identify the position to be discussed in executive session, and providing insufficient 
detail on a meeting notice. Wc order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Carver Board of Selectmen 
Robert Belbin 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 