===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 17, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 71 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Timothy J. Barber 
Director, Dartmouth Department of Public Works 
759 Russells Mills Rd. 
Dartmouth, MA 02748-1106 
 
tbarber@town.dartmouth.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Barber: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on February 7, 2024, alleging that 
the Dartmouth Board of Public Works (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about January 20, and 
you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated February 6.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Board (1) convened in executive session on January 18 without following proper procedure to do 
so; and (2) failed to respond to a prior Open Meeting Law complaint within the time allowed by 
law.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
failed to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days.  We find that it 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged in the complaint.  In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  We also reviewed the notice of the Board’s January 18 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also states that the Board “[l]isted an executive session to deliberate and respond to open meeting 
law complaints…” and “[h]eld the illegal executive session to deliberate and direct the response be issued by 
Timothy J. Barber….”  We assume that these enumerated actions are included as background for the alleged 
violations and are not alleged to be independent violations.  To the extent that the complainant alleges that a public 
body may not meet in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, w e note that our office has 
unequivocally stated in numerous past determinations that public bodies may meet in executive session under 
Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law complaints against the body or its members.   See OML 2023-109; OML 
2021-194; OML 2015-105. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting and viewed the recording of the January 18 meeting, including a portion of the recording 
that is not shown on the recording available online.3  We communicated by email with the Board 
on March 29 and with Dartmouth Community Media on April 2 and April 3. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
January 18.  The notice stated that the meeting would be held via Zoom, and provided a link, 
meeting ID, and passcode for the public to access the meeting via Zoom.  The Board convened 
its meeting on January 18 via Zoom, and Dartmouth Community Media recorded the meeting.   
 
The complaint at issue in this matter is not the first that Patrick Higgins has filed with the 
Board.  During the Board’s January 18  meeting, the Board met in executive session to discuss 
complaints that Mr. Higgins had filed with the Board on December 27, 2023 and January 10.
4  
After voting to enter executive session, but prior to commencement of the executive session, the 
Board chair announced: “The Board intends to reconvene at the close of the executive session.”  
Town counsel, who was in attendance, then asked “DCTV, have you stopped recording?”5  
Dartmouth Community Media’s recording of the January 18 meeting, which is available online, 
ends prior to the chair’s announcement and counsel’s question.  However, according to 
Dartmouth Community Media, the public Zoom connection was paused for executive session 
only after the announcement about reconvening and counsel’s question.   
 
 During the January 18 executive session, the Board discussed and approved responses to 
the prior two complaints.  The responses were signed that same day.  However, due to 
administrative oversight, the response to the December 27, 2023, complaint was not emailed to 
the complainant or to our office until January 22.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Followed Proper Procedures When Convening in Executive Session. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a 
public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that 
a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has “publicly 
announce[d] whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.”  
 
3 The recording, which does not include the chair’s announcement, can be accessed at https://youtu.be/j0a3ltxH_RQ .  
Our office also viewed a recording of the meeting, which included a brief segment that was not included in the 
version available online, as described below. 
4 The discussion to enter executive session commenced at approximately 1:02 of the recording; the vote is at 1:04.   
5 We assume “DCTV” references Dartmouth Community Television.  The recording was terminated immediately 
after counsel asked the question.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2021-84; OML 2014-94.6  If the public will be required 
to access the meeting remotely, the public must be provided an “adequate, alternative means” of 
access that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those 
activities are occurring.  See Section 20 of Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021, An Act Relative to 
Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency; see also OML 
2021-630; OML 2020-102.  A public body is not required to post a recording of its meetings 
online.  See OML 2020-96. 
 
The complainant alleges that the Board “[a]djourned the meeting without taking the 
necessary steps to enter an executive session” but does not specify what procedures were not 
followed.  The complaint references a recording of the meeting, which is available online.  That 
recording reflects that prior to entering executive session, the Board convened in open session; 
articulated a valid executive session purpose; and voted by roll call to enter executive session.  
The recording available online does not reflect that prior to entering executive session, the chair 
announced that the Board would return to open session after the executive session.  However, we 
are satisfied, based on the available information, that members of the public who accessed the 
meeting via Zoom would have heard the announcement.  Because the method of “adequate, 
alternative” access to the Board’s January 18 meeting, as clearly stated on the meeting notice, 
was Zoom, the fact that the DCTV recording ended before the announcement was made does not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
II. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to respond to the 
December 27 complaint within 14 business days. 
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a public body must, within 14 business days of 
receipt of a complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the attorney general and notify the 
attorney general of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  The Board acknowledges 
that it did not send its response to the December 27, 2023, complaint until January 22.  As the 
response was sent more than 14 business days after receipt of the complaint, the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  We appreciate that the Board has committed to respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints in a timely manner going forward.  However, as to the Board’s 
comment that the missed deadline was a “secretarial” mistake, we note that ultimately it is the 
Board’s responsibility to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law, not that of staff.  See, 
e.g., OML 2022-185 (“If staff resources are not available to create meeting notices or minutes, 
then public body members must take on this responsibility themselves to ensure compliance with 
the Law.”); OML 2013-123 (“While the certification forms must be submitted to and retained by 
the clerk, compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s certification provisions remains the 
responsibility of public bodies and public body members.”)    
 
Finally, we must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an 
intentional one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 
29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  Here, the Board prepared its response to the December 27, 2023, 
complaint within 14 days but neglected to send it to the complainant and our office until the 
deadline had passed.  Moreover, we have not previously warned the Board about this specific 
requirement.  Therefore, we find that the violation was not intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it failed to send its response to the December 27, 2023 complaint within 14 business days.  
We do not find a violation in the other ways alleged.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
Dartmouth Town Clerk (via email: shaskellarruda@town.dartmouth.ma.us) 
Dartmouth Town Counsel (via email: anthony@savastanolawfirm.com) 
Dartmouth Town Administrator (via email: smacinnes@town.dartmouth.ma.us) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
