===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 21, 2015 
OML 2015-193 
Gordon Clark, Chair 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Clark: 
This office received two related complaints from Sue Lisio, both dated November 19, 
alleging that the Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Both complaints were originally filed with the Board on October 13, 
and the Board responded to both complaints by letter dated October 29. In her complaints, Ms. 
Lisio alleges that on two occasions the Board failed to provide sufficient information regarding 
anticipated executive session discussion topics. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to a meeting that took place on September 15. However, we find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law with regard to a meeting that took place on October 13. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the meeting notices and 
minutes of the two Board meetings at issue. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board posted notice of a meeting to take place on 
September 15. Among other topics, the notice for this meeting listed an anticipated executive 
session "pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, s. 21(a)(2) to conduct contract negotiations with non-union 
personnel." No further information was given regarding this anticipated discussion. The Board 
held the September 15 meeting as planned, and, indeed, entered executive session for the same 
reason stated on the meeting notice. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on October 13. The notice for this 
meeting, like the September 15 one, listed an anticipated executive session "pursuant to G.L. c. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
===PAGE 2===
3OA, s. 21(a)(2) to conduct contract negotiations with non-union personnel." While the October 
13 meeting was held as planned, the Board did not discuss this anticipated topic, either in 
executive session or otherwise. Indeed, the Board did not convene in executive session at all on 
October 13. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law provides that notice of every meeting must be 
posted "at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal 
holidays," and that every notice shall include "the date, time and place of such meeting, and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list the topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). 
The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter executive session and conduct 
deliberations outside of public view for ten specific purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One 
appropriate purpose for executive session is, "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). When a public 
body enters into a Puipose 2 executive session, the body generally must identify the specific 
nonunion employee or employees with whom it is negotiating. See OML 2014-90; OML 2014-
50; OML 2011-56. This information must be included unless doing so would compromise the 
public body's negotiating position. See OML 2015-37. While we generally defer to public 
bodies' assessment of whether the inclusion of such details would compromise the purpose for 
an executive session, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim 
if challenged. See OML 2015-14. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the September 15 meeting notice provides insufficient 
detail about the anticipated executive session. Neither the notice nor the verbal statement made 
prior to entering executive session identified the nonunion personnel to be discussed. The Board 
has not identified a specific harm that would have occurred if the personnel had been identified. 
Indeed, the Board's response stated the omission of this information was "an oversight." We 
therefore conclude that the Board's negotiating position would not have been harmed by the 
disclosure of this information, and we find that its omission violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2015-132. 
The complaint also alleges that the October 13 meeting notice was similarly insufficient. 
However, the executive session topic at issue was not discussed at this meeting. A meeting 
notice must include sufficient detail to tell the public what matters will be discussed; where 
nothing is discussed, there cannot be insufficient notice of the discussion. See OML 2015-37. 
Thus, when a public body does not actually engage in any executive session deliberation, the 
Open Meeting Law is not violated with respect to the sufficiency of the meeting notice. See 
OML 2014-81. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because 
the Board failed to follow proper procedure in convening its September 15 executive session, the 
Board may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the basis for continuing to withhold the 
minutes of that executive session. See G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive session may 
be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes 
of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law). However, attorney-client privilege or one or more exemptions under the 
Public Records Law may allow the Board to withhold the minutes, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure. Id 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
Siprprplv 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sue Lisio 
3 