===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 2, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 28 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas Crotty, Esq.  
Fairhaven Town Counsel 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Crotty: 
 
This office received a complaint from Andrew Jones on August 28, 2020,1 alleging that 
the Fairhaven Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 29, and the Chair of the Board, 
Peter DeTerra, responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 11. The complaint 
alleges that the Board failed to properly post notice 48 hours in advance of its July 28 meeting 
and that notice for the July 28 meeting was insufficiently detailed with respect to the location of 
the meeting and the sole topic to be discussed at the meeting.2 
 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The Complainant raised additional concerns in subsequent communications with our office. We decline to review 
these additional concerns as they were not included in the complaint filed with the Board. See OML 2019-76; OML 
2012-92. Additionally, in subsequent communications with our office, the Complainant stated that one of his 
concerns with respect to the accuracy of the location as stated on the meeting notice was that individuals other than 
Board members were allowed to attend the July 28 meeting in person. We find that this allegation was not clearly 
raised in the complaint and we decline to review it. Nonetheless, we note that, based on the evidence before us, only 
the Chair, the Vice Chair, the candidate being discussed, and an individual who assisted with the technology 
necessary to allow public access were physically present at the meeting. The Complainant contends that there were 
additional individuals physically present at the meeting who could only be seen during the live stream via Zoom, 
though such individuals are not visible on the video recording of the meeting, and the Chair denies any other such 
individuals were present. Furthermore, a public body may invite specific individuals to attend a meeting in person, 
such as those who will be directly participating in a matter on the agenda, while providing adequate, alternative 
access to the general public, though the public body must not act arbitrarily in making that distinction. See OML 
2020-159.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely post notice 
for its July 28 meeting. Additionally, we find the Board violated the Law by including an 
insufficiently detailed topic on the notice for its July 28 meeting. We find the Board did not 
violate the Law in the other way alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, video recordings of 
relevant Board meetings,3 and the notice for the July 28 meeting. We also communicated with 
the Complainant; Town Counsel;4 the Chair, Peter DeTerra; and the Vice Chair, Michael 
Ristuccia.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Fairhaven’s official notice posting location is 
its municipal website, http://www.Fairhaven-MA.gov. On July 16, during an open session 
meeting of the Board, the Town’s Health Agent informed the Board that she would be taking 
medical leave beginning the next day through August 17. On July 20, the Chair authorized Sarah 
Dupont to begin working as the Town’s Interim Health Agent.5   
 
On July 20, Town Hall closed to the public and town employees because an employee 
tested positive for the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“Covid-19”). Town Hall remained closed until 
July 27. On July 23, the Chair created a notice for a meeting to be held on July 28 at 4:00 p.m. 
The Chair attempted to post the meeting notice by calling Town Hall twice during the time it was 
closed, but no one answered the phone. The Chair made no other attempt to post the notice for 
the July 28 meeting until he went to Town Hall on July 27, the day it reopened. Likewise, the 
Vice Chair made no attempt to ensure the notice for the July 28 meeting was timely posted. 
 
Notice for the July 28 meeting was provided to the Clerk on July 27 at 9:07 a.m. and was 
posted to the Town’s website that morning at 9:42 a.m. The notice identified the “place” of the 
meeting as “REMOTE VIA ZOOM” and included instructions for how to access the meeting 
remotely, including a link, phone number, meeting ID, and password. The meeting notice 
included one substantive topic to be discussed: “Before the Board: Hiring of Personnel.” 
 
The Board convened a meeting on July 28 at 4:00 p.m., during which it interviewed, and 
voted to hire, Ms. Dupont for the position of Interim Health Agent. The Board met in the 
Banquet Room of the Fairhaven Town Hall but provided the public with real-time access to the 
meeting via Zoom. Present in person at the meeting were the Chair, Vice Chair, Ms. Dupont, and 
an individual who assisted with the technology necessary to allow remote public access.  
 
 
 
 
 
3 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://livestream.com/fairhavenlive/events/7292513. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
5 The Chair and Town Counsel have explained that although the Chair authorized the Interim Health Agent to begin 
work on July 20, the Chair did not have authority to do so and for that reason the Interim Health Agent was working 
on a limited, emergency basis. Regardless, on July 20, an Interim Health Agent had been identified and had begun 
working for the Town in some capacity.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency, . . . a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open 
Meeting Law defines an emergency as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of 
circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. The burden of 
justifying the need for an emergency meeting falls on the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
OML 2012-7. “In an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible 
prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must continue to post notice of every 
meeting using the official notice posting method (physical notice or website), even if the clerk’s 
office is closed. See OML 2020-102.6  
 
Meeting notices must contain the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing 
of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of 
topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. 
 
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
Covid-19. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 
20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive Order temporarily 
suspends the requirement under the Open Meeting Law that meetings be held in locations that 
are physically accessible to the public, provided that the public body provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access. The Executive Order also suspends the requirement that a 
quorum of the public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location, and 
instead allows all members of the public body to participate in the meeting remotely.  
 
I. The Board Violated the Law by Failing to Timely Post Notice for Its July 28 Meeting. 
 
Although the notice for the July 28 meeting stated that it was an “Emergency Meeting,” 
we find that the July 28 meeting did not satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“emergency” so as to relieve the Board of the requirement to post notice 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting. The Board became aware on July 16 that it needed to hire an Interim Health Agent. 
By July 20, the Board was aware that it would need to meet specifically for the purpose of 
formally hiring Ms. Dupont as the Interim Health Agent. On July 23, the Chair created a notice 
for the July 28 meeting. Based on these facts, we find that the circumstances surrounding the 
hiring of Ms. Dupont as Interim Health Agent on July 28 were neither unexpected nor has the 
Board shown that the matter required immediate action that could not wait one additional day so 
that proper notice could be posted.  
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
The Board argues further that the closure of Town Hall from July 20 to July 27 created an 
additional emergency that relieved the Board of the requirement to post notice for its July 28 
meeting 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Although the closure of Town Hall might explain 
why the notice was not posted in a timely manner, it did not render the July 28 meeting an 
emergency, nor did the closure relieve the Board of the requirement to post notice 48 hours in 
advance of the meeting. See OML 2020-102. Therefore, we find the Board violated the Law 
where it posted notice for its July 28 meeting less than 48 hours prior to the meeting. 
 
The timely posting of meeting notices is a basic and foundational requirement of the 
Open Meeting Law. The Chair has explained that he called Town Hall twice while it was closed 
in an attempt to post notice of the Board’s July 28 meeting. When no one answered the telephone 
at Town Hall, the Chair made no other attempts to post the meeting notice until Town Hall 
reopened on July 27, explaining that he is “not a big email person.” When confronted with the 
fact that other public bodies successfully posted meeting notices during the time Town Hall was 
physically closed, Town Counsel noted that had the Board been more “email savvy” the Board 
likely could have posted timely notice for its July 28 meeting. The Vice Chair also made no 
effort to ensure the timely posting of the meeting notice. Although we do not find that the Board 
acted intentionally to hide the meeting from the public or to violate the Open Meeting Law, as it 
did post notice soon after Town Hall reopened a day in advance of the meeting, we advise the 
Board that its efforts to post notice while Town Hall was closed were inadequate; that the Board 
should have postponed its meeting if it could not post timely notice; and that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law and could result in a civil 
penalty of up to $1000.7    
 
II. The Notice for the July 28 Meeting Was Insufficiently Detailed With Respect to a 
Topic for Discussion, But Not With Respect to the Meeting Location. 
 
 The notice for the Board’s July 28 meeting included one substantive topic for discussion: 
“Before the Board: Hiring of Personnel.” Because the Chair knew more than 48 hours before the 
meeting that the Board would discuss hiring an Interim Health Agent, and also knew the identity 
of the specific individual being considered for that position, the notice should have included both 
the title of the position as well as the name of the candidate under consideration. See OML 2012-
90; OML 2017-168. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include this 
information on the notice for the July 28 meeting.   
 
The complaint also alleges that the notice for the July 28 meeting was insufficient with 
respect to the location of the meeting where the notice stated that the meeting would be held via 
Zoom, but Board members and other individuals attended the meeting in person. For meetings 
 
7 In support of his request that we find an intentional violation, the Complainant provided an email that a member of 
the Fairhaven Board of Selectmen sent to the Board’s Chair and Vice Chair on July 27 warning them that the notice 
for the July 28 meeting was not properly posted and citing language from the Attorney General’s Open Meeting 
Law regulations regarding notice posting requirements. In the past, we have found an intentional violation when a 
public body disregarded a clear warning from a member of the public or other person that the public body’s actions 
would violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-41. Here, however, neither the Chair nor the Vice Chair 
acknowledges having received and read the email prior to the July 28 meeting, and there is no suggestion that the 
posting deficiency was raised to the Board during the July 28 meeting. See OML 2011-39; OML 2017-85.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
held in accordance with the Executive Order, the “place” of a meeting may be different for the 
members of the public body than it is for the public. Section (1) of the Executive Order allowing 
public access through adequate, alternative means is independent from Section (2), which allows 
members of the public body to participate remotely. A public body may conduct its proceedings 
in person while requiring members of the public to access the meeting via adequate, alternative 
means. See OML 2020-100. To satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meetings be 
open and accessible to the public, a meeting notice must inform the public of the “place” where it 
can access the meeting. See OML 2020-102 (“If access to the meeting will be provided through 
‘adequate, alternative means,’ the meeting notice must include clear instructions for accessing 
the meeting remotely.”) The Complainant concedes that the notice included the necessary and 
correct information for the public to access the meeting via Zoom. Therefore, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law when the notice for its July 28 meeting included the 
information necessary for the public to access the meeting remotely, but did not specify that 
Board members would attend the meeting in person. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely post notice for its July 28 meeting. Additionally, we find the Board violated the 
Law by including an insufficiently detailed topic on the notice for its July 28 meeting. We find 
the Board did not violate the Law in the other way alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Andrew Jones (via email:   
Peter DeTerra, Chair of the Fairhaven Board of Health (via e-mail: 
  
Fairhaven Board of Health (via e-mail:  
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
