===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 24, 2012 
OML 2012 - 05 
Lauren Goldberg 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint — Hardwick Planning Board and Board 
of Selectmen  
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
Our office has reviewed a complaint filed by Adam Kurth on behalf of New 
Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC ("AT&T"), dated June 23, 2011, alleging violations of the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Hardwick Planning Board and Board 
of Selectmen. The complaint specifically alleges that "[o]ri March 14, 2011, the 
Hardwick Board of Selectmen and Planning Board convened an improperly noticed, 
improperly convened Executive Session to discuss 'threatened litigation' involving an 
AT&T matter pending before the Planning Board...There was no pending or threatened 
litigation, and no proper basis to enter Executive Session." The complaint was originally 
filed with the two Boards on April 11, 2011. The Boards responded by letter, through 
their attorney, on April 29, 2011. 
We find that the two Boards did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering 
executive session at a March 14, 2011 joint meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the April 11, 2011 complaint, the Boards' April 29, 2011 response, and the June 
23, 2011 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed a letter from the 
Boards, dated August 24, 2011, sent to our office in response to the June 23, 2011 
complaint. Finally, we reviewed, in camera, the executive session minutes from the 
March 14, 2011 joint meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
AT&T applied to the Hardwick Planning Board for a special permit to build a 
cellular tower in Hardwick. The Planning Board informed AT&T that it would need the 
assistance of two outside consultants to help them evaluate AT&T's permit application, 
and would require AT&T to pay the Town's consultant fees before reviewing the 
application, pursuant to G.L. c. 44, § 53G. One of the consultants was attorney Patricia 
Cantor, of Kopelman & Paige. Kopelman & Paige is also Town Counsel for Hardwick. 
On February 25, 2011, AT&T submitted a letter to the Board objecting to the designation 
of Patricia Cantor as a consultant and refusing to pay her fees. AT&T argued that there 
was a conflict in hiring Town Counsel as an outside consultant because counsel is not 
really "outside" and, furthermore, while AT&T would pay the consultant fees, it should 
not have to pay the Town's legal fees. AT&T also argued that lawyers are not within the 
scope of the term "outside consultant" as defined in G.L. c. 44, § 53G. Finally, AT&T 
requested that the Board of Selectmen schedule a hearing on its appeal of the Planning 
Board's consultant selection. The letter did not threaten litigation. 
Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44, Section 53G allows for an 
administrative appeal regarding the selection of a consultant, limited to the proposed 
consultant's conflict of interest or lack of minimum qualifications. On March 9, 2011, 
the two Boards posted a meeting notice for March 14, 2011, including a topic listed as 
"Executive Session/Board of Selectmen & Planning Board Re: To discuss strategy with 
respect to threatened litigation." The Board of Selectmen also scheduled a hearing on 
AT&T's administrative appeal of the consulting fees for later in the same meeting. In 
response to this notice, AT&T sent a letter to the two Boards objecting to the executive 
session, stating that "[t]here is no 'threatened litigation' in the AT&T matter," and 
requested that the Boards proceed in open session. On March 14, 2011, the Boards met 
in executive session with attorney Patricia Cantor, and discussed the legal consequences 
of potential actions it may take in response to AT&T's appeal of the consultant issue. 
Following the executive session, the Board of Selectmen held a public hearing on 
AT&T's appeal of the Planning Board's choice to use Patricia Cantor as an outside 
consultant. At the hearing, Attorney Adam Kurth presented on behalf of AT&T. 
Following the hearing, the Board voted 2-0 to deny the appeal. 
On March 21, 2011, AT&T paid the deposit for Patricia Cantor's consultant fee. 
In an accompanying letter, AT&T stated that it was paying the fee "under protest," and 
that "AT&T does intend to litigate the legality of the Planning Board's regulation and the 
Planning Board's requirement that AT&T must pay for Town Counsel's services in this 
manner, as well as the Board of Selectmen's denial of AT&T's administrative challenge 
to that requirement." AT&T filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the two Boards 
on April 11, 2011, challenging the March 14, 2011 executive session. AT&T filed a 
complaint in Worcester Superior Court on May 13, 2011, challenging the consultant fees. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted 
in an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may 
2 
===PAGE 3===
enter a closed, executive session for one of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. One purpose for executive session is Purpose 3, "[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares." Id. at § 21(a)(3). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke 
executive session Purpose 3. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently 
threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston,  17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); see also  Attorney General's Open Meeting 
Law Guide, March 24, 2011 at page 8. 
The Town argues that AT&T's February 25, 2011 and March 14, 2011 letters put 
the Town on notice of threatened litigation, and that AT&T's March 21, 2011 letter is 
evidence of its intent to litigate. The Town further argues that the executive session was 
appropriate to receive legal advice on the implications of a legal challenge to the 
Planning Board's decision to charge AT&T consultant fees for a lawyer. AT&T 
disagrees, arguing that it never threatened litigation, nor was litigation demonstrably 
likely at the time, and therefore the Board of Selectmen should not have entered into 
executive session with the Planning Board and Town Counsel under Purpose 3. 
Town Counsel, Patricia Cantor, made a professional judgment based on the 
actions of AT&T and its counsel that litigation over the consultant fee issue was 
demonstrably likely if the Board of Selectmen denied AT&T's appeal. She met with the 
two Boards in executive session on March 14, 2011 to discuss their legal exposure and 
the threat of litigation. We reviewed the executive session minutes of both the Planning 
Board and the Board of Selectmen from the March 14th meeting. Because these minutes 
have not yet been released by the two Boards, we cannot recount their content here. 
However, it was clear from reviewing the minutes that the discussion with counsel 
focused on what counsel believed to be a threat of litigation by AT&T, and the legal 
exposure to the Boards in pursuing different options in resolving AT&T's appeal of the 
consulting fees. There does not appear to have been any substantive discussion of the 
appeal itself, as that occurred in open session following the executive session. 
That AT&T sent a letter one week after the March 14, 2011 executive session, 
stating that "AT&T does intend to litigate the legality of the Planning Board's regulation 
and the Planning Board's requirement that AT&T must pay for Town Counsel's services 
in this manner, as well as the Board of Selectmen's denial of AT&T's administrative 
challenge to that requirement," is not in of itself evidence that litigation was imminently 
threatened on March 14, 2011. However, it does provide support to the Town's position 
that it perceived AT&T's actions in the appeal as imminently threatening litigation, even 
though AT&T did not explicitly threaten litigation. In fact, AT&T specifically stated in a 
March 14, 2011 letter—the same day as the executive session—that "Where is no 
'threatened litigation' in the AT&T matter." Despite this statement, looking at all that 
transpired prior to that date, it was reasonable for Attorney Cantor to anticipate litigation 
in response to certain actions the Boards might take, and to advise the Boards of the 
potential legal consequences of these actions. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to 
pending or imminently threatened litigation only. Therefore, it would not have been 
appropriate for the Boards to use the potential for litigation by AT&T as a pretext for 
deciding or discussing the merits of the appeal in executive session. While the executive 
session minutes reflect some discussion of the appeal and the Board's options in deciding 
it, it appears the discussion focused on the litigation consequences and not the merits of 
AT&T's appeal. AT&T still had the opportunity to present its position to the Board of 
Selectmen in open session, and the Board of Selectmen deliberated on the appeal in open 
session before voting to deny it. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Hardwick Planning Board and 
Board of Selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on March 14, 2011. We appreciate the cooperation and patience of the parties 
while we reviewed this complaint. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have any questions or believe any of the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
J V athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Adam Kurth, Anderson & Kreiger, LLP 
Stephen Anderson, Anderson & Kreiger, LLP 
4 