===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 13, 2016 
OML2016- 126 
Jennifer Modica, Chair 
Uxbridge Board of Selectmen 
21 South Main Street 
Uxbridge, MA 01569 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Modica: 
This office received two related complaints from Gerald Baker alleging that the Uxbridge 
Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
first complaint was filed with the Board on April 20, and Town Manager David Genereux 
responded by letter dated April 21.' It does not appear that the Board itself responded to this 
complaint. The first complaint was then filed with our office on July 21. The second complaint 
was filed with the Board on June 23, and the Board responded by letter dated July 6. This 
second complaint was filed with our office on August 11. In his complaints, Mr. Baker alleges 
that the Board deliberated outside of a noticed meeting on two occasions. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaints, the responses, and the requests for further 
review filed with our office. Finally, we spoke with Town Manager David Genereux by 
telephone on September 7. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Town of Uxbridge (the "Town") utilizes an open Town 
Meeting form of government. On April 9, the Town of Uxbridge held a session of Town 
Meeting, at which all five Board members were present. During this meeting, the Board 
members participated in discussions and votes on Town Meeting floor. On May 10, the Town 
held a Special Town Meeting, and all five Board members were again in attendance. Again, the 
Board members participated during the meeting. 
FACTS 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, "all meetings of a 
public body shall be open to the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Except in an emergency, "a 
public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L, c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a 
"meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." Id. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
Here, the complaints allege that the Board members deliberated during the sessions of 
Town Meeting held on April 9 and May 10, and the Board therefore should have posted notice of 
those meetings. This deliberation was not a violation of the Open Meeting Law because the Law 
does not reach any aspect of Town Meeting. See Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide. 
pg. 5 (stating that the Attorney General will not investigate alleged deliberation by public body 
members taking place during sessions of Town Meeting).2 Accordingly, we find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this case. 
While not raised in the complaint, it appears that the Board did not respond to Mr. 
Baker's first complaint. Within 14 business days of receiving a complaint, a public body must 
review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney 
General's Office a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). We take this opportunity to remind the Board of its 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Gerald Baker 
David Genereux, Town Manager 
2 The Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide is available here: 
http://wwvv.mass.gov/ago/ciocs/govemment/oml/oml-guide.pdf. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 