===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 96 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kevin Nichols 
Chair, Hancock Conservation Commission 
cc@town.hancock.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Nichols: 
 
This office received a complaint from Linda Burdick, Town Clerk for the Town of 
Hancock, on January 10, 2024, alleging that the Hancock Conservation Commission (the 
“Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on December 4, 2023, and the Commission responded by 
letter dated December 19, 2023.
1 The complaint alleges that the notice for the Commission’s 
November 20 meeting “was not received by the Town Clerk for posting in a timely manner.”2,3 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely post notice for its November 20 meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission’s response, and the request for 
further review. 
 
On November 20, Commission member Robin Keeney emailed notice for a meeting to be 
held that same day to Jan Lillie, Town Secretary, requesting that the notice be posted. On 
November 24 the Town Clerk responded to Member Keeney’s email stating “I was out of the 
office on [November 20] – was this meeting held?” On November 24, the Town Secretary also 
emailed the Town Clerk stating “FYI – I was out of the office on Monday – not sure if this 
 
1 All dates are in 2023 unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to the Complainant as the Town Clerk throughout.  
3 In its response the Commission asserts that the complaint relates to a November 18  meeting. We understand this to 
be a typo where the complaint and other information provided with the request for further review make clear that the 
complaint relates to a November 20 meeting.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
meeting was held but it would certainly not have been posted in time.” Finally, included with the 
request for further review is a copy of the notice for the November 20 meeting with a 
handwritten notation that the Town Clerk received the notice on November 20 at 2:50 p.m. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to any notice 
otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours 
prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). In 
its response, the Commission acknowledges “[l]ate submission of the commission’s meeting 
agenda for posting,” commits to timely submitting its meeting notices going forward, and asserts 
that no votes were taken during the meeting at issue. Based on the information before us, it is 
unclear whether notice was posted for the November 20 meeting at all, but regardless, even if 
notice was posted it could not have been timely posted. Therefore, we find that the Commission 
violated the Open Meeting Law. We remind the Commission that compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law is its responsibility and that it should ensure that it provides meeting notices to the 
Town Clerk with sufficient time for the notice to be posted in compliance with the Law.  
 
Next, we address the Town Clerk’s request for remedial action. In the complaint and 
request for further review the Town Clerk requests that the November 20 meeting and any votes 
taken during the meeting be nullified. The Commission asserts in its response that no votes were 
taken during the meeting in question. The Town Clerk does not dispute this assertion. Therefore, 
we do not order nullification where there is no action to nullify. However, we warn the 
Commission that a finding of future violations could result in the nullification of votes. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to timely post notice for its November 20 meeting. We order the Commission’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Commission that 
a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
an intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, based on the Commission’s response it 
appears that Commission members had not received or reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
educational materials or completed the required certification form acknowledging receipt of such 
materials.
4 Therefore, we additionally order each Commission member to review the educational 
materials and complete the certification form, all of which can be found on the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law website.
5 
 
 
4 Upon a public body member’s qualification for office, the Town Clerk must provide the member with, or instruct 
the member to obtain from the Attorney General’s website, the following educational materials: The Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law Guide, which includes the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, and the 
Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations, 940 CMR 29.00; and any determinations issued to that public 
body by the Attorney General within the last five years in which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h); 940 CMR 29.04(1). Within 2 weeks of qualification for office, each public body 
member must certify on the form prescribed by the Attorney General that they have received the educational 
materials, and such “certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the 
requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it. ” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h). The Town clerk 
or their designee “shall maintain the signed certification for each [public body member], indicating the date the 
person received the materials.” 940 CMR 29.04(3).  
5 https://www.mass.gov/info-details/complete-public-body-member-certification. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Robin Keeney, Acting Secretary, Hancock Conservation Commission  
(via email: rkeeneytn@gmail.com)  
Linda Burdick, Hancock Town Clerk (via email:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
