===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 27, 2024  
 
       OML 2024 – 226 
 
 
Robert Hobson 
Vice Chair, Fairhaven Board of Public Works 
bpw@Fairhaven-MA.gov  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Vice Chair Hobson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Tobie Simmons on August 18, 2024, alleging that 
the Fairhaven Board of Public Works (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 20, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 2.  The complaint alleges that the Board 
created inaccurate minutes of its April 8 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, as well as additional 
correspondence from the complainant.  In addition, we reviewed the minutes and a video 
recording of the Board’s April 8 meeting.
2   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
3  By substantial compliance, 
we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s April 8 meeting is available at https://vimeo.com/showcase/11020729.  
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
what occurred.  See OML 2019-163; OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary 
of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to 
include every remark or opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s April 8 meeting are inaccurate with 
regard to an exchange that took place between the Board’s chair and the complainant during the 
public comment portion of the meeting.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the minutes 
“include parts selectively edited to show my innocent family and our urgent concerns in the 
worst possible way, while EXCLUDING essential stated content, in effect protecting the Board’s 
public image while damaging mine.”  The complaint identifies proposed revisions to the minutes 
that the complainant believes would render the minutes more accurate. 
 
After reviewing a video of the exchange, which lasted approximately five minutes, and 
comparing it to the meeting minutes, which devote nearly two full pages to the contentious 
exchange, we find that the minutes comply with the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy requirement.  
We reiterate that meeting minutes need not be a transcript of the remarks.  We have not required 
the level of detail and precision that the complainant seeks. See, eg., OML 2023-143 (finding 
minutes sufficiently detailed and accurate even though, according to complainant, wording in 
minutes painted a skewed picture of a contentious exchange); OML 2019-136 (finding that 
minutes substantially complied with the Law’s accuracy requirement when member of the public 
spoke during a public comment period and the minutes captured some of the complainant’s 
comments but, according to the complainant, failed to capture at least ten points the complainant 
included in her remarks); OML 2016-40.  Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
       Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
cc:   Tobie Simmons (via email: ) 
Fairhaven Town Clerk (via email: ehoran@fairhaven-ma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
