===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 187 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael A. D’Ortenzio Jr., Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mark Brooks on June 9, 2025, alleging that the 
Worthington Selectboard (the “Board”) and the Highway Superintendent Screening Committee 
(the “Committee”) (collectively, “the Public Bodies”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Public Bodies on May 5, 2025, and, 
after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded on their behalf on June 3, 2025.  
The complaint alleges that (1) minutes of the Committee’s meetings of November 20, 2024, and 
November 21, 2024, were not sufficiently detailed; and (2) the Public Bodies violated the Law 
when a single candidate was considered by the Board for the position of Highway 
Superintendent. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Public Bodies did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Public Bodies’ response, and the request for further review, together with 
documents appended thereto.  I also communicated with you via email. 
 
  
 
1 On the complaint form, Mr. Brooks entered “Town of Worthington, Hampshire County” in the field “Public Body 
that is the subject of this complaint.”  Neither a municipality nor a county is a public body for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, §18.  Because the complaint alleges violations by the “the Worthington Personnel 
Screening Committee, the Selectmen for Highway Superintendent” and because minutes of the Board and 
Committee are referenced in, and attached to, the complaint, we read the complaint to be directed to the Board and 
the Committee. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee was formed to recommend to the Board 
candidates for the position of Highway Superintendent.  The Committee first met on November 
18, 2024, in open session.  According to minutes of that meeting, the Committee was to (1) 
screen applications for candidates who met the qualifications listed in the job posting, (2) create 
a list of questions to ask qualified candidates;
2 and (3) check references of qualified candidates.  
Four applications were received for the position.  The Committee removed two of the candidates 
from consideration because they did not have the minimum qualifications listed in the job 
posting.  The two remaining candidates, Devon Wolf and Matt Smith, had “excellent reference 
reports,” according to minutes of November 20.  Both were interviewed in open session on 
November 21.
3  The Committee deliberated following the interviews and “made the 
recommendation of Devon as first choice, Matt as second.” 
 
On November 26, 2024, Matt Smith called Board member Stephen Smith to withdraw as 
a candidate for Highway Superintendent.  Stephen Smith then informed Board Chair Amy Wang 
of the withdrawal.  At 3:06 p.m. that day, Board Chair Wang emailed the full Board to advise 
that Matt Smith “just withdrew his name from consideration.  He said there’s too much going on 
in Chesterfield right now.”  The Board met, as scheduled, at 4:00 p.m. on November 26.  At the 
meeting, the Board discussed Matt Smith’s withdrawal and then went forward with the interview 
of Devon Wolf in open session.  Following the interview, the Board voted to appoint Mr. Wolf to 
the position.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Minutes of the Committee’s meetings of November 20, 2024, and November 21, 
2024, were sufficiently detailed. 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the s ecrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create 
and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the 
date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64.4  By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
 
2 Although the minutes do not explicitly list interviewing the candidates as one of the Committee’s tasks, 
preparation of interview questions suggests that they intended to interview qualified candidates and they did do so.  
3 According to the original Committee minutes, Mr. Wolf and Mr. Smith were interviewed on November 21, 2024, 
and November 22, 2024, respectively.  However, according to the Public Bodies’ response to the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, both interviews were conducted on November 21, 2024.  The minutes have been a mended accordingly. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred.  See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106.   
 
The complainant alleges that minutes of two Committee meetings were not sufficiently 
detailed in the following ways: 
 
• The November 20 minutes did not “publish the uniform questions asked by the 
members to the two candidates, or the answers given”; 
• The November 21 minutes did not include details regarding 15 -20 positive 
recommendations and two negative letters about Devon Wolf;  
• The November 21 minutes did not reference a letter that the complainant sent to Chair 
Wang; and  
• The November 21 minutes did not reflect a vote to recommend Devon Wolf for the 
position.   
 
The complaint also alleges that minutes reflect the Committee’s bias in favor of Devon 
Wolf and that Matt Smith was wrongfully eliminated simply for not being able to meet the 
position start date. 
 
The complainant is correct that the Committee minutes do not include a verbatim 
recitation of the interview questions and answers.  We have consistently explained, however, that 
the Open Meeting Law does not require that minutes include a transcript of discussions held 
during a meeting or that minutes include every remark or opinion presented.  OML 2025-115; 
OML 2024-204; OML 2022-52.   The Law does require that minutes summarize the discussions 
that were held.  See OML 2020-57; OML 2020-18; OML 2019-167.  When candidates are 
interviewed by a public body, minutes must include a summary of those interviews.  See OML 
2025-80; OML 2024-25; OML 2011-34.  Minutes of the Committee’s November 21 meeting 
summarize the interviews and therefore conform to the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.   
 
The complainant also is correct that the minutes do not summarize public input received 
outside of meetings about Devon Wolf or a letter that the complainant submitted to the 
Committee chair.  The Committee, however, denies that these written communications were 
discussed during a meeting.  If a matter is not discussed during a meeting, it should not be 
included in the minutes.  See OML 2024-130; OML 2023-202.  The Law requires that meeting 
minutes accurately summarize what was actually discussed.  See OML 2023-76; OML 2022-
189; OML 2016-155 (explaining that minutes should reflect what was actually discussed at a 
meeting, not matters that were not discussed).  Because the Committee did not discuss the letters, 
it did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting details about the letters in the minutes.  To 
the extent that the complainant alleges that the Committee should have discussed these letters, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body discuss any particular matter nor that 
it discuss a matter in any particular depth.  See OML 2023-47; OML 2023-37; OML 2022-231. 
 
The complainant also alleges that the minutes fail to memorialize a vote to recommend 
Mr. Wolf to the Board.  The Committee, however, reached a consensus to recommend Mr. Wolf 
without holding a vote.  The minutes reflect the decision to recommend Mr. Wolf and the 
reasoning behind the consensus.  As such, they meet the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
minutes include “decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2014-4. 
 
Although not raised by the complainant, we note that the minutes, as or iginally drafted, 
did not include a list of documents used at the meetings.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (requiring that 
minutes include a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting).  The minutes have 
been amended, however, to include a list of documents used. 
 
II. We decline to review the allegation that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by recommending only one candidate for Highway Superintendent or that the 
Board violated the Law by voting to offer him the position.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee was required to recommend more than one 
candidate to the Board.  Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a complaint must be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  If the alleged 
violation could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed 
with the public body within 30 days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably 
have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  Complaints alleging violations that take place during 
an open session can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur.  See OML Declination 11-
27-2023 (Wellfleet Selectboard); OML 2022-128; OML 2012-52.  The discussion of Matt 
Smith’s withdrawal from consideration and the interview of the sole remaining candidate took 
place in open session at the Board’s November 26 meeting.  Any failure to conform with the 
Open Meeting Law was reasonably discoverable on November 26, 2024.  As the complaint was 
filed on May 5, 2025, it was not timely as to this allegation.
5  For the same reason, and because 
we do not review a public body’s actions for bias, we decline to review the allegation that the 
Committee did not recommend Matt Smith as a bona fide candidate but instead included him 
with the knowledge that his inability to meet the required start date was a “deal breaker.” 
 
Although we find no violation in response to the complainant’s allegations, we express 
our concern that Chair Wang sent an email to the full Board about Matt Smith’s withdrawal from 
consideration.  Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall 
be open to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  Chair Wang’s email to the 
full Board concerned public business within the Board’s jurisdiction.  Such communication 
should have occurred in a properly posted meeting, not via email.  
 
  
 
5 Although we decline to review this allegation, we note that in the rare instance when a pool of candidates is 
reduced to a single candidate because all but one candidate has withdrawn, we have not found a violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-30.  Moreover, that the Committee met in open session reduces or eliminates 
the concerns raised by the narrowing to one candidate if it occurs in executive session.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Worthington Selectboard and the Highway 
Superintendent Screening Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged by the 
complaint.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
deter
mination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the 
Committee or our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Worthington Selectboard (via email: selectboard@worthington-ma.us) 
 Worthington Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@worthington-ma.us) 
 Mark Brooks (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
