===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 18, 2024 
 
OML 2024 - 247 
 
 
Mallory Aronstein 
Town Administrator  
Swansea Town Hall 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
 
By email only: MAronstein@swanseama.gov 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Aronstein: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on July 18, 2024, alleging that the 
Swansea Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 2, 2024, and you responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 17, 2024.
1  The complaint alleges that the 
Board posted a notice with insufficient specificity for a meeting to be held on July 2 by failing to 
include the names of the candidates being considered for the appointment of Police Lieutenant. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.2  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held on June 25 and July 2, 
as well as video recordings of those two meetings.3 
 
  
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 We understand that the Town Administrator contacted our office seeking guidance on a similar issue in September 
2023.  The Board maintains that based on that guidance it understood that it was not necessary to include the names 
of the candidates.  We note that our office only provides general information about the requirements of the Open 
Meeting Law via our helpline and does not provide advisory opinions about particular circumstances outside of the 
formal complaint process. 
3 Video recordings of the June 25 and July 2, 2024, meetings are available at https://vimeo.com/channels/1046679. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 25 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice 
listed five topics, one of which was “Interviews for Police Lieutenant.”  Under this heading, the 
notice listed the names of the two candidates, Sergeants Joey Faria and John Souza, whom the 
Board planned to interview. 
 
The June 25 meeting was held as planned and the Board interviewed two candidates for 
the position of Police Lieutenant.  First, the Board heard from and asked questions of Sergeant 
Joey Faria for approximately 25 minutes.  Then, the Board heard from and asked questions of 
Sergeant John Souza for approximately 25 minutes.  After the conclusion of the interviews, the 
Board agreed that additional time was needed to consider each candidate and announced that a 
meeting would be scheduled for July 2 at 4:30 P.M. to deliberate and vote on appointing a 
Lieutenant. 
 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 2 at 4:30 P.M.  The notice listed 
one topic – Vote to Appoint Police Lieutenant.   
 
The July 2 meeting was held as planned.  The Town Administrator gave a brief overview 
of the interview process and that the Board was now considering the two candidates, Sergeants 
Joey Faria and John Souza, that it had interviewed in open session the previous week.  Each 
Board member offered his thoughts on his preferred candidate with each member recommending 
that Sergeant Faria be appointed to Lieutenant.  The Board then heard from the Police Chief who 
agreed that Sergeant Faria should be appointed to Lieutenant.  Board member Steven Kitchen 
then made a motion, which was seconded by Board member Michael Beaudette, to “appoint 
Sergeant Joey Faria to the position of Lieutenant pending successful completion of contract 
negotiations.”  The Board unanimously voted to appoint Sergeant Faria to the position of 
Lieutenant. 
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notic
e of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics 
shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2019-70; OML 2015-35; OML 2013-39.
4 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the July 2 meeting was insufficient where it did 
not include “the names of the candidates to be appointed” as Police Lieutenant.  We agree.  We 
have consistently stated that notices must include specific details about appointments to be made 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
and the names of anticipated applicants.  See OML 2022-217; OML 2017-177; OML 2017-148; 
OML 2016-167; OML 2015-196.  This information gives members of the public necessary 
information about the positions or applicants the Board intends to consider.  
 
Here, the
 Board knew the names of the two candidates it was considering for Police 
Lieutenant 48 hours in advance of the July 2 meeting because the Board had interviewed both 
candidates during the June 25 meeting.  We understand that the Board may not have known in 
advance of the meeting which of the two candidates would be appointed, as it intended to discuss 
the candidates during the meeting before voting which to appoint.  Therefore, the Board should 
have identified on the meeting notice the two candidates who would be considered for 
appointment to Police Lieutenant, and the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting an 
insufficiently specific meeting notice.  Although we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law, we find no indication that the Board intended to deceive or withhold information 
from the public.  Rather, the Board sincerely believed that including two names when there was 
only appointment to be made could have confused the public, a concern that could have been 
addressed by specifying on the meeting notice that only one candidate would be appointed.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution 
that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Carrie Benedon 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:   
Swansea Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Robert Medeiros – By email only: 
rmedeiros@swanseama.gov 
Swansea Town Clerk Diane Pelland – By email only: dpelland@swanseama.gov  
  
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 