===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
July 3, 2019 
OML 2019-79
Thomas Mullen, Esq.
40 Salem Street 
Building 2, Suite 12 
Lynnfield, MA 01940
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Mullen:
This office received a complaint from Daniel Lieber on May 16, 2018, alleging that 
the Wakefield School Committee (the “School Committee”) and the Superintendent 
Screening Committee (the “Screening Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the School Committee on or about 
April 13, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the School Committee, in a letter 
dated May 4. In his complaint, Mr. Lieber alleges that the Committees failed to timely 
provide certain meeting minutes and other documents. Additionally, Mr. Lieber alleges that 
the Screening Committee held meetings for which notice was not posted and failed to 
complete Open Meeting Law certification forms.2
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this complaint.
Following our review, we find that the Screening Committee and the School Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to a request for minutes. 
Additionally, we find that the Screening Committee violated the law by failing to complete 
Open Meeting Law certification forms. We find no violation, however, with respect to the 
allegation that the Screening Committee met outside of a noticed meeting. We also decline to 
find any intentional violations.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Screening Committee meetings
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018, unless otherwise indicated.
2 The request for further review also alleged that the open meeting minutes, when produced, were insufficiently 
detailed. However, we decline to review this allegation because it was not included within the original complaint 
to the public body. See OML 2018-140.

===PAGE 2===
held on March 22 and March 24, as well as the notices and minutes of the School Committee 
meetings held on February 6 and March 27. We also communicated with you by email on 
October 23, 2018, March 25, 2019, May 23, 2019, and June 20, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. In late 2017, the Superintendent of Schools announced 
her retirement. On February 6, the School Committee created the Screening Committee to 
review applications and recommend final applicants to the School Committee for its 
consideration. The Screening Committee consisted of 17 individuals representing various 
community, school and town stakeholders. None of the members of the Screening Committee 
signed Open Meeting Law certification forms upon assuming their appointment or thereafter.
On February 15, the School Committee and the Screening Committee hosted a 
“Community Forum on the Search for the Next Superintendent of Schools.” The forum was 
structured as an opportunity for the approximately 50 members of the public who attended to 
give their feedback and opinions about the district’s needs for the next superintendent. There 
was no table at which members of the Committees could sit as a panel. Screening Committee 
Chair Tom Markham served as a single moderator to invite public feedback and answer 
questions about the search process which had already been prescribed by the School 
Committee.
After reviewing all the applications for the Superintendent position, Chair Markham 
removed approximately four applications from consideration because they failed to meet the 
minimum criteria for the position as expressly noted in the job posting. Around March 16, 
Screening Committee members picked up and signed for applicant/candidate application 
packets for the 24 remaining applicants which they reviewed individually. After many 
scheduling emails were exchanged in order to coordinate the 17-member body, the Screening 
Committee planned to meet on March 21, March 22 and March 24. However, the March 21 
meeting was cancelled due to a snowstorm and therefore, in order to complete its work by the 
March 27 deadline, the Search Committee compressed its interview and discussion process 
into just two meetings.
The Screening Committee first met to review the applications in executive session on 
March 22 and decided to interview 6 of the 24 applicants. The Screening Committee 
conducted those interviews in executive session on March 24. Aside from these meetings, we 
credit the Screening Committee’s assertion that it did not hold any other meetings for which 
notice was not posted.
During a March 27 School Committee meeting, Screening Committee Chair Markum 
informed the School Committee that the Screening Committee recommended three final 
candidates. Chair Markum commended the members of the Screening Committee for their 
efforts to complete the screening process in a compressed timeframe. He also noted the many 
meetings held by the School Committee to define the search process before the Search
2

===PAGE 3===
Committee was appointed. The School Committee subsequently conducted the interviews of 
the three final candidates in open session.
On March 27, the Complainant sent an email to the chairs of the School Committee 
and the Screening Committee requesting “a copy of the minutes, including the documents 
used at the meetings, from all meetings of the [Screening Committee] and other 
committees/public bodies tasked with the superintendent recruiting process in 2018.”3 On 
April 2, then-School Committee Chair Rob Tiro acknowledged receipt of the request and 
informed the Complainant that the response would be handled by Screening Chair Thomas 
Markham. On April 2 and April 9, Mr. Markham asked the Complainant for additional time 
to comply with his request, which the Complainant declined. This complaint was filed with 
the Committees on April 13. On April 15, Mr. Markham sent the requested documents, 
including the notices and open session minutes, but not the executive session minutes, of the 
Screening Committee’s March 22 and March 24 meetings.
DISCUSSION
I. The Screening Committee and the School Committee Failed to Respond to a Request
for Meeting Minutes Within 10 Days of a Request.
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some limited exceptions for executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a),
21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session only for one or more of the ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). A public body may 
enter executive session provided that it has first convened in open session, that a majority of 
the members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each 
member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b); OML 
2014- 94.4
One permissible basis for holding an executive session is “[t]o consider or interview 
applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair 
declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; 
provided, however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a 
preliminary screening committee, to consider and interview applicants who have passed a 
prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8) (“Purpose 8”). “Preliminary Screening” 
is defined as “the initial stage of screening applications conducted by a committee or 
subcommittee of a public body solely for the purposes of providing to the public body a list of 
those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18.
3 To the extent that the request sought documents other than the meeting minutes, the Committees’ response is 
governed by the Public Records Law, rather than the Open Meeting Law. Accordingly, we do not address that 
issue here.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created 
and approved in a timely manner. The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether 
approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).
At the time the Complainant had filed this complaint with the School Committee on 
April 13, neither the Screening Committee nor the School Committee had provided any 
meeting minutes or documents used during the meetings, although the Screening Committee 
Chair responded within six days of the request, on April 2, acknowledging the request and 
seeking an extension of time to respond. Because the complainant did not agree to an 
extension, however, both Committees had 10 calendar days, or until April 6, to comply with 
the request. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c) & (g). The Committees provided the records nine days 
late, on April 15. As the Committees concede, they failed to timely respond to the 
Complainant’s request in violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, because the 
requested records have since been provided, we order no further remedial action.
To the extent that the request also sought executive session minutes (and the 
documents, including resumes, used during those sessions), we remind the Committees that, 
upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purpose(s) of the 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the body has not performed a review to 
determine whether release of the executive session minutes would defeat the lawful 
purpose(s) of the executive session, it must do so and then release any non-exempt minutes, or 
portions thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or in 30 days, whichever first occurs. 
See id.; OML 2013-180.
II. The Screening Committee Failed to Sign Open Meeting Law Certification Forms.
The complainant alleges that the Screening Committee members failed to complete 
Open Meeting Law certification forms upon their appointment. “Within 2 weeks of 
qualification for the office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify.. .the receipt of a 
copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a copy of 
the educational material prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting law and 
its application pursuant to section 19.” See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h); see also 940 CMR 29.04(4) 
(“[a]n individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a certification for each public 
body on which he or she serves. A public body member does not need to sign a separate 
certification when joining a subcommittee of the public body.”).
Here, the Screening Committee consisted of one School Committee member, but 
consisted mostly of other community members and public officials. As such, it is not simply 
a subcommittee consisting solely of members of the parent body for which certification forms 
would be duplicative and unnecessary. See 940 CMR 29.04(4). The Screening Committee 
concedes that its members did not sign the certification forms, and pledges to require its
4

===PAGE 5===
members to comply with this requirement in the future. Accordingly, we find that the 
Screening Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in this regard.
III. The Screening Committee Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Noticed Meeting.
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a “meeting” as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id.
The complainant alleges that the Screening Committee may have held meetings for 
which notice was not posted. Specifically, the complainant points to a Community Forum 
hosted by the Screening Committee on February 15. We find that the Community Forum was 
not a meeting subject to the Open Meeting Law, because members of the public merely 
provided input and feedback while the Chair of the Screening Committee served as 
moderator. We credit the Chair’s statement that he merely received input and answered 
public questions about the search process which had already been prescribed by the School 
Committee. No other member of the Screening Committee addressed the Community Forum. 
Since the Forum did not include any deliberation by members of the Screening Committee, it 
was not a “meeting” for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law and therefore did not need to 
be posted in accordance with the provisions of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-118.
IV. We Decline to Find the Violations to be Intentional.
We must determine whether the violations were, as the complainant urges, intentional. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a 
member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id.
The Complainant points to OML 2016-26 and OML 2013-163 as evidence of the 
Committee’s intent to violate the law. However, the only violation those determinations have 
in common with the present ones is a failure to timely respond to a request for minutes. Here, 
because Mr. Markham and Mr. Tiro promptly acknowledged receipt of the Complainant’s 
request and asked for a short extension of time in good faith, which the Complainant refused, 
we decline to find that the violations were intentional.
5

===PAGE 6===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the School Committee and the Screening 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to a request for 
minutes and failing to file certifications of receipt of Open Meeting Law materials. Although 
the Screening Committee no long meets, we note that the School Committee has previously 
been found in violation of the Open Meeting Law for different, but related, issues involving a 
prior Superintendent search.
Accordingly, we order the School Committee’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence 
of an intentional violation of the law. We also order all members of the School Committee to 
file with the Wakefield Town Clerk, within 30 days following receipt of this determination. 
the certification of receipt of Open Meeting Law materials, certifying that they have reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations, the Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law Guide, and all determinations from the past five years in which 
we found that the School Committee or any of its subcommittees violated the Open Meeting 
Law. All of these materials can be found on the Division’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committees. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Daniel Lieber
Wakefield School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
6
