===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
vvww.mass.gov/ago 
July 28, 2015 
OML 2015-106 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
Kopelman & Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Claire Stidsen dated March 10,1 alleging that the 
Sterling Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 6, and you responded to 
the complaint by letter dated February 27.2 The complaint alleges that, relative to the Board 
meeting held on January 7, the Board failed to list an executive session topic with sufficient 
specificity in its meeting notice;3 failed to comply with certain procedures for convening an 
executive session; and failed to create accurate meeting minutes. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include sufficient and accurate detail both in its meeting notice and in its open session minutes. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint; your response; and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the recording, 
notice, open and executive session minutes from the Board meeting held on January 7. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 In its response, the Board contends that this allegation is untimely because it was filed more than 30 days after the 
notice was posted on January 5. We disagree. When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly 
insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone. See OML 2015-21; OML 2014-155. 
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to 
make the public aware of the discussion topics. Id. It follows, therefore, that such allegations are not reasonably 
discoverable until the meeting at issue occurs. Accordingly, we find that this allegation was timely filed with the 
Board. 
r3 SEIJJ 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 7, the Board convened in executive 
session to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, an 
individual, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The executive session topic listed 
on the notice was described as, "Executive Session (MGL C30A Sec. 21 (a) Ex. Ass." Prior to 
the executive session, the Board approved a vote by roll call to enter into executive session to 
discuss the "reputation, character, physical condition, mental health, etc., discipline, 
predisciplinary hearing, complaints or charges brought against a public officer, employee staff 
member or individual." Although the Board did not intend to identify the individual to be 
discussed in its meeting notice, the notice inadvertently included the job title of that individual, 
listed as "Ex. Ass." However, the Board decided not to repeat its mistake by identifying the 
individual in the verbal announcement prior to convening in executive session at the meeting. 
The original minutes of the Board's January 7 meeting stated that the Board approved a 
motion by roll call to, "enter into Executive session Pursuant to Massachusetts General Law 
Chapter 30A Section 21In response to this complaint, the Board amended the minutes on 
February 25 to add the language of Purpose 1 to this description, since the Chair did, in fact, 
recite that language during the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting." G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice 
with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2011-44.4 Executive session topics must be 
described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement during open session, in as much 
detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. 
See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper."); G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
I. The Executive Session Topic Listed on the January 7 Meeting Notice Lacked 
Sufficient Detail. 
A public body may enter executive session under Purpose 1 to "discuss the... discipline or 
dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member 
or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The notice for the Board's meeting on January 7 listed 
as a topic for discussion, "Executive Session (MGL C30A Sec. 21 (a) Ex. Ass." We find that 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
this executive session topic was insufficiently detailed because it did not state under which 
specific purpose the Board intended to convene. At a minimum, the notice should have 
identified the specific statutory executive session purpose (i.e. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1)), rather 
than the general section of the law authorizing executive sessions. OML 2014-97. 
In a prior determination, OML 2013-195, we similarly found that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to list an executive session topic with sufficient specificity in its 
meeting notice. See OML 2013-195, at 9. The Board's makeup has changed since that 
determination was issued, however, and only one of the Board's three members (which is less 
than a quorum) was involved in both violations of the Open Meeting Law. We therefore do not 
find that this most recent violation of the Open Meeting Law is an intentional violation, but we 
caution the Board that future similar conduct may be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
Law. 
II. The Board Properly Convened in Executive Session on January 7. 
We find that the Board properly followed the procedural requirements for convening in 
executive session during its January 7 meeting, including the requirement that a roll call vote 
approve the closed door session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). The chair's verbal statement prior to 
convening in executive session- a recitation of the statutory language- provided as much detail 
about the topic as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. Id. Although the Board did identify in its notice the job title of the individual to be 
discussed, it did so inadvertently, and therefore did not need to repeat its mistake by disclosing 
the identity of the individual in the announcement during the meeting. See OML 2013-141; 
OML 2013-20 (the description of a topic under Purpose 1 does not have to identify the individual 
to be discussed if the public body believes that such disclosure would defeat the purpose for 
confidentiality, namely to protect the privacy of that individual). 
III. The Minutes From the Board's January 7 Meeting Were Inaccurate, however the 
Board Took Appropriate Remedial Action in Response to this Complaint by 
Revising those Minutes. 
As the Board has conceded, the original minutes of its January 7 meeting did not 
accurately reflect the language of the vote taken by the Board to enter into executive session. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body, "create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Although the original minutes did not comply 
with these requirements, following its receipt of this Open Meeting Law complaint the Board 
revised the minutes to reflect the language of the actual vote taken by the Board. We find this 
was appropriate remedial action. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in the notice for its January 7 meeting and by failing to include 
accurate detail in the open session minutes of that same meeting. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Claire Stidsen 
Sterling Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 