===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 4, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 171 
 
 
Erin Gibbons, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
By email only: Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org  
        
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Gibbons: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris and Kimberly Reichelt on January 
18, 2023, alleging that the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
December 6, 2022; and former Committee Chair Chris Ryan
1 responded, on behalf of the 
Committee, by letter dated January 5, 2023, following an extension of time granted by our office.  
The complaint alleges that a Committee member passed a note to the Committee’s attorney, thus 
engaging in private deliberation in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
in the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meeting 
held on November 10, 2022, as well as a transcript and video recording of that meeting.
2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.    
 
1 Mr. Ryan is no longer a member of the Committee. 
2 A video recording of the meeting held on November 10, 2022, is available at 
https://wayland.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=8eebf0ae-0f12-4cf8-8 c90-
4ed289356ca3&nav=programs%2FSchool%20Committee.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
On October 26, 2022, the Committee convened in executive session to discuss complaints 
received against the Superintendent with respect to his behavior during a meeting with school 
administrators on October 13, 2022.  During the executive session, the Committee voted to 
conduct an independent investigation of the incident that occurred on October 13, 2022, and 
authorized two Committee members to select an investigator.   
 
On November 10, 2022, the Committee held an open session meeting, during which it 
continued its discussion of the complaints received against the Superintendent.  At the beginning 
of the meeting, the Committee received comments from the public for about 40 minutes and then 
heard from the Superintendent, as well as the Superintendent’s legal counsel.  Next, Committee 
members expressed their thoughts on whether to place the Superintendent on leave during the 
investigation.  During this portion of the meeting, Committee member Ellen Grieco can be seen 
on video writing a note, which she hands directly to town legal counsel.  Approximately ten 
minutes later, legal counsel returned the note to Ms. Grieco.  Thereafter, Ms. Grieco commented 
on the incident that occurred on October 13, 2022, and also stated that Committee members had 
received additional complaints that the Superintendent did not complete several employee 
performance evaluations.  Both the Superintendent and a member of the public suggested that the 
issue about the performance evaluations were new allegations not on the agenda.  Ms. Grieco 
responded saying “I asked the lawyer, and his view is that this is covered by our agenda today. . . 
.  I’m happy to have another meeting.  I’m happy to reschedule the meeting.  But to me, that 
piece of this is the most concerning piece and so I would like that to be part of the discussion.” 
 
The Committee then held a second public comment period where it heard from members 
of the public for about 30 minutes.  Ultimately, the Committee voted by majority vote to “engage 
in the investigation of the complaints” made against the Superintendent and to not place the 
Superintendent on leave while the investigation was ongoing. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that a Committee member violated the Open Meeting Law by 
secretly passing a note to legal counsel during the November 10, 2022, meeting.  Specifically, 
the complaint alleges that Ms. Grieco’s private communication with legal counsel is deliberation  
===PAGE 3===
"with all members through the conduit/agency of the Committee's counsel." We disagree. The
Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open and accessible to the public.
See G.L. c. 30A, $§ 18, 20(a); OML 2012-49. Access must include the opportunity to be
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the
public body. See OML 2017-16; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48. Here, a note
from Ms. Grieco to legal counsel, who is not a member of the Committee, is not deliberation, as
defined by the Open Meeting Law, because a quorum of the Committee did not participate in the
communication. See 2019-52 (explaining that a whispered conversation between legal counsel,
who is not a member of the public body, and a single public body member does not constitute
deliberation); OML 2017-199; OML 2017-37; G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Moreover, although not a
factor in our determination, we note that shortly after receiving the note from legal counsel Ms.
Grieco publicly explained what she had asked counsel and his response to her question.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address
any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or with our office. Please feel
free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Keny hume Kilngue
KenyAnne Kilcoyne
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC.
George H. Harris, Esq. - By email only:
Kimberly Reichelt - By email only,
Wayland School Committee - By email only: school_committee@waylandps.org
Wayland Town Clerk - By email only: aludwig@wayland.ma.us
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.