===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
December 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 230 
 
 
Mallory Aronstein 
Town Administrator  
Swansea Town Hall 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777 
 
By email only: MAronstein@swanseama.gov 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Aronstein: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on August 29, 2022, alleging that 
the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 27, and you responded to the 
complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 10.  The complaint alleges that, for a 
meeting held on July 26, i) the Board met in a location that was not accessible to all individuals; 
ii) the Board failed to provide adequate alternative means of public access and iii) a topic listed 
on the notice was insufficiently specific.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  We decline to review whether the July 26 meeting was held in an accessible 
location as that allegation is the sole subject of several other Open Meeting Law complaints filed 
by the complainant in the Town of Swansea.
2  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 The complainant filed two Open Meeting Law complaints with the Swansea Board of Health, one Open Meeting 
Law complaint with the Board of Selectmen, one Open Meeting Law complaint with the Conservation Commission, 
and one Open Meeting Law complaint with the Planning Board alleging that the public bodies violated the Open 
Meeting Law by meeting at the Swansea Police Station which the complainant alleges is not accessible to 
individuals with a disability.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board 
meetings held on July 26 and August 9, as well as video recordings of those meetings.3   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  During the week of July 18, Swansea Cable Access TV 
changed its name to Swansea Community Network and also changed the website address of its 
Facebook page from www.facebook.com/swanseacableaccess to 
www.facebook.com/swanseacommunitynetwork, and website address from 
www.swanseacabletv.com to https://www.swanseacn.com/.   
 
On July 22 at 12:22 P.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 26.  
The notice listed 13 topics, including “Request for Disposal of Town Property – Swansea Police 
Department.”  The notice listed the location of the meeting as the Swansea Police Station at 1700 
G.A.R. Highway.  In addition, the notice stated that the meeting would “be broadcast live” on 
Swansea Comcast Channel 15, the Swansea Cable Access’s Facebook page at 
www.facebook.com/swanseacableaccess, and www.swanseacabletv.com.  
 
The July 26 meeting was held as planned and two of three Board members were present 
in the physical meeting location while the third member was absent from the meeting.  At the 
beginning of the meeting, Chair Steven Kitchen
 announced that the meeting was being broadcast 
live on Swansea Comcast Channel 15 and the Swansea Cable Access TV’s website and 
Facebook page.   
 
During the meeting, the Board appointed an individual as Parks Laborer and heard from 
residents of Bettencourt Lane who raised concerns regarding loud parties and property damage.  
The Board then heard from the Chief of Police who requested permission to dispose of particular 
property “with no value” that had been located on the third floor of the police station.  Sometime 
prior to the meeting, the Police Chief provided the Board with a list of the specific items, of 
which there were 19, for disposal.  However, neither the Police Chief nor Board mentioned or 
discussed each of the 19 items; rather only a few of the items were highlighted during the 
meeting, including broken chairs, old computer printers and ink, and a camera.  The Board voted 
to approve the request to dispose of town property as submitted by the Police Chief. 
 
The Board was not aware that the website address and Facebook page for Swansea Cable 
Access TV listed on the notice for the July 26 meeting were incorrect and not accessible until the 
complainant filed his Open Meeting Law complaint on July 27.  Further, in response to the 
complaint, during the Board meeting held on August 9, Town Administrator Mallory Aronstein 
specifically identified the 19 items to be disposed from the list that had been provided to the 
Board by the Police Chief.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the  
 
3 A video recording of the Board meetings held on July 26 and August 9 is available at: 
https://vimeo.com/channels/1046679/page:2.    
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of  
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement  
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except  
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to 
see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2018-75; OML 2016-54.4 
 
I. We find that the Board Provided Adequate Alternative Means of Public 
Access to the Meeting Held on July 26. 
 
On February 15, 2022, Governor Charles Baker signed into law An Act Relative to 
Extending Certain COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 22 of 
the Acts of 2022 (“Chapter 22”).  Section 20 of Chapter 22 extended the remote meeting 
provisions established in Governor Baker's March 12, 2020, Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20 (“Executive Order”).
5  Relevant here, 
the Executive Order temporarily suspended the requirements under the Open Meeting Law and 
the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations that a quorum of a public body, including 
the chair, be physically present at the meeting location and allows all members of a public body 
to participate in a meeting remotely, provided that the public body provide “adequate, alternative 
means” of public access, such as through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video 
conferencing or any other technology that enables the public to clearly follow the proceedings of 
the public body while those activities are occurring.  See Executive Order at § 1; Chapter 20, § 
20(b); OML 2021-135.  The Executive Order allows public bodies to provide the public with 
“adequate, alternative” access to meetings instead of providing in-person access but does not 
require public bodies to provide “adequate, alternative” access if in-person access is provided. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to provide adequate alternative means of 
public access to the meeting held on July 26 because the website address and Facebook page for 
Swansea Cable Access TV listed on the notice no longer existed at the time of the Board 
meeting.  When all public body members participate in a meeting remotely or when a public 
body meets in person without providing the public physical access to the meeting location, the 
public body must then provide the public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which 
requires access to the proceedings in real time.  See OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Executive 
Order at Section (1).  However, a public body may hold in-person meetings, as long as access to 
the meeting includes the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54.  Here, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 26 at the Swansea 
Police Station and a quorum of the Board was present in this physical location on July 26.  We 
have not been presented with any evidence that a member of the public sought to physically 
attend the July 26 meeting and was denied access or that the Board limited the number of people 
who could be present in the meeting room.  Compare 2021-43 (public body violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it held a meeting in a location with a strict 12-person limit and turned away 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
5 These provisions have since been extended until March 31, 2023.  See Chapter 107 of the Acts of 2022. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
members of the public once the room was at capacity).  Moreover, we have not been presented 
with any evidence that the meeting was not also broadcast on local television as indicated on the 
notice.  Therefore, because the Board is not required to provide more than one means of 
adequate, alternative access, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law where 
it provided in-person access and access via local television, without also providing access via the 
internet or Facebook.  See OML 2021-76. 
 
II. We find the July 26 Meeting Notice to be Sufficiently Detailed.  
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, and 
include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics 
shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.  When reviewing a meeting notice 
for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public 
aware of the discussion topics. 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice of the July 26 meeting was insufficiently detailed 
with respect to the topic listed as “Request for Disposal of Town Property – Swansea Police 
Department” as it did not list the specific property to be disposed.  During the meeting, the Board 
discussed a request from the Chief of Police to dispose of some outdated and broken property 
located in the police station, which he represented had no value.  A notice need not include every 
detail about an anticipated discussion; rather, the law requires that a notice list topics with 
“sufficient specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the meeting and observe 
the discussion regarding that topic.  See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7.  
We find that this specific topic listed on the notice was sufficient to inform the public of the 
discussion held and that, therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 
2020-125; OML 2014-58. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Swansea Board of Selectmen c/o Chair Steven Kitchen – By email only: 
skitchin@town.swansea.ma.us 
Swansea Town Clerk – By email only: dpelland@town.swansea.ma.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
