===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2014 
OML 2014-146 
Jeffrey Bernstein, Esq. 
BCK Law P.C. 
One Gateway Center, Suite 809 
Newton, MA 02458 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bernstein: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Eric Bibler, dated August 20, alleging that the 
Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative (CVEC) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with CVEC on July 31, and CVEC responded to the 
original complaint by letter dated August 18. In his complaint, Mr. Bibler alleges that the 
minutes of CVEC's July 1 meeting failed to: (i) list all documents used during that meeting; and 
(ii) provide sufficient detail regarding deliberations that took place during that meeting. 
Following our review, we find that CVEC did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; CVEC's response; and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the open session and executive 
session minutes for the July 1 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. CVEC was formed out of a strategic planning process 
commissioned and undertaken by the Cape Light Compact ("CLC"). See G.L. c. 164, §136. 
CVEC has 19 members consisting of 16 towns, Barnstable and Dukes County, and the CLC. 
CVEC's long-term goal is to develop electric generation projects or contracts to stabilize electric 
rates for all CLC customers. The CVEC Board of Directors is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2013-73; OML 2012-81. 
CVEC held a meeting on July 1, during which it discussed, amongst other items, CVEC's 
Administrative Services Agreement ("the ASA"). On July 25, CVEC posted draft open session 
meeting minutes from this July 1 meeting to its website. Mr. Bibler filed his complaint on July 
31. On August 7, CVEC held a meeting, in part to review Mr. Bibler's complaint and in part to 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
finalize the minutes from the July 1 meeting. At that meeting, CVEC reviewed and approved the 
finalized minutes for the July 1 meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Administrative Services Agreement was not "used" during the July 1 
Meeting, thus CVEC did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to List it 
in the Meeting Minutes. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes contain "a list of documents and 
other exhibits used at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Documents and other exhibits that are 
"used by the body at an open or executive session shall, along with the minutes, be part of the 
official record of the session." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d). A document is "used" at a meeting when it 
is, at a minimum, physically present, verbally identified, and its contents are discussed by 
members of the public body during an open session. See OML 2012-42; OML 2011-18. 
The complaint alleges that the ASA should have been included in the list of documents 
and exhibits used during CVEC's July 1 meeting. However, a copy of the ASA was not present 
at the July 1 meeting. As CVEC President John Checklick wrote in his response, "the document 
was not provided nor utilized during the discussion." The ASA was verbally identified only to 
the extent that President Checklick stated his desire to see the document ratified without changes 
at a future Board of Directors meeting. The contents of the ASA were never discussed. We 
therefore conclude that the ASA was not "used" during the meeting for the purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law, thus CVEC did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to list the ASA in its 
minutes. 
II. The Draft Minutes of CVEC's July 1 Meeting did not Violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Minutes should contain sufficient detail for a 
reasonable member of the public who did not attend the meeting to read them and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106; OML 2011-5 5. 
The complaint alleges that certain portions of CVEC's draft minutes from the July 1 
meeting lacked sufficient detail. The complaint points to three specific deficiencies: (i) under 
"Special Terms and Conditions of Power Sales Agreements," the minutes stated only "The 
Committee reviewed each request"; (ii) under "Open Session Vote on Entry into Executive 
Session," the minutes stated "President Checklick declared the reasons for moving into the 
Executive Session as stated on the Agenda"; and (iii) under "CVEC 7- O&M," the minutes stated 
only, "There was discussion about transferring the systems to the host towns." 
During its August 1 meeting, CVEC reviewed the draft minutes for the July 1 meeting 
and approved final minutes, which include more robust descriptions of the discussions that took 
place. We find that the final, approved minutes are sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. BOA, § 22(a). It is true that the original draft minutes did not 
2 
===PAGE 3===
contain sufficient detail to give members of the public a clear understanding of what occurred. 
However, because the minutes were merely in draft form, and CVEC still had the opportunity to 
(and actually did) revise them, we find that there was no Open Meeting Law violation. See 
For the reasons stated above, we find that CVEC did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
CVEC. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Mr. Eric Bibler 
Cape & Vineyard Electric Cooperative 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
fded in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
OML 2012-111. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 