===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 29, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 172  
 
    
David J. Doneski, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Doneski: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joanne Krause on January 25, 2021, alleging that 
the Northborough Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 20, and the 
Board responded by letter dated December 16.
 1   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board did not allow Ms. Krause and Amy Poretsky, who 
were applicants on an appeal being heard by the Board, to address the Board sufficiently during 
an October 27 meeting.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board’s usual practice when 
holding meetings by Zoom is to make applicants “panelists” in the Zoom platform so that they 
may actively participate in the meeting.  The complaint alleges that although Ms. Krause was 
made a panelist, she was muted after she made her presentation and was not permitted to speak 
again.  The complaint further alleges that Ms. Poretsky was not made a panelist, but rather was in 
the Zoom audience and had to virtually raise her hand to speak, was only called on and allowed 
to speak once, and then was not acknowledged for the duration of the meeting.  The Board does 
not dispute these allegations, but notes that both applicants were permitted to speak for a “good 
amount of time” and that the discussion and presentations by both sides of the appeal lasted 
“hours.” 
 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
After reviewing the complaint filed with the Board, the Board’s response, and the 
complaint filed with our office for review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation in a meeting.  See OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.
2  To the contrary, the Open 
Meeting Law provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without 
permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(g).  Therefore, the Law gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to 
permit public comment during a meeting, and if public comment will be permitted, to set 
restrictions on public comment.  See OML 2019-138; OML 2020-9; OML 2017-189; OML 
2014-23; OML 2012-78.  Nonetheless, we encourage public bodies to allow for as much public 
participation as time and circumstances permit. 
 
Because the Board was not required by the Open Meeting Law to permit members of the 
public, including applicants, to address the Board during its October 27 meeting, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We note that the Open Meeting Law does not 
govern the requirements for conducting a public hearing. Thus, we decline to review, and offer 
no opinion on, whether any actions taken by the Board could be a violation of any other law or 
regulation pertaining to the particular type of hearing that took place during the Board’s October 
27 meeting.  See OML 2014-31; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission). 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
cc: Joanne Krause – By email only:  
Amy Poretsky – By email only:  
John Coderre – By email only:  
 Kathy Joubert – By email only:  
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
 
 