===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 30, 2016 
OML 2016-164 
Lauren Goldberg, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Goldberg: 
This office received five related complaints from Michael Chalifoux alleging that the 
Ded ham Public Library Board of Trustees (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, Two complaints were filed with the Board on December 10, 2015, a third was 
filed with the Board on January 26, 2016, and the fourth was filed with the Board on February 
25, 2016. The Board responded to the first four complaints by letters dated March 16 and 28, 
2016. The first four complaints were filed with our office for further review on April 13, 2016. 
A fifth complaint was filed with the Board on April 27, 2016, and the Board responded by letter 
dated May 18, 2016.' This fifth complaint was then filed with our office on June 8, 2016. In his 
complaints, Mr. Chalifoux alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) creating 
a subcommittee that does not post notice of its meetings or maintain meeting minutes, (ii) 
deliberating outside of a noticed meeting, (iii) withholding executive session meeting minutes 
after the purpose for secrecy has expired, and (iv) failing to hold a public vote before terminating 
contract negotiations with an employee.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's responses, and the requests for 
further review filed with our office. We also reviewed letters from Dr. Mary Ann Tricarico, 
former Director of the Dedham Public Library, dated April 4 and July 7, 2016. We also 
reviewed a supplementary response e-mail from the Board's legal counsel dated September 13, 
1 We remind the Board that, unless an extension of time has been requested from our office, public bodies must 
respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within fourteen business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
2 One of the complaints also alleges that the Board acted outside its authority. The Division's review concerns only 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. BOA, §§ 18-25. Because this allegation, even if proven true, would 
not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, we decline to review it. See OML 2016-87, Fn. 2. Open 
Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
2016.3 We reviewed a supplementary statement from the complainant dated August 18, 2016. 
Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on August 11 and September 2, 
2016. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. Therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum. The complaints can be categorized into allegations concerning 
unnoticed deliberations by a subcommittee, and allegations concerning improper actions by the 
Board related to the departure of the former Library Director, Dr. Mary Ann Tricarico. Because 
the complaints conflate the activities of the Board's Public Relations Subcommittee with those of 
a Marketing Committee, it is necessary to untangle the two bodies. 
Committees and the December 4. 2015 Marketing Committee Meeting. 
The Marketing Committee. The complaints concern only the Marketing Committee. 
There is no evidence that the Board was involved in the creation of the Marketing Committee. It 
appears that the Marketing Committee began meeting in early 2014 and was composed of library 
staff, a staff member from the Dedham Savings Bank, and, on certain occasions, several Board 
members. This group did not take votes, did not have a quorum requirement, and was not 
empowered by the Board to undertake any particular activities. The Marketing Committee was 
primarily involved in creating a new logo for the library, which it recommended to the Board 
during a Board meeting. It does not appear that the Marketing Committee posted notice or kept 
minutes of its meetings. 
The Public Relations Subcommittee. The Public Relations Subcommittee is distinct from 
the Marketing Committee. During a Board meeting held on July 15, 2013, the Board chair and 
the Library Director discussed the formation of a Public Relations Subcommittee. As originally 
conceived, this group would work on community outreach and soliciting grants. The Board next 
discussed the Subcommittee during the Board's July 17, 2013 meeting when Board member 
Tracy Driscoll brought forward the idea to form the Subcommittee. The Board then created the 
Subcommittee, which was composed of two Board members, the Library Director, a member of 
the Dedham Library Innovation Team, a senior citizen, and an individual with a public relations 
background. While the formation of the Subcommittee occurred during a Board meeting, the 
Board never formally voted to create this group. 
The minutes of subsequent Board meetings state that members of this Subcommittee 
undertook activities such as writing a column for a local publication and lobbying for additional 
library resources. The Subcommittee does not appear to be mentioned again in minutes of Board 
meetings after the end of 2013. It does not appear that the Subcommittee posted notice or kept 
minutes of its meetings. 
The December 4. 2015 Marketing Committee Meeting. The Marketing Committee held a 
meeting at the Main Dedham Library on December 4, 2015. The Committee did not post notice 
or keep minutes. Three Board members were present, along with several other library staff 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
members. The discussion concerned upcoming community events such as staffing a table at the 
Dedham Stroll and preparing raffle baskets. 
Following receipt of the present complaints, the Board held a meeting on March 10, 
2016. During this meeting, the Board voted to take certain actions to formalize the existence of 
the Marketing Committee: (i) identify dates on which the Marketing Committee met, (ii) create 
summaries of past meetings including listing attendees and providing summaries of discussions, 
and (iii) limit the Board's participation on the Marketing Committee to one Board member. 
Further, the Board voted to require the Marketing Committee to abide by the Open Meeting Law 
when holding all future meetings. 
The Departure of the Library Director. 
The Board convened in executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2) on April 14, 
September 16, October 14, and November 4 and 16, 2015 to discuss contract negotiations with 
Dr. Tricarico. During the November 16, 2015 executive session, the Board determined that it 
was unlikely to reach common ground with Dr. Tricarico regarding the terms of her employment 
and voted to end negotiations with her. On November 19, 2015, Dr. Tricarico was notified in a 
meeting with the Board chair and the Human Resources Director that her contract would not be 
renewed. Dr. Tricarico's last day of employment was February 13, 2016. 
On February 19, 2016, the complainant sent an e-mail to the Board requesting minutes of 
executive sessions held on April 14, October 14, and November 23, 2015, as well as minutes of 
open session meetings held on October 14 and 26, 2015. On this same date, the Board chair 
responded to the complainant's request stating that the Board had not yet voted to release the 
requested minutes. The Board met on March 10, 2016 to review the requested minutes. During 
this meeting, the Board reviewed the minutes at issue in executive session and voted to release 
them with some redactions pursuant to the Public Records Law. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Marketing Committee was not a Public Body Subject to the Open Meeting Law, 
and thus its December 4. 2015 Meeting did not Violate the Law. 
One of the complaints alleges that the Board created the Marketing Committee as a 
subcommittee that does not abide by the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. Another 
complaint points to the December 4, 2015 meeting as an example of a time when the Marketing 
Committee met without posting notice or keeping minutes. In so doing, the complaints conflate 
the Public Relations Subcommittee and the Marketing Committee, treating them as one entity. 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). A "public body" is defined in relevant part as any "multiple-
member board, commission, committee or subcommittee . , . however created, elected, appointed 
or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." Id. at § 18. To determine 
whether a multi-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three 
factors we consider that apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2. The entity must be a "body" empowered to act collectively; and 
3 
===PAGE 4===
3, The entity must serve a "public purpose." 
See OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1. 
Here, the Marketing Committee fails the first prong of this test—it is not within 
government, and government appears to have played no role in its creation. See OML 2015-23. 
We note that significant confusion stems from the fact that the complaints—and, indeed, the 
Board itself—used the names "Marketing Committee" and "Public Relations Subcommittee" 
interchangeably. Additionally, the two entities overlapped in their functions and in certain 
membership. However, based on our review of all material presented to us, we conclude that the 
two entities are distinct, and that the Marketing Committee began without any action by the 
Board as a private volunteer-based initiative to design a new library logo.4 While the Public 
Relations Subcommittee may have been a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law when it 
was first created, in any event, the complaints allege Open Meeting Law violations by the 
Marketing Committee only. Further, we note that the Public Relations Subcommittee appears to 
no longer exist. Based on the foregoing, we find that the Marketing Committee was not a public 
body subject to the Open Meeting Law.5 However, we note with approval the Board's March 10 
decision to formalize the Marketing Committee with respect to future meetings and to create 
records of past ones. 
II. The Board was not Required to Discuss the Library Director's Contract in Open 
Session. 
One of the complaints alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by voting to 
suspend negotiations with Dr. Tricarico in executive session. The Open Meeting Law permits 
public bodies to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside of public view for ten 
specific purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One appropriate purpose is "[t]o conduct strategy 
sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel[.]" G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) 
("Purpose 2"). While a public body may agree on terms with individual non-union personnel on 
executive session, the final vote to execute such agreements must be taken by the public body in 
open session. See OML 2015-184. 
Here, the Board voted during its November 16, 2015 executive session to discontinue 
negotiations with Dr. Tricarico. The complainant argues that the Board should have taken this 
vote in open session. While the Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to execute agreements 
in open session, see 2013-195, that is not what took place here. Had the Board reached agreeable 
terms with the Library Director, it would have been necessary for that vote to be taken in public. 
However, the Open Meeting Law does not require the converse. Because nothing in the law 
4 To the extent that one of the complaints alleges improper deliberation by a quorum of the Board during the 
December 4, 2015 Marketing Committee meeting, we note that the December 4, 2015 discussion concerned 
preparation for an upcoming community event, such as staffing a booth and selling raffle tickets. The Board's 
jurisdiction concerns the operation of the library. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (defining "Deliberation" as "oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction") (emphasis added). Because the topics discussed during the December 4, 
2015 meeting did not concern the operation of the library, the Board did not engage in improper deliberation, 
5 In its reply, the Board stated that the Library Director created the Marketing Committee as an advisory body. This, 
too, seems to be incorrect. Indeed, the Library Director has denied taking such action. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
requires that a decision not to negotiate with an employee take place in open session, we find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
III. The Board Followed Proper Procedure in Reviewing and Releasing its Executive 
Session Minutes. 
One of the complaints alleges that the Board withheld executive session minutes after the 
purpose for secrecy had lapsed. Executive session minutes may be withheld as long as their 
disclosure would compromise the purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), A 
public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior to the request, that certain executive 
session minutes should be released, it should respond to the requester directly, notifying him or 
her of the availability of those minutes. See OML 2013-99. If the body has determined that 
executive session minutes should remain confidential because publication would defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason the minutes 
continue to be withheld. Id And if, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a 
review of the minutes to determine whether continued non-disclosure is warranted, the body 
must perform such a review and release any non-exempt minutes no later than its next meeting or 
within 30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the 
public body should still respond to the requestor within ten days, notifying him or her that it is 
conducting this review. See OML 2013-99; OML 2012-86. 
Here, the complainant requested the executive session minutes at issue on February 19. 
On this same date, the Board chair responded, stating that the minutes had not yet been released. 
This satisfied the Board's obligation to respond to the request. See OML 2016-153. 
Furthermore, the Board voted to release the minutes during its March 10 meeting and release 
redacted minutes to the complainant at that time. In essence, the complaint alleges that the 
Board should have released all executive session minutes related to discussions with Dr. 
Tricarico immediately following its November 16, 2015 decision to cease negotiations with her. 
We disagree. Even though the decision to cease negotiations had been made, the Board could 
have reinitiated negotiations with Dr. Tricarico's up until the end of her employment, which 
ended on February 13. Accordingly, the Board still had a negotiating position to protect during 
the period between November 2015 and February of this year. After Dr. Tricarico departed and 
the minutes at issue were requested, the Board acted appropriately with respect to its obligations 
under the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincer^lv 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Dedham Library Board of Trustees 
Michael Chalifoux 
Dr. Mary Ann Tricarico 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 