===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
October 31, 2012 
OML 2012 — 106 
Mark L. Karlberg 
Town of Becket 
Board of Selectmen 
557 Main St. 
Becket, MA 01223 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Karlberg: 
This office received four complaints from Ms. Colleen O'Connor and Ms. Beth Van 
Ness, dated August 11, 2010, September 8, 2010 (2 complaints), and October 7, 2010, alleging 
that the Becket Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. Collectively, the complaints allege that during its meeting on July 1, 2010, the Board 
entered into an "[illegal] executive session;" that the written executive session minutes are a 
"complete inaccuracy" and "incomplete;" and that the Board has unlawfully refused to publicly 
release the audio recording of its July 1, 2010 executive session. Additionally, the complaints 
allege that the Board improperly withheld the July 1, 2010 executive session minutes after the 
purpose for confidentiality had expired. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on 
or about July 28, 2010, August 11, 2010 (two complaints), and October 5, 2010. We do not have 
a record of any response by the Board to these complaints. 
In reaching our determination, we reviewed the August 11, 2010; September 8, 2010; and 
October 7, 2010 complaints; the notice for the Board's July 1, 2010 meeting; the minutes of the 
Board's July 1, 2010 open session meeting; the minutes of the Board's July 1, 2010 executive 
session; the audio recording from the July 1, 2010 meeting, including both the open session and 
the executive session; and a September 1, 2010 email from the Board's counsel sent to the Board 
in response to the complaints. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
entering into executive session on July 1, 2010. Additionally, the Board did not violate the law 
by withholding executive session minutes or failing to create and approve executive session 
minutes. However, we find that the Board did violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
announce all of the purposes for its July 1, 2010 executive session. In addition, we find that the 
is 
===PAGE 2===
audio recording of the Board's July 1, 2010 executive session should be publicly released, 
subject to any applicable redaction or withholding under the Public Records Law or the 
attorney/client privilege, in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. The notice 
for the Board's July 1, 2010 meeting included one topic: "Selectmen to go into Executive 
Session to address Town Administrator contract and will not return to open session." On July 1, 
2010, the Board held a meeting during which Board Chair George Fuller (the "Chair") moved to 
enter executive session to address the Town Administrator's contract. On July 9, 2010, the 
Board posted the open session minutes of its July 1, 2010 meeting on the Town's website, but 
not the executive session minutes. On July 28, 2010, the complainants made their first request 
for the July 1, 2010 executive session minutes. On July 29, 2010, the Board publicly released 
the written executive session minutes, which revealed that the Board discussed the Town 
Administrator's contract, as well as complaints filed against him. On August 11, 2010, both 
complainants filed their complaints with the Board. On or about September 8, 2010, the Board 
responded through counsel that it would not release the audio recording of the meeting pursuant 
to executive session Purposes 2 and 3, and the Public Records Law. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(2), 
(3); G.L. c. 4, § 7(c1.26). The Board asserted that the executive session purposes had not yet 
expired, and therefore the recording could not be released. Additionally, the Board stated that 
the recording is protected under the Public Records Law. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaints allege that during its meeting on July 1, 2010, the Board entered into an 
"[illegal] executive session;" that the written executive session minutes are a "complete 
inaccuracy" and "incomplete;" and that the Board has unlawfully refused to publicly release the 
audio recording of its July 1, 2010 executive session. Additionally, the complaints allege that the 
Board improperly withheld the July 1, 2010 executive session minutes after the purpose for 
confidentiality had expired. We address each issue in turn. 
1. The Board properly entered executive session to discussion the Town Administrator's  
contract, but should have stated that it was also entering to discuss complaints against 
the Town Administrator under executive session Purpose 1.  
The initial issue raised by the complaints is whether the Board properly entered into 
executive session on July 1, 2010, to discuss the Town Administrator's contract. The notice for 
the Board's July 1, 2010 meeting included one topic: "Selectmen to go into Executive Session to 
address Town Administrator contract and will not return to open session." During the open 
session meeting, the Chair stated that the Board would be entering executive session to address 
the Town Administrator's contract. Under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2), a public body may enter 
executive session to conduct "contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." However, the 
Open Meeting Law also requires that the "chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). The executive session minutes reveal 
that not only did the Board discuss the Town Administrator's contract during the executive 
2 
===PAGE 3===
session, but it also discussed certain complaints against him. The Chair should therefore have 
also cited Purpose 1, "to discuss . . . complaints or charges brought against, a public employee," 
at the time he announced the purpose for the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1). 
2. The Board provided the complainants with the July 1, 2010 executive session minutes 
in timely manner.  
The second issue is whether the Board provided the executive session minutes of its July 
1, 2010 meeting to the complainants in a timely manner. Under the Open Meeting Law, the 
"minutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner." G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c). Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session, "the 
body shall respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and shall release any such 
minutes not covered by an exemption under subsection (f); provided, however, that if the body 
has not performed a review pursuant to paragraph (1), the public body shall perform the review 
and release the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body's next 
meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs." G.L. c.30A, § 22(g)(2). The complainants made 
their first request for the Board's July 1, 2010 executive session minutes on July 28, 2010. The 
Board publicly released the executive session minutes on July 29, 2010. From our review of the 
facts, it appears that the Board provided meeting minutes to the complainants within the 10 days 
following their requests, as required by law. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. 
3. The Board's July 1, 2010 executive session minutes are substantially complete and 
accurate.  
The complainants also questioned the accuracy and completeness of the executive session 
minutes of the Board's July 1, 2010 meeting. The complaint alleges that the minutes are a 
"complete inaccuracy," and states that they are incomplete because "they don't name the 
individuals they are referring to." We decline to review whether the minutes are a "complete 
inaccuracy" because we do not review generalized allegations that do not provide specific details 
of an alleged violation. Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our 
office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 
3-12-12 (declining to review a complaint against the Cohasset Board of Selectmen). 1  With 
respect to the more specific allegation that the minutes "don't name the individuals they are 
referring to," we are not clear as to exactly the deficiency alleged. Nonetheless, the law states 
that "a public body shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth. . . a summary of the discussion on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Our office will generally 
only review minutes for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2011-
55. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and 
accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes 
and have a clear understanding of what occurred. After reviewing the audio recording of both 
the open session and the executive session of the Board's July 1, 2010 meeting, this office finds 
1  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetinu.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
that the Board's approved, written executive session minutes are substantially complete and 
accurate with respect to naming the individuals that the Board discussed. 
4. The recording of the Board's July 1, 2010 executive session may no longer be 
withheld under the Open Meeting Law.  
The final issue raised by the complainants is whether the Board may withhold from 
public disclosure the audio recording of its July 1, 2010 executive session. The "minutes of any 
executive session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such 
minutes . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety" (emphasis added) 
under the Public Records law "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Because it has been two years since the 
meeting, there is a new Town Administrator, and the contract negotiations have been resolved, 
the Board no longer has a purpose for withholding the recording under the Open Meeting Law. 
G.L. c. 30A §22(f). Although the purpose for withholding the recording under the Open 
Meeting Law has expired, the Board may continue to withhold or redact the recording pursuant 
to the Public Records Law, if an appropriate exemption applies, or under the attorney/client 
privilege. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to announce all of the 
purposes for its July 1, 2010 executive session. We find that the Board provided the 
complainants with the July 1, 2010 meeting minutes within the period required by the law, and 
thus find no violation. We find that the executive session minutes substantially comply with the 
Law's requirements. Additionally, we find that the Board's executive session purpose for 
withholding the audio recording of the July 1, 2010 executive session has expired. Under the 
Open Meeting Law, the Board must publicly release the audio recording, if it has not done so 
already, though it may withhold or redact the recording in accordance with the Public Records 
Law or the attorney/client privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting law, and note that future similar violations may beconsidered 
evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any facts in this letter 
to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 
===PAGE 5===
cc: 	 Ms. Beth Van Ness 
Ms. Colleen O'Connor 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
5 