===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www. mass. gov/ago
July 25,2019 
OML 2019-87
Gloria Bouillon 
Airport Manager 
Beverly Regional Airport 
50 L.P. Henderson Road 
Beverly, MA 01915
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Ms. Bouillon:
This office received a complaint from Mark Zuberek on February 5, 2019, alleging that 
the Beverly Airport Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about January 2, 
2019, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated January 17, 2019. 
Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Commission denied Mr. Zuberek access to 
Commission meetings.
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
denying Mr. Zuberek access to its meetings. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Commission’s response, an affidavit filed by you in federal court, and a 
letter from counsel for the Complainant dated February 5, 2019 with attached exhibits including 
an email exchange between you and Mr. Zuberek dated December 6 and 7, 2018 and the Notice 
of No Trespass. We also communicated by phone with counsel for the Beverly Regional Airport 
on July 1, 2019. In addition, we reviewed meeting agendas posted to the Beverly Regional 
Airport’s website.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Commission regularly held monthly meetings at the 
Beverly Regional Airport Administration Building at 50 L. P. Henderson Road, Beverly, 
Massachusetts. On October 10, 2018, the Complainant attended a Commission meeting at the 
Beverly Regional Airport Administration Building. On or about November 1, 2018, the Airport
o
1

===PAGE 2===
Manager1, on behalf of the Commission, issued a Notice of No Trespass to the Complainant 
prohibiting him from entering onto all property that constitutes the Beverly Regional Airport.2 
The Notice of No Trespass instructed the Complainant to contact the Airport Manager in writing 
should he wish to contest the Notice or to request permission to access the airport if he felt he 
had legitimate business requiring his physical presence at the airport.
On December 6, 2018, the Complainant sent a letter via electronic mail to the Airport 
Manager requesting that he be permitted to attend the Commission’s upcoming December 
meeting and all subsequent meetings of the Commission. On December 7, 2018, the Airport 
Manager responded to the Complainant denying his request to attend Commission meetings. On 
January 2, 2019, the Complainant filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the Commission 
alleging that the December 7 denial, as well as the Notice of No Trespass, violated the Open 
Meeting Law. On January 17, 2019, the Airport Manager, on behalf of the Commission, 
responded to the Open Meeting Law complaint by stating, in part, that “[cheating a limited 
exception to the No Trespass Notice under conditions that would allow you to attend meetings 
personally is something that [the Airport Manager] and the Commission will consider, however, 
at this time the notice remains in effect due to security concerns.” The Commission’s response 
proposed alternatives to physical attendance at the meetings, including the possibility of 
broadcasting the meetings and allowing the Complainant to communicate with members of the 
Commission in writing, by phone, or in person somewhere other than the airport. The 
Commission also considered allowing the Complainant to attend its meetings with a police escort 
but concluded that this was prohibitively expensive. Beginning with its May 2019 meeting, the 
Commission moved its meetings to Beverly City Hall, where the Complainant has been 
permitted to attend.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be open 
and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.3 Access to a meeting must 
include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being 
discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; 
OML 2013-189.4 Notwithstanding the requirements that meetings be open and accessible to the 
public, a public body may take reasonable steps to ensure the safety and good order of public
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
2 There is substantial disagreement between the Beverly Regional Airport and the Complainant as to whether certain 
events took place, including whether the Complainant at any time attempted to access restricted areas of the airport, 
whether the Complainant continued to attempt to access areas of the airport after being explicitly prohibited, and 
whether the Complainant attempted to video record areas of the airport. The scope of our determination is limited to 
the Open Meeting Law only and we make no determination as to whether the Notice of No Trespass was properly 
issued or should remain in effect.
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
4 For this reason, broadcasting the Commission’s meetings for the Complainant to view remotely, as the 
Commission proposed, would not have satisfied the Law’s requirements.
2

===PAGE 3===
meetings. See OML 2015-92; OML 2018-77. By “good order” we mean protection against 
violent, threatening or abusive behavior, and not merely behavior that may disrupt a meeting. 
Disruptive behavior should be addressed by removing the person from the meeting. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(g); OML 2018-77; OML 2019-14.
We note that the Commission’s meetings were open meetings accessible to the general 
public, but we review to determine whether the meetings were also accessible to the 
Complainant. We find that Commission meetings held between December 2018 and April 2019 
were not accessible to the Complainant.5 On December 6, 2018, the Complainant specifically 
requested “to attend the Beverly Airport Commission monthly meeting in December 2018, and 
all subsequent Beverly Airport Commission meetings.” The Airport Manager denied his request 
on December 7, 2018, by email stating “[y]our attached request to attend Beverly Airport 
Commission meetings is also denied, in accordance with the attached, Notice of No Trespass.”
The Commission issued the Notice of No Trespass to the Complainant banning him from 
all airport property, including public areas of the airport where Commission meetings were held, 
as a result of the Complainant’s alleged behavior that the airport found suspicious, and out of 
concern for airport security and general public safety. We understand that the exclusion of the 
Complainant from public areas of the airport was due, at least in part, to the fact that secure areas 
of the airport can be viewed and potentially accessed from the public areas. Our jurisdiction is 
limited to enforcing the Open Meeting Law, so we do not review whether the Notice of No 
Trespass was properly issued in the first instance, nor are we empowered to vacate the Notice, as 
the Complainant requests.
Although we do not second guess the Commission’s judgment in issuing the Notice of 
No Trespass generally, and we appreciate the unique and heightened safety concerns applicable 
to an airport, the Commission should have ensured that enforcement of its order did not violate 
the Complainant’s rights under the Open Meeting Law. The Commission made no showing of a 
specific, articulable threat to public safety should the Complainant be allowed to attend the 
Commission’s public meetings, see OML 2018-77, nor did it make any effort to resolve its 
security concerns in a manner that would allow the Complainant to attend Commission meetings 
until several months later, when it moved its meetings to Beverly City Hall. We therefore find 
that from December 2018 through April 2019, the Commission denied the Complainant access to 
its meetings in violation of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar 
violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02.
5 Although the Commission held a meeting at the Airport Administration Building on November 13, 2018, after 
issuance of the Notice of No Trespass, there is no evidence that the Complainant sought to attend this meeting and 
was denied access. Compare OML 2019-14 (finding no violation of the Open Meeting Law where there was no 
evidence that an individual who had been barred from the Fall River City Hall actually requested or attempted to 
attend public meetings held at City Hall).
3

===PAGE 4===
Since the filing of this complaint, the Commission has moved its meetings to Beverly City Hall, 
a location where the Complainant is no longer excluded from attendance; we therefore order no 
further remedial action.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Mark Zuberek
Naomi Shatz, Esq.
David S. Monastersky, Esq.
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
