===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
       August 18, 2025 
 
OML 2025 – 127 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick McPhee on January 16, 2025, alleging that 
the Ashby Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or around October 11, 2024, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, on November 18, following an extension of 
time granted by our office.
1  The complaint alleges that the Board posted an insufficiently 
specific notice for its October 9 meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the Board’s response, and the 
complainant’s request for review of the complaint.  We also reviewed the notice and minutes for 
the Board’s October 9 meeting, as well as a video recording of the October 9 meeting.
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice for a meeting to take place on 
October 9 at 7:00 P.M.  The notice included a list of 13 topics for discussion, among them “6. 
Discussion re: Main Street Halloween Event, road closure – Nash Rd. to Erickson Rd., pending 
sufficient coverage from Police Department, Highway Department and Fire Department, votes 
may be taken”; “7. Discussion re: ARPA Funds/Engine 1 Pumper Repair $44,544.98, votes may 
be taken”; “8. Discussion re: Scheduling of Special Town Meeting on December 3, 2024 at 6:30 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024, unless specified otherwise. 
2 A video of the October 9 meeting is available at https://vimeo.com/1026532511?share=copy.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
PM at Ashby Elementary School, votes may be taken”; and “10. Vote to award the 
Telecommunication Tower Bid/Lease to SBA Communications Corp.” 
 
The Board convened the October 9 meeting as scheduled.  After conducting other 
business, the Board received a motion to close Main Street to traffic on Halloween between Nash 
Road and Erickson Road.  The Chair called for discussion; there was none; and the motion 
passed unanimously.  The Board then engaged in a short discussion of the use of American 
Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds for repair of the pumper on a fire engine; the town administrator 
clarified that after reviewing the status of the Town’s ARPA funds with the Town accountant, it 
was recommended to rescind certain prior votes and return unspent funds to the Town’s ARPA 
fund balance.  The Board so voted, and then also voted unanimously to allocate $44,544.98 of 
ARPA funds to the fire engine pump repair.  Next, the Board discussed the scheduling of a 
special town meeting.  The town administrator explained that the Department of Revenue had 
notified the Town that a vote taken at the prior Town Meeting to certify the tax rate was 
defective due to improper or imprecise language used, and therefore Town Meeting needed to re-
vote to certify the tax rate.  Without further discussion, the Board voted to schedule a Special 
Town Meeting for December 3.  With regard to the award of the telecommunication tower lease, 
the town administrator explained that only one bid was received, and that under the terms of the 
proposal the Town would receive a $50,000 lease payment as well as a portion of monthly 
proceeds.  Without further discussion, the Board voted unanimously to award the lease to SBA 
Communications Corp.  The Board then discussed other matters before adjourning.  The entire 
meeting lasted approximately 22 minutes. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  The Open Meeting 
Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a 
discussion.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see also OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.
3  
A notice need not include each and every detail about an anticipated discussion, only that topics 
be listed with “sufficient specificity” so that the public can decide whether to attend the meeting 
and observe the discussions regarding the topics anticipated for discussion.  See OML 2023-108; 
OML 2018-22; OML 2018-7.   
 
When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2021-22; OML 
2020-137; OML 2019-64.   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
After review, we are satisfied that each of the notice topics identified in the instant 
complaint were sufficiently specific, and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  The 
complainant asserts that he submitted requests for clarification or sought additional detail 
regarding some of the topics and received no response, either in advance or during the meeting.  
The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the content of a discussion at a meeting.  See OML 
2024-176; OML 2023-35; OML 2022-189.  Nor does the Law require that a public body discuss 
a matter in any particular depth.  See OML 2025-39; OML 2023-107; OML 2022-231.  
Likewise, although we encourage public bodies to be responsive to the residents they represent, 
the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body provide additional detail regarding 
discussion topics upon request, provided that the meeting notice is otherwise sufficient.  For 
example, the complainant asked why the Halloween road closure was listed on the notice when it 
had not been in prior years, and why the Highway and Fire Departments were involved when in 
the past only a police detail was provided.  The Board did not discuss those issues during the 
meeting and was not required to include additional information on the notice nor provide 
additional context to the complainant.    
 
The complainant also asserts that the use of the acronym “ARPA” on the meeting notice 
rendered the notice insufficiently specific, because the acronym “ARPA” is ambiguous.  We 
disagree.  The complainant is correct that we advise public bodies to avoid using abbreviations 
or acronyms on notices if they are not widely understood by members of the public.  See OML 
2016-5 (finding that the acronym “PILOT” is not one that members of the public are likely to 
understand); Cf. OML 2015-172 (concluding that “FAA” is a widely understood acronym).  
Here, we are satisfied that the acronym “ARPA” has become widely used over the past few years 
as shorthand for the American Rescue Plan Act, which provided funding to state and local 
governments to allocate toward certain projects.   
 
Regarding the scheduling of the special town meeting to address the error regarding the 
certification of the tax rate, the complainant asserts that the language on the previous Town 
Meeting warrant was unclear and that “[t]he jargon used on the warrant to correct this error, is 
even more unclear.”  The Division of Open Government does not review the sufficiency or 
clarity of Town Meeting warrants, see OML 2025-40, and we note that the Board did not engage 
in a substantive discussion of the warrant or the warrant language.  It only acknowledged that it 
needed to schedule a Special Town Meeting to correct an issue.  The Board’s vote was limited to 
the scheduling of the meeting, not the language of the warrant, and the notice adequately 
described the topic to be discussed. 
 
Lastly, regarding the vote to award the telecommunication tower lease, the complainant 
asserts that he asked whether the cellular carriers (AT&T and Verizon) would be changing and 
the Board was unable to answer his question.  Where the Board did not discuss the carriers, the 
meeting notice was not insufficient for not including this detail.   
 
As a final matter, in the request for further review of the complaint, the complainant 
asserts that the minutes of the Board’s October 9 meeting are insufficient in various respects, 
including that they lack clarity and detail regarding some of the topics discussed.  We do not 
review allegations raised for the first time in a request for further review that were not raised in a 
complaint filed with the public body.  See OML 2021-99; OML 2020-3; OML Declination 4-22-
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
15 (Natick Economic Development Committee).  Although we do not formally review this 
concern, after briefly reviewing the minutes and the video recording of the October 9 meeting we 
note that the minutes appear to contain an accurate and sufficiently detailed summary of the 
discussions and contain a clear record of action taken.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (“A public body 
shall create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting 
forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on 
each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and 
the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”).  Meeting minutes need not, 
and should not, include information beyond that which was discussed.  The Open Meeting Law 
does not dictate the content or depth of a discussion at a meeting; rather, it requires that meeting 
minutes accurately summarize what was actually discussed.  See OML 2023-76; OML 2023-35; 
OML 2022-189; OML 2016-155 (minutes should reflect what was actually discussed at a 
meeting, not matters that were not discussed). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick McPhee (via email: ) 
Ashby Selectboard (via email: tadministrator@ashbyma.gov) 
 Ashby Town Clerk (via email: tclerk@ashbyma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
