===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNKY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 16, 2018 
OML 2018-19 
Joan L. Stein, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Stein: 
This office received a complaint from Zachary Spilman on May 14 alleging that the 
Dover-Sherbom School Committee Negotiation Team (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on April 6; and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 27. The 
complaint alleges that the Committee withheld certain executive session minutes after the 
purpose for continued nondisclosure of the minutes had expired. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the complaint, 
and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the 
executive session minutes from Committee meetings that were held on September 29, 2016; 
October 27, 2016; November 16, 2016; December 14, 2016; January 30; February 8; February 
13; March 2; March 13; and March 21. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on 
September 26 and February 2, 2018; and with you by telephone on September 28 and February 
5, 2018.2 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee entered into executive session under G. L. 
c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2") ten times between September 2016 and March 2017 and 
engaged in collective bargaining negotiations with the Dover Sherbom Education Association, 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
reaching an agreement in May 2017. The Committee separately met in executive session under 
Purpose 3 between June 2016 and March 2017 to discuss strategy with respect to that collective 
bargaining. 
On March 10, the complainant requested copies of "all minutes of the executive sessions 
of the negotiations with the Dover-Sherbom Education Association in 2016 and 2017." On 
March 20, the Interim Superintendent of the Dover and Sherbom Public Schools advised the 
complainant "that the minutes from the executive sessions you are requesting will be reviewed" 
and a determination will then be made whether they can be released. On March 31, the 
Committee advised the complainant that a review of the executive session minutes had occurred 
during a March 30 meeting and that the Committee determined that disclosure of the minutes 
would defeat the lawful purpose of the executive sessions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session minutes may be 
withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of 
the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f). When the purpose for a valid 
executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at the session 
must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records 
Law applies. Id. The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184(1988). 
Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "[t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to "release minutes of the executive 
sessions held to conduct collective bargaining." The Committee argues that release of the 
minutes will have a detrimental effect on its bargaining position in the future. We distinguish the 
situation where a public body enters executive session to conduct actual collective bargaining 
negotiations under Purpose 2 with one in which it enters executive session to discuss strategy 
with respect to collective bargaining negotiations under Purpose 3. We have held that where a 
public body's discussions touch upon long-term strategy that could harm a future bargaining 
position with respect to subsequent collective bargaining agreements, executive session minutes 
may be withheld for a period of time beyond the conclusion of the collective bargaining or 
contract negotiation sessions. See OML 2012-41; OML 2015-52.3 Here, the Committee met in 
executive session under Purpose 2 and conducted contract negotiations with the Dover Sherbom 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Education Association. The negotiations concluded in May when a contract was reached. While 
the Committee's discussions may have revealed part of its strategy, those discussions occurred 
during contract negotiations with the relevant collective bargaining unit. Once negotiations end 
and a contract is executed, the Committee no longer has a negotiating position to protect with 
respect to the items discussed during those Purpose 2 executive session meetings. See OML 
2011-28; OML 2012-38. 
Even though negotiations have now concluded, we do not find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law because, at the time of the request for minutes, the Committee was still engaged in 
an ongoing collective bargaining negotiation. Therefore, it did not need to publicly release the 
minutes from the executive sessions at that time. However, since a contract has now been 
reached, we recommend that the Committee publicly release its executive session minutes as 
publication of the minutes of the sessions will no longer "defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session." See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(f). 
Finally, while not raised in the complaint, we note that the Committee did not record in 
its minutes the purpose for entering executive session or the votes to enter such session. A 
public body may enter executive, or closed, session provided that it has first convened in an open 
session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that 
the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive 
session, including all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session 
will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. M. Attorney Stein has assured this 
office that the Committee did first convene in open session and then unanimously voted to enter 
executive session. However, the Open Meeting Law requires that the votes be recorded by roll 
call and entered into the minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(2). Since the Open Meeting Law 
requires that a public body convene in open session before entering executive session, we 
recommend that the Committee create open session minutes which record the purpose for 
entering executive session and the vote of each member, along with the date, time and place of 
the meeting in accordance with the law's requirements. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to release 
executive session minutes because the purpose for keeping those minutes confidential still 
existed at the time of the request for minutes. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
j^JL 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Zachary Spilman 
Dover-Sherbom School Committee Negotiation Team 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 