===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 27, 2014 
OML 2014-55 
Susan H. Bonner, Chair 
Nahant Housing Authority 
194 Nahant Road 
Nahant, MA 01908 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Bonner: 
This office received a complaint from Gretchen Benkert, dated February 18, 2014, 
alleging that the Nahant Housing Authority (the Authority) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Authority on or about January 20, 
2014, and you responded, on behalf of the Authority, to the complaint by letter dated January 29, 
2014.' In her complaint, Ms. Benkert alleges that during its January 7, 2014 meeting, the 
Authority's meeting location did not comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (the 
ADA). Additionally, Ms. Benkert alleges that the Authority failed to post notice of this meeting 
in the lobby of the building in which the Authority meets and that the Authority declined her 
request to be placed on upcoming meeting agendas in order to participate at the December 3, 
2013 and January 7, 2014 meetings. 
We reviewed the January 20, 2014 complaint; the Authority's January 29, 2014 response 
to the complaint; and the February 18, 2014 complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed a Massachusetts Office on Disability report on the Authority's 
building. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Chair Susan Bonner and with Executive Director 
Donna McDonald. 
Following our review, we find that, while the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by not posting its meetings in the Authority building or by declining to permit the 
complainant to participate at its meetings, the Authority did violate the Open Meeting Law by 
' For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. We remind the Authority that, while a 
public body may authorize an individual such as the Chair or Town Counsel to respond on the public body's behalf, 
the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General's regulations require that the entire public body first review the 
Open Meeting Law complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). It does not appear that the Authority 
reviewed the complaint prior to Ms. Bonner's response, though the Authority reviewed her response during its 
February 4,2014 meeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
meeting in a location that was not accessible to all members of the public. We commend the 
Authority for taking some remedial action in response to the complaint. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. During its January 7, 2014 meeting, the Authority convened 
at its regular meeting location in the basement of the Spindrift building, which houses the 
Authority. The Town of Nahant's official notice posting method is a bulletin board outside 
Town Hall. The Authority, through the Town Clerk, posted the meeting notice for its January 7, 
2014 meeting on this bulletin board. Upon the filing of this complaint, as a courtesy to its 
residents, the Authority agreed to begin posting an additional copy of its meeting notices in the 
reception area of the Spindrift building. 
There are three ways to access the basement of the Spindrift building: (1) from the first 
floor, via an interior stairwell between the first floor and the basement, which includes a stair lift; 
(2) from the first floor, via an exterior ramp between the first floor and the basement; or (3) from 
the outside of the building, via a separate entrance to the basement that is accessible from the 
lower level parking lot. The stair lift is not independently accessible as it requires an individual 
with a wheelchair to request assistance from another individual to carry the wheelchair between 
floors. The building has two parking lot levels. At the time of the meeting, the main parking lot 
level had designated handicapped accessible parking spaces; however the lower level parking lot 
did not. 
Prior to the filing of this complaint, the Massachusetts Office on Disability, the state 
advocacy agency whose primary mission is to ensure access to people with disabilities, had 
conducted a review of the building and issued a report with its findings on November 21, 2013. 
In referencing the exterior ramp, the report found that the "[tjhere is no accessible route between 
the residential first floor and the housing office located in the basement level." 
The complainant, who uses a wheelchair, attended the Authority's January 7, 2014 
meeting. In order to do so, she required assistance to exit the meeting because the exterior ramp 
from the basement to the first floor is on an uphill incline. Following the filing of this complaint, 
the Authority pledged to designate a handicapped accessible parking space in the lower level 
parking lot so that mobility impaired individuals could access Authority meetings through the 
basement entrance. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a public body must be open to the 
public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. OML 2014-
3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. In addition, for a meeting to be truly "open to the public," it 
must be held at a location that is accessible to persons with disabilities. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); 
2 
===PAGE 3===
see also OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings of public bodies must be held in locations that are 
compliant with the ADA). 
The Authority violated the Open Meeting Law because the location for its January 7, 
2014 meeting was not ADA compliant, thereby impeding the public's access to the meeting. See 
OML 2014-19; OML 2014-3. The Civil Rights Division of this Office3 determined that the first 
and second options for accessing the basement ~ the exterior ramp and the stairs aided by a chair 
lift ~ were not accessible to everyone, including individuals with mobility impairment. The third 
available option ~ the basement entrance, accessible by parking in the lower level lot — was not 
accessible because the lower level parking lot did not have a designated handicapped accessible 
parking space. However, the Board took appropriate remedial action following this complaint by 
adding a designated handicapped parking space in the lower level parking lot. According to the 
Civil Rights Division, based on the addition of a handicapped accessible parking space in the 
lower level parking lot, the basement's exterior entrance now meets the minimum requirements 
of the ADA. We acknowledge the Authority's efforts to be responsive to the complainant's 
concerns, and we encourage the Authority to continue to improve accessibility to its meetings. 
The Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. The Town's 
official notice posting method is the bulletin board outside of Town Hall. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a). While it is not required, the Authority additionally posts some of 
its notices on the Town's website. Following the filing of this complaint, the Authority also 
agreed to post a copy of its notices in the reception area of the Spindrift building as a courtesy to 
its residents. The website and the reception area at the Spindrift building are not the official 
posting method, however. See OML 2013-42 (where a public body has posted its notice to the 
official notice posting site, the additional posting to an alternative site is a matter of courtesy to 
the public and not required by the Open Meeting Law). Because the Authority complied with 
the Open Meeting Law's requirements by posting notice of its January 7, 2014 meeting on the 
bulletin board outside of Town Hall, we find no violation. 
Finally, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies allow public 
participation in any form. The law states that, "[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public 
body without permission of the chair." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The law gives the chair of the 
public body discretion to decide whether or not to permit public comment during a meeting, and 
we encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time permits. OML 
2014-31; OML 2014-23. However, the Authority did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
declining the complainant's requests to be added to certain meeting agendas. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The Civil Rights Division enforces federal and state laws protecting the rights of individuals with disabilities, 
including Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.. the Massachusetts 
Public Accommodation Law, G.L. c. 272, §§ 92A & 98, and the Massachusetts Equal Rights Act, G.L. c. 93, § 103. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Authority violated the Open Meeting Law 
by meeting in a location that was not accessible to all members of the public. We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Authority. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. We also invite the Authority to contact Bethany Brown in our Civil Rights 
Division at (617) 963-2939 if it would like additional guidance on compliance with the ADA's 
requirements. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Gretchen Benkert 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
4 