===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 16,2017 
OML 2017-99 
Winchester School Committee 
do Dr. Judith Evans, Superintendent 
40 Samoset Road 
Winchester, MA 01890 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Dr. Evans: 
This office received a complaint from Claire Barden on April 24, alleging that the 
Winchester School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 
23, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 23.2 In her 
complaint, Ms. Barden alleges that the notice for the Committee's March 23 meeting was 
posted in a location that was not available to the public at all hours of the day and it failed 
to conspicuously record the date and time that it was posted. Additionally, Ms. Barden 
alleges that the Committee failed to create minutes from that meeting. Finally, Ms. Barden 
alleges that the Town failed to publicly post a description of the alternative notice posting 
method available to the public 24 hours a day at Town Hall. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to properly post notice of its March 23 meeting. We find no violation with 
respect to the other allegations cited in the complaint, however. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Committee's March 23 meeting. Finally, we spoke 
with you on April 13 and May 9 and we spoke with the town clerk on May 16.3 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
2 The date of this response is incorrect. The Committee discussed this complaint during its April 4 meeting 
and sent its response to the complainant the following day. 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
Ci 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On March 23, the Town notified our office that it had 
adopted its website as the official notice posting location in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(c). The next day, the Town posted a description of the new posting method at 
Town Hall, both at the main entrance and the handicapped-accessible entrance. Prior to 
March 23, the Town had posted notices on a bulletin board at Town Hall which was only 
available to the public during business hours.4 The town clerk had also posted notice of 
meetings of certain public bodies, including those of the Committee, on the Town website. 
On March 15, the Committee posted notice of a meeting scheduled for March 23 on 
the bulletin board at Town Hall. Courtesy copies of this notice were also posted on the 
Town and school district websites. This notice was subsequently revised on March 17 and 
March 21. All three versions of the notice were date-stamped.5 The Committee created 
draft minutes during the meeting, which were approved at its next meeting on April 4. In 
response to this complaint, the Committee provided the complainant with a copy of the 
draft minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law requires 
that the municipal clerk post notice of meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such notice is not conspicuously visible to the public during hours 
when the clerk's office is closed, such notice shall also be made available through one of 
the alternative methods approved by the Attorney General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), 
such as a website. A description of such alternative method shall be posted in a manner 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main and handicapped 
accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. 940 
CMR 29.03(1). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's March 23 meeting notice was posted in 
a location that was not available to the public 24 hours a day. We agree and find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. As the Committee acknowledges, the bulletin 
board at Town Hall did not comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirement that notices 
be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 24 hours a day. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(c); OML 2017-7.6 The complaint also alleges that the notice 
posted on the website failed to include the date and time that it was posted. The website 
4 Town Hall is generally open Monday through Thursday from 7:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M. and Friday from 
7:30 A.M. through 3:00 P.M. 
5 We note that the notices posted on the website were not date-stamped. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
was not the official notice posting method at the time the complaint was filed, however. 
The notice posted on the bulletin board—the official posting method at the time—did 
conspicuously record the date and time of its posting. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); see also 
OML 2016-173; OML 2013-44 ("if a notice is revised, the revised notice must 
conspicuously record on or with the notice both the date and time the original notice was 
posted as well as the date and time the last revision was posted.") Accordingly, we find 
that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this regard. We note that, in 
response to this complaint, the Committee and the town clerk have pledged to post a date-
stamped version of each meeting notice to the website. We commend the Committee and 
the town clerk for taking steps to ensure compliance with the law's notice posting 
requirements. 
The complaint further alleges that a description of the Town's official notice 
posting method is not available for public view 24 hours a day. Because the Town had not 
adopted the website as the official notice posting method until the day this complaint was 
filed, we find no violation. A municipality need not post such a description unless it 
adopts an alternative method, such as a website. See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a) (a description 
of an alternative method "shall be posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at 
all hours on or adjacent to the main and handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal 
building in which the clerk's office is located.") We commend the Town for posting such 
a description at the entrances to Town Hall upon its adoption of the website. 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee failed to create minutes from the 
March 23 meeting. The complaint was filed just hours after the meeting had occurred. By 
then, the minutes were drafted, but not yet approved. The Open Meeting Law requires 
minutes to be created and approved in a "timely manner." See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a), (c). 
Although the Open Meeting Law does not define "timely manner," we recommend that 
minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting or two. See OML 2017-71; 2014-
15. The Committee followed this exact advice when it approved the minutes on April 4. 
Accordingly, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to properly post notice of its March 23 meeting. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we 
caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our 
office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
3 
===PAGE 4===
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
ce: Claire Barden 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 