===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 23, 2019
OML 2019-120
Kimberly M. Saillant, Esq.
Brooks & DeRensis 
111 Devonshire Street, Suite 800 
Boston, MA 02109
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Saillant:
This office received a complaint from Joseph Hurley on February 8, 2019, alleging that 
the Canton Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 29, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 19. The complaint alleges that a 
quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting, and restricted public 
participation during its November 15 meeting.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a 
posted meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting in the other way 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We 
also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of the Board’s April 12, July 12, August 16, 
November 15, and December 18 meetings, as well as a video recording of the November 15 
meeting.2 Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on April 4, 2019 and August 30, 
2019, and with you by e-mail on September 5, 2019.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, with two 
alternates; thus two members constitute a quorum. Around the beginning of March, the Board
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The video recording of the November 15 meeting was provided to us by the complainant.
o

===PAGE 2===
received a site plan application for a six-unit multi-family dwelling at 2 Meetinghouse Road in 
Canton.
Between April 12 and November 15, the Board held three public hearings with respect to 
the project at 2 Meetinghouse Road. Those hearings were held on April 12, August 16, and 
November 15 and the Board duly posted notices for these meetings.
During the April 12 meeting, the Board opened the hearing pertaining to the project at 2 
Meetinghouse Road and heard from the applicant’s attorney, Attorney Suzanne Matthews, who 
explained that the project would consist of five residential town houses and one commercial unit. 
The Board then heard from several residents who raised concerns about parking, traffic, lighting 
and dumpsters. The Board suggested that the applicant meet with the neighbors and then 
continued the public hearing to July 12.
During a July 12 meeting, the Board did not discuss the project at 2 Meetinghouse Road 
but simply continued the public hearing until August 16.
During the August 16 meeting, the Board heard from Attorney Matthews who stated that 
the applicant is not seeking any zoning relief but simply approval of the site plan. Attorney 
Matthews explained that since the property is located in a business zone, the applicant can 
construct a multi-family dwelling as a matter of right. She stated that the applicant has met with 
neighbors but has not been able to reach a consensus on the size of the project or the number of 
dwellings. The Board continued the public hearing to September 27.
During a September 27 meeting, the Board did not discuss the project at 2 Meetinghouse 
Road but simply continued the public hearing until November 15.
By letter dated November 1, Fire Chief Charles Doody advised the Board and Planning 
Board that he had reviewed the site plan for 2 Meetinghouse Road and determined that there was 
adequate room for emergency vehicles on Meetinghouse Road itself but that he was concerned 
with the ability of emergency vehicles to turn into Meetinghouse Road. Board Vice Chair 
Gregory Pando was confused by the Fire Chiefs letter and reached out to him for further 
clarification.
On November 15, prior to the Board’s meeting, Mr. Pando individually spoke with Board 
member Gary Vinciguerra and alternate Board member Charles Armando advising them of his 
conversation with the Fire Chief. Mr. Pando further discussed with each member his belief that 
the site plan approval was “as of right” and therefore a commercial space on the property may be 
“as of right.”
During the November 15 meeting, Mr. Pando reviewed the history of 2 Meetinghouse 
Road. He explained that the property was located in a business zone but housed a single-family 
dwelling. The property was being sold to the applicant who wished to build multi-family 
dwellings. Mr. Pando explained that a multi-family construction appeared to be “as of right” and 
simply needed site plan approval from the Board, with no special permits or variances. Mr. 
Pando stated that he spoke with the Fire Chief about the project and then individually relayed 
that conversation to Mr. Vinciguerra and Mr. Armando. Mr. Pando then suggested that the 
Board approve four dwelling units but no commercial unit for the Meetinghouse Road property. 
Mr. Pando indicated that he had discussions individually with members of the Board, stating “we
2

===PAGE 3===
have kicked it around” and come to the decision that four units on the property is the best 
solution. Mr. Armando later stated that “this was thought of and discussed within the last 24 
hours by this Board.” The Board heard from Attorney Matthews who stated that this was a 
reasonable compromise, and from several residents, including the complainant. The Board 
unanimously voted to grant a variance to allow more than one building on the 2 Meetinghouse 
Road lot with a maximum of four residential units and to “continue the hearing for the 
development of the Site Plan.”
The Board met on December 18 and discussed Mr. Hurley’s Open Meeting Law 
complaint. Mr. Pando then disclosed the conversations between himself, Mr. Vinciguerra and 
Mr. Armando that occurred on November 15 prior to the Board’s meeting. Specifically, Mr. 
Pando stated that, on the day of the November 15 meeting, he contacted Mr. Vinciguerra and Mr. 
Armando individually and advised them that the Fire Chiefs letter was a positive 
recommendation of the Meetinghouse Road project. Mr. Pando further disclosed that the 
discussions he had with both Mr. Vinciguerra and Mr. Armando included the opinion that “the 
site plan approval may be as of right rather than requiring special permits.”
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id.
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated about the Meetinghouse 
Road project prior to its November 15 meeting. The Board acknowledges that Mr. Pando spoke 
individually with one Board member and one alternate Board member about his conversation 
with the Fire Chief but suggests that information was simply relayed and not “deliberate[d] on.” 
The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of “deliberation” for 
discussions that do not result in a decision or vote. Here, a quorum of the Board discussed a 
matter that had previously been discussed by the Board and was still pending before it. See 
OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland. 479 
Mass. 233, 243 (2018).3 Moreover, the discussions included the opinion of one Board member, 
whether the site plan was “as of right,” on a matter that was under active consideration by the 
Board. See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland. 479
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
Mass. 233, 243 (2018). The expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters 
within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33.
The Board suggests that any individual discussions between members relative to its 
decision to limit the Meetinghouse Road project to four units was not a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law because two members do not constitute a quorum as it takes a unanimous vote of 
all three Board members to approve the site plan. Regardless of the number of members needed 
to approve the site plan under zoning laws, the Open Meeting Law defines “quorum” as a simple 
majority of the members of the public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. For purposes of determining 
deliberation, here, a quorum of members is two. The Board admitted during the November 15 
meeting that individual conversations occurred between Mr. Pando, Mr. Vinciguerra, and Mr. 
Armando and that they “kicked around” a resolution for the Meetinghouse Road project within 
the 24 hours prior to the meeting. We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when 
a quorum discussed matters within the Board’s jurisdiction outside of the November 15 meeting.
Although we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside 
of a posted meeting, we decline to find an intentional violation because the actions appear to 
result from a serious misunderstanding of the law’s requirements. See OML 2017-40; OML 
2016-169. In fact, Mr. Pando and Mr. Armando publicly mentioned their pre-meeting 
discussions at the November 15 meeting, without any apparent understanding that the 
discussions should not have occurred, and furthermore, we note that the Board disclosed the 
conversations between Mr. Pando, Mr. Vinciguerra, and Mr. Armando during its December 18 
meeting after receiving the Open Meeting Law complaint.
Finally, the complaint alleges that neighbors and abutters were denied the opportunity to 
further debate the decision the Board issued with respect to the 2 Meetinghouse Road project 
during the November 15 meeting. The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address 
a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to 
permit public comment during a meeting. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.
It is not a violation of the Open Meeting Law for a public body to vote on a topic without first 
taking comments from the public. See OML 2013-64; OML 2012-59; OML 2012-23.
Moreover, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting by limiting public participation during the 
meeting, as it is within the Chair’s discretion to do so.4 See OML 2017-181. We do, however, 
encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and circumstances 
permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129; OML 2012-59.
4 The Division of Open Government is charged specifically with reviewing complaints to determine compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, thus we decline to review, and offer no opinion on, whether any 
actions taken by the Board could be a violation of any other law or regulation pertaining to public hearings. See 
OML 2014-31; OML Declination 6-25-18 (Rowley Planning Commission).
4

===PAGE 5===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Joseph  Hurley
Canton Zoning Board of Appeals
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5
