===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.tnass.gov/ago 
December 11, 2017 
OML 2017-188 
Mark Terry, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
1800 West Park Drive 
Suite 400 
Westborough, MA 01581 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
This office received a complaint from Jonathan Dame of the Metrowest Daily News on 
October 4, alleging that the Lincoln-Sudbury Regional School Committee (the "Committee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to provide Mr. Dame with copies of all written evaluations of the school 
superintendent submitted by individual Committee members. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Committee on August 4; and the Committee responded by letter dated August 11. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response to 
the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On July 3, Mr. Dame requested copies of all written 
evaluations of School District Superintendent Bella Wong submitted by individual committee 
members to the Committee chair for the purposes of compiling the superintendent's annual 
performance evaluation. Prior to a July 6 Committee meeting, individual Committee members 
had developed evaluations of Superintendent Bella Wong and sent them to the Committee chair 
to compile into a composite evaluation. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
At its July 6 meeting, the Committee reviewed the composite evaluation of the 
superintendent. While the Committee reviewed the composite evaluation during the meeting, it 
did not review the individual evaluations created by each Committee member that provided the 
content for the composite evaluation. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all documents used at an open meeting be public 
records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions under 
the Public Records Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). However, materials used in a performance 
evaluation of an individual bearing on his professional competence, provided they were not 
created by the members of the body for the purposes of the evaluation, are exempt from 
disclosure as personnel records. Id. 
Here, the document used during the Committee's open meeting on July 6 consisted of a 
performance evaluation of an individual bearing on her professional competence. Because the 
document was created by the members of the body for the purposes of evaluation, the document 
is a public record in its entirety. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). However, because the individual 
evaluations created by Committee members were not documents used by the Committee at the 
July 6 meeting, they are not required by the Open Meeting Law to be disclosed upon request. 
Mr. Dame notes in his complaint that the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide 
states that, "[djocuments created by members of the public body for the purpose of performing 
an evaluation are subject to disclosure. This applies to both individual evaluations and evaluation 
compilations, provided the documents were created by members of the public body for the 
purpose of the evaluation." Both individual and composite evaluations would be subject to 
disclosure under the Open Meeting Law only when such records are used by a public body 
during an open meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e). Here, because the individual evaluations 
were not used during an open meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not require their disclosure. 
They do, however, remain subject to the requirements of the Public Records Law. The 
complainant may contact the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's 
Office to appeal a denial of access to those records.2 
2 We note that the distribution of performance evaluations prior to a meeting and their status as public records are 
issues under consideration by the Supreme Judicial Court in Boelter v. Wavland Board of Selectmen. No. SJC-
12353, argued December 4, 2017. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Lincoln-Sudbury Regional School Committee 
Jonathan Dame 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 