===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
August 14, 2017 
OML 2017-126 
Deborah 1. Ecker 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Ecker: 
This office received a complaint from Thomas Robinson, dated May 19, alleging that the 
Town of Hubbardston Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 13, and the Board 
responded by letter dated March 30. In his complaint, Mr. Robinson alleges that the Board (i) 
failed to notify him that he would be discussed during the Board's February 14 meeting; (ii) 
discussed a topic that was not listed on the final notice posted at least 48 hours before its 
February 14 meeting; and (iii) deliberated outside of a noticed meeting,2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed notices and 
minutes of a Board meeting held on February 14, and a statement read by the Board chair at a 
Board of Selectmen meeting on February 27. We reviewed a report containing allegations 
against Mr. Robinson sent by Christine Bolduc to the town secretary and town administrator on 
February 3. Finally, we corresponded with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on June 22, 
July 19 and July 27, and by e-mail on July 7 and July 31. 
We find the facts as follows. At all times relevant to this complaint, Ms. Bolduc was 
employed as the Board's clerk. On February 3, she sent an e-mail to the Hubbardston town 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the Board requested an investigation into the "purpose of the resident's actions" 
and who authorized them. Because this allegation, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, we decline to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners). 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
secretary and town administrator alleging that Mr. Robinson treated her improperly and gained 
unauthorized access to Board files during an interaction on January 31. 
The Board held a meeting on February 14. During this meeting, the Board reserved time 
for "correspondence / open discussion" even though this topic was not listed in the meeting 
notice. During the open discussion portion of the meeting, Board member Hayden Duggan 
asked Ms. Bolduc a general question about her job satisfaction. Ms. Bolduc was relatively new 
to her position as Board of Health clerk at the time, and the Board stated to our office that the 
question was not intended to elicit any particular response. Ms. Bolduc answered the inquiry 
initially by stating things were going well. However, she proceeded to inform the Board about 
the interaction she had with Mr. Robinson on January 31. Following Ms. Bolduc's statement, 
the Board voted to "request a formal investigation into these matters by the Board of Selectmen 
or whomever it appoints, including - but not limited to - what the purpose of resident's actions 
were, who authorized them, and what documents were either viewed or obtained." 
On February 24, the Board chair e-mailed the town administrator, writing, "The Board of 
Health is asking for an investigation regarding all circumstances surrounding the events on 
January 31, 2017." The town administrator responded to the Board chair on February 27 with an 
e-mail containing a revision of the Board chair's request. The town administrator's e-mail 
stated, "The Board of Health is asking the Board of Selectmen to authorize an appropriate review 
and/or investigation regarding all circumstances surrounding the events on January 31, 2017, 
during which an individual or individuals may have had unauthorized access to Board of Health 
files. The Board of Health feels that there is the potential that our files were compromised and 
that an investigation is needed to determine whether any violation of law, policy or misconduct 
occurred." At the Board of Selectmen meeting on February 27, the Board Chair read a statement 
that was identical to the town administrator's e-mail, and the Board of Selectmen voted to 
authorize the investigation. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board was not Obligated to Notify Mr. Robinson of the February 14 Meeting 
Because the Meeting was Held Entirely in Open Session. 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to enter an executive session for any of ten 
enumerated purposes, including to "discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or 
mental health ... of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). Before entering into executive session, a public body must first convene 
in an open session, state the purpose for the executive session, vote to go into executive session, 
record this vote by roll call, and enter it into the minutes. See G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(b); OML 2017-
77. When a public body convenes in executive session under Purpose 1, the individual who is 
the subject of discussion has the right to "be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 
hours prior to the proposed executive session." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The Open Meeting Law 
2 
===PAGE 3===
does not require a public body to provide notice to individuals it may discuss during open 
session. See QML 2017-75. OML 2017-18; OML2013-41.3 
The complaint alleges that, because the Board discussed Ms. Bolduc's allegations against 
Mr. Robinson, the conversation fell within Purpose 1, and the Board should have notified Mr. 
Robinson of the meeting in writing. However, an individual has a right to individualized notice 
only when the individual is the subject of an executive session convened under Purpose 1. The 
Board did not convene in executive session during the February 14 meeting. Therefore, because 
the entirety of the Board's meeting was conducted in open session, and the Board was not 
required to provide advanced written notice of its meeting to Mr. Robinson. See OML 2017-75. 
Furthermore, even if a portion of the Board's meeting may have been appropriate for executive 
session under Purpose 1, public bodies have "sole discretion to determine what matters will be 
heard in executive session." See OML 2015-74; OML 2013-2; OML 2011-53. 
II. The Board did not Anticipate Discussion of Ms. Bolduc's Complaint, and Therefore 
was not Required to Post Notice of the Topic at Least 48 Hours Before its February 
14 Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(a). The notice must include a "listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Further, the list 
of topics must have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). Public bodies may discuss a topic not listed on 
a meeting notice if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, 
however, we encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of such topics until proper notice 
can be given to the public. See OML 2017-51; 2013-87; OML 2013-13. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
include the topic of Ms. Bolduc's complaint and the vote to request an investigation on the 
meeting agenda. The Board states that during open discussion, a Board member asked Ms. 
Bolduc about her job satisfaction, and Ms. Bolduc proceeded to share her allegations against Mr. 
Robinson. The Board also states that this discussion was not anticipated by any member of the 
Board. We have not been presented with evidence that the Board's chair anticipated discussion 
of Ms. Bolduc's complaint 48 hours before the meeting. Absent sufficient evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body's account of the facts. See OML 2016-141. Therefore, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing Ms. Bolduc's allegations and 
voting to request an investigation. 
III. The Board did not Deliberate Outside of a Noticed Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires all meetings of public bodies to be open to members of 
the public, unless a public body enters into executive session. G.L. c. 30, § 20(a). The Open 
Meeting Law defines "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30, § 18. It defines "deliberation" as, "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. The definition of 
"deliberation" excludes "the distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of 
reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member 
is expressed." Id. "Quorum" is defined as a simple majority of public body members. Id. 
During the Board of Selectmen's February 27 meeting, the Board chair read a statement 
requesting an investigation. That statement was different from the language approved during the 
Board's February 14 meeting. The complaint alleges that the discrepancy between the statement 
and the approved language indicates deliberation by the Board outside of a noticed meeting. 
However, the Board chair's statement to the Board of Selectmen was generated by an e-mail 
exchange between the Board chair and the town administrator, during which the town 
administrator reviewed and revised the language of the statement. This e-mail exchange was 
between the chair and the town administrator only, and no other Board members were included. 
Because the town administrator did not facilitate communication between or among a quorum of 
the public body, the changes to the statement did not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2017-86; G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
'7 
Kevin W. Manganare 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tom Robinson 
Hubbardston Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 