===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2016 
OML 2016-15 
Carolyn Smart, Chair 
Townsend Board of Selectmen 
272 Main Street 
Townsend, MA 01469 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Smart: 
This office received a complaint from Sue Lisio, dated November 18, 2015, alleging that 
the Townsend Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 26, 2015, and the Board 
responded by letter dated November 12, 2015. In her complaint, Ms. Lisio alleges that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) posting an inaccurate and insufficiently specific meeting 
notice; (ii) failing to disclose certain charges to be discussed during an executive session; and 
(iii) holding a discussion with Town Counsel outside of a properly noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Board meeting held on October 20, 2015. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body, but only two 
seats are currently filled. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on October 20, 2015, 
The notice listed, in part, the following: "Executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, s. 21(a)(1) 
to discuss complaints or charges against public officials or individuals." No further information 
was given about this anticipated executive session discussion. The Board intended to discuss a 
probationary employee about whom the Board claimed to have received several complaints or 
comments during the employee's probationary period. Prior to the meeting, the Board sent the 
employee a letter informing her that they intended to discuss these complaints. 
The Board held the October 20, 2015 meeting as planned. When the meeting turned to 
the anticipated executive session, the employee requested that the discussion take place in open 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
session and the Board complied. Board member Gordon Clark stated that the Board intended to 
extend the employee's probationary period for another 90 days. He stated that this was due to "a 
lot of ongoing issues." During the discussion that followed, the employee objected to the 
extension of her probationary period. The employee stated that she had asked for copies of the 
complaints at issue, but had not been provided with them. Chair Smart stated that she had 
provided the employee with the complaints. The employee further stated that she "takes offense 
to the probation and does not accept it." Ultimately, the two Board members voted to extend the 
employee's probationary period. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Disclose 
Information, Either on the Meeting Notice or During Open Session. Concerning 
Charges Against an Individual that were Originally to be Discussed in Executive 
Session. 
The Open Meeting Law states that a public body may enter executive session for any of 
ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is 
Purpose 1, which allows a public body to enter executive session to "discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L, c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). The 
individual to be discussed in such executive session must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, and be afforded the right to be 
present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own 
behalf, the right to have an attorney present for the purpose of advising but not participating in 
the meeting, and the right to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session 
by audio-recording or transcription, at the individual's expense. Id. The individual to be 
discussed during a Purpose 1 executive session has the right to request that the discussion take 
place in open session, and the public body cannot deny this request. Id. 
The complaint alleges that a topic listed on the October 20 meeting notice—"Executive 
session pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, s. 21(a)(1) to discuss complaints or charges against public 
officials or individuals"—violated the Open Meeting Law because no complaints or charges had 
been filed against the employee. We make no finding about the existence of such complaints. 
Instead, we find that the level of detail was sufficient for the anticipated executive session, 
though the discussion ultimately occurred in open session. 
Public bodies are not required to state the name of the individual to be discussed during a 
Purpose 1 executive session where the disclosure of that information would undermine the 
purpose for the executive session. See OML 2013-141. Here, because the Board reasonably 
expected to discuss this matter in executive session, we find that the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by omitting further information about the individual to be discussed. See 
OML 2013-20; OML 2011-32. While the discussion was ultimately held in open session, the 
Board did not anticipate doing so at the time the notice was posted, thus it was not required to list 
the name of the individual to be discussed or state the nature of the complaints or charges. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
disclose certain requested information regarding the charges against the employee during the 
open session discussion. The Open Meeting Law does not require the Board to provide the 
employee with specific information regarding the charges against her, only that she be given 
written notice of the meeting if charges will be discussed in executive session. See G.L. c. 3 OA, 
§ 21(a)(1); OML 2015-73 (the Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any 
topic). The Board complied with the law's requirements in this regard. When the employee 
requested that the discussion be held in open session, no executive session was convened. The 
Board discussed the matter of the employee's probationary period in open session. We therefore 
find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this respect. See OML 2014-124. 
II. We Find Insufficient Evidence to Demonstrate that a Quorum of the Board Met 
with Town Counsel Outside of a Properly Posted Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is 
defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board held a discussion with Town Counsel outside 
of a properly noticed meeting. In support of this allegation, the complaint states that Chair Smart 
said multiple times during the October 20, 2015 meeting, "[w]e have checked with Town 
Counsel and we are able to extend the probation." According to the complaint, the use of the 
plural establishes that improper deliberation took place. We note that this statement is not 
reflected in the meeting minutes, and the Board denies that any outside deliberation took place. 
Rather, the Board's response states that Chair Smart alone conferred with Town Counsel and the 
Town Administrator. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board's account 
of the facts. See OML 2015-8. We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in this regard. Id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sue Lisio 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 