===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 17, 2015 
OML 2015-23 
Mr. Stephen MeGovem 
Waltham Girls Softball, Inc. 
64 Trapelo Road 
Waltham, MA 02453 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. MeGovem: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Kevin David Ferguson, dated December 16, 
2014, alleging that Waltham Girls Softball, Inc. ("WGS") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with WGS on October 20, 2014. In his 
complaint, Mr. Ferguson alleges that WGS held an unnoticed meeting on October 20, 2014 
during which it conducted an "illegal election." 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity against which the complaint is filed is a "public body" subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. The Open Meeting Law defines "public body," in relevant part, as "a multiple-member 
board, commission, committee or subcommittee within ... any county, district, city, region or 
town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public 
purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Thus, to be a public body for the purposes of the Law, the entity 
must be (i) "within" government and not excluded from the definition of "public body"; (ii) a 
body empowered to act collectively; and (iii) charged to serve a public purpose. See OML 2010-
1.1 When an entity is not clearly placed within government by law, it may still be "within" 
government if the government played a significant role in creating or structuring the group, the 
government has control over the group, and the group primarily performs an essentially 
government function. Id. 
Following our review, we find that WGS is not a public body subject to the requirements 
of the Open Meeting Law. The government played no role in its creation; rather, it is a private 
association that was established by local parents in Waltham. The local authorities have no 
direct supervision over its operations. Further, the operation of a softball league is not the type 
of essentially governmental function that falls within the scope of the Open Meeting Law. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Finally, we note that WGS is a registered not-for-profit corporation - a factor that weighs against 
a finding that it is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. We recognize that, during a 
December 10, 2014 meeting of the Waltham Recreation Board (the "Board"), Board member 
Jerry Walker stated to Mr. McGovem that WGS is a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law. This misunderstanding was apparently based on the fact that WGS receives some funding 
from the Board. The receipt of public funds alone, however, is an insufficient basis upon which 
to find WGS subject to the Open Meeting Law's requirements. 
For the reasons discussed above, we find that WGS is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, thus it could not have violated the Law's requirements. See OML 2011-42. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 
if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
— 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. Kevin David Ferguson 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 We spoke with Board Chair Dick Scanlon by phone on January 26, 2015. He stated that it is the position of the 
Board that WGS is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
2 