===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 60 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jared M. Collins, Esq. 
KP Law 
JCollins@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Collins: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kevin Wood on November 9, 2023,
1 alleging that 
the Georgetown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was filed with the Commission on or about October 20, 
2023, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated January 26.
2 The 
complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law during its October 19 
meeting when it discussed and voted to hire a conservation agent without that topic having been 
included on the notice for the meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed hiring Michèle Grenier for the position of conservation agent during its 
October 19 meeting without that topic having been included on the meeting notice. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Commission’s response, 
and the request for further review. We also reviewed minutes from the September 28 interview 
of Michèle Grenier, and the notices for and video recordings of the Commission’s meetings held 
on October 19 and November 7.
3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023 unless otherwise stated. 
2 We remind the Commission of its obligation to comply with the requirement  to review and respond to Open 
Meeting Law complaints within 14 business days. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 A video recording of the Commission’s October 19 meeting can be found at 
http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7693. A video recording of the Commission’s November 7 meeting can be 
found at http://gctv.georgetownma.gov/show/7710. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On September 28 Commission members, including 
Carl Shreder who at the time was chair of the Commission, interviewed Michèle Grenier for the 
position of conservation agent. During the interview, Mr. Shreder represented to Ms. Grenier that 
she would likely hear back regarding the position in a week or two.  
 
The Commission’s next meeting following the September 28 interview was held on 
October 19. The notice for the October 19 meeting did not include a topic related to hiring a 
conservation agent. At the end of the October 19 meeting, Mr. Shreder asked if there was any 
other business for the Commission and then remembered that he wanted to inform the full 
Commission that he and two other members had interviewed a candidate for the conservation 
agent position and that they wanted to bring the agent before the Commission for a vote. 
Commission member Rebecca Chane
4 stated that she trusted the opinions of the members who 
interviewed the candidate. Mr. Shreder then provided the Commission with the candidate’s 
qualifications and noted his opinion that the candidate was highly qualified for the position. Ms. 
Chane again noted that she trusted the opinions of the members who interviewed the candidate 
and so gave her approval and did not have any questions for the candidate. After some more 
discussion, the Commission voted to give the three members who had interviewed the candidate 
the authority to act on behalf of the Commission to negotiate with and hire the candidate. 
Although the candidate was never identified during the discussion, we understand the candidate 
to be Ms. Grenier. 
 
 The Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on November 7. The sole 
substantive topic included on the notice read as follows, “Interview and Commission Vote to 
Hire New Agent (Applicant Candidate).”
5 During the November 7 meeting, the Commission 
interviewed Ms. Grenier for the position of conservation agent. During the interview, Ms. 
Grenier presented her qualifications and background to the Commission. Commission members 
asked Ms. Grenier questions and described various duties that the job would entail. The 
interview lasted for approximately 30 minutes, with the Commission voting at the end to appoint 
Ms. Grenier as the new conservation agent.6 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept 
 in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include, among other things, 
a list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the meeting notice, 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-
 
4 Ms. Chane currently serves as chair of the Commission. 
5 We note that the Division has consistently stated that the names of interviewees and applicants for employment or 
appointment which are known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be included  on the meeting notice. See OML 
2020-80; OML 2019-24; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163. We remind the Commission that in the future it should 
identify the specific individual to be discussed or interviewed. 
6 We note that no minutes are posted to the Town’s website for the November 7 meeting, but that minutes posted 
online for the Commission’s November 16 meeting record the interview and vote t hat took place during the 
November 7 meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
152; OML 2020-87; OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190.7 A public body may discuss topics that 
were not included on the meeting notice if those topics truly were not reasonably anticipated 48 
hours in advance of the meeting; however, the Attorney General strongly recommends that 
public bodies table discussion of topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order 
to include such topics on a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 
2018-119. 
 
The
 complaint alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
hiring Ms. Grenier during its October 19 meeting without that topic having been included on the 
meeting notice. The Commission asserts that this topic was unanticipated and explains that 
“[d]uring the day of October 19, 2023, the then-Chair of the Commission met and interviewed an 
interested candidate for the Conservation Agent position. Two other members of the 
Commission separately interviewed this candidate as well.” The Committee further explains that 
due to a prolonged vacancy in the conservation agent position there was an urgent need to fill the 
position and so “the then-Chair provided the Commission with [an update regarding the 
candidate] at the earliest possible opportunity, which happened to be the meeting scheduled the 
same day that the candidate was identified as suitable for the Commission’s needs.”  
 
Based on the evidence before us, we do not credit the Commission’s account of events. 
Ms. Gren
ier was interviewed by three Commission members together on September 28 and at 
that time Mr. Shreder represented to Ms. Grenier that she would likely hear back regarding the 
position in a week or two. Considering the September 28 interview and representation made to 
Ms. Grenier during the interview, as well as the Commission’s urgent need for a new 
conservation agent and the fact that the October 19 meeting was the next meeting following the 
interview, we find that discussion of Ms. Grenier’s candidacy for conservation agent was a 
“reasonably” anticipated topic for the Commission’s October 19 meeting and should have been 
included on the meeting notice. See OML 2023-148; OML 2022-203; OML 2014-47. Therefore, 
we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing Ms. Grenier’s 
candidacy during the October 19 meeting where that topic was not included on the meeting 
notice.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing the candidacy of Ms. Grenier during its October 19 meeting despite that topic 
not being included on the meeting notice. We order the Commission’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future findings of a similar violation 
may be considered an intent to violate the law. Because the Commission again discussed hiring 
Ms. Grenier during its November 7 meeting, we do not order any further remedial action.  
 
 
 
 
 
7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rebecca Chane, Chair, Georgetown Conservation Commission  
(via email: rchane@georgetownma.gov) 
Kerri McManus, Town Clerk (via email: kmcmanus@georgetownma.gov)  
Kevin Wood (via email: ) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
