===PAGE 1===
Special Responsibilities of the Public Body Chair 
 
Issued by the Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General’s Division of Open Government  
November 2024 
 
Several provisions of the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Regulations impose 
responsibilities or authority specifically on the chair of a public body.  The following is a non-
exclusive list: 
 
Notice: A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. The notice must include the date, time, and place of the 
meeting, as well as a list of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
General Laws chapter 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  If the Chair delegates the task of 
drafting the meeting notice to another individual, the notice must include all topics that the 
Chair as well as the topics that the person drafting the notice reasonably anticipate will be 
discussed. See OML 2023-148; OML 2013-147. 
 
Remote Participation: At the start of a meeting that includes any members of the public body 
participating remotely—including at a meeting that is held entirely remotely—the chair or the 
person chairing the meeting shall announce the name of any member(s) participating 
remotely. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d); 940 CMR 29.10.   
 
Announcement of Meeting Recording: At the beginning of the meeting, the chair shall inform 
other attendees of any video or audio recordings of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f) 
 
Public Participation: Although all meetings, except for executive sessions, must be open to the 
public, the chair has discretion whether to allow for public comment/public participation, and 
if public comment will be allowed, to set procedures or limitations on public comment. 
Furthermore, if a person disrupts a meeting after a warning from the chair, the chair may order 
the person to leave the meeting and may authorize the person’s removal. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g). 
 
Executive Session: The chair has several responsibilities with regard to executive sessions. 
First, in open session prior to convening in executive session, the chair shall state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)3. If the public body 
will be meeting in executive session pursuant to Purposes 3, 6, or 8, the chair must specifically 
declare that having the discussion in open session will have a detrimental effect on the 
public body’s bargaining or litigation position (Purpose 3), negotiating position (Purpose 6), or 
ability to obtain qualified applicants (Purpose 8). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)3., 6., and 8. Finally, the 
chair must publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)4. 
 
Open Meeting Law Complaints: Open Meeting Law complaints shall be filed with the chair of 
the public body. 940 CMR 29.05(3). Within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint, the 
chair shall disseminate the complaint to the members of the public body and the public body 
shall meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send 
to the complainant, with a copy to the Attorney General, a response and a description of any 
===PAGE 2===
remedial actions taken.  940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). 
 
** In general, where the Law requires a chair to take certain action or to make particular 
announcements, the Division of Open Government has stated that the chair may delegate 
these responsibilities to another individual, such as legal counsel or another member of the 
public body.  
 
Note that this checklist is intended as an educational guide, and does not constitute proof of 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  Checklists are updated periodically, so please confirm 
that you are using the most current version.  For questions, please contact the Attorney 
General’s Division of Open Government at 617-963-2540 or via email at 
openmeeting@mass.gov.  
For more information on the Open Meeting Law, please visit www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
 