===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 28, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 238 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Rian Holmquest, Esq. 
Harrington Heep  
rholmquest@miyares-harrington.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Holmquest: 
 
This office received two complaints from Robert May on July 27, 2023,
1 alleging that the 
Templeton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about June 1, and you responded on 
behalf of the Board by letters dated June 15. We understand the first complaint to allege that the 
minutes of the Board’s April 26 meeting are insufficient with respect to the recording of various 
votes and because they do not include a list of the documents used during the meeting.
2 We 
understand the second complaint to allege that 1) the minutes of the Board’s May 10 meeting are 
insufficient where they do not include a list of documents used, and 2) the notice for the May 10 
meeting included an insufficiently specific topic.3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 To the extent the first complaint raises allegations regarding the sufficiency of the notice for the Board’s April 26 
meeting, we decline to review these allegations. The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed with the 
public body within 30 days of the alleged violation. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). If the alleged violation 
could not have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must  be filed with the public body within 30 
days of the date on which the alleged violation could reasonably have been discovered. 940 CMR 29.05(4). Alleged 
violations that take place during an open session meeting can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur. See 
OML 2012-52. Because the April 26 meeting occurred in open session, any allegation about the sufficiency of the 
notice for that meeting should have been filed on or before May 26. 
3 The complaints also reference that the meeting notices did not include “documentation.” To the extent the 
complaints allege that documents to be used during the meetings were not posted prior to the meetings, t he Open 
Meeting Law does not require that a public body attach supporting documents to a meeting notice nor that it publicly 
post a packet that contains such documents. See OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s 
responses, the request for further review, the notice for the Board’s May 10 meeting, and original 
and amended minutes for the Board’s April 26 and May 10 meetings. 
 
Except in an emergency, a public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 
hours in a
dvance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2015- 35; OML 2019-134.4 A public body need not include each and every detail about a 
topic on the notice in order to comply with the law’s specificity requirement, but the topic must 
include sufficient specificity so that the public can make an informed decision about whether to 
attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a topic of interest. See OML 
2023-86; OML 2019-134; OML 2019-95. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all
 meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). It is not sufficient to merely reference in the body 
of the minutes documents used at the meeting; the minutes must include a list of the documents 
used. See OML 2022-189. The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document 
to be used at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, 
verbally identified, and its contents discussed by the members of the public body a document has 
been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s April 26 meeting, which were 
approved at the Board’s May 24 meeting, were insufficient where they inaccurately recorded 
several votes and did not list all documents used at the meeting. The Board acknowledges that 
the minutes of the April 26 meeting were inaccurate and insufficient in the ways alleged. In 
response to the complaint, the Board amended the minutes of its April 26 meeting to correct the 
recording of the votes and to list additional documents used at the meeting. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the minutes of the Board’s May 10 meeting failed to 
list documents used during the meeting, specifically a change order document and a hygienist’s 
report regarding the removal of asbestos. The complaint also alleges that the notice topic “10 
Pleasant Street Change Order” was insufficiently specific. The Board acknowledges that the 
minutes of its May 10 meeting did not specifically list a change order document that was used at 
the meeting. The Board has amended the minutes of the May 10 meeting to list this document. 
With respect to the hygienist’s report regarding the removal of asbestos from 10 Pleasant Street, 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the Board explains that there was no document physically present at the meeting, but rather 
information related to a hygienist’s inspection of 10 Pleasant Street for asbestos was shared with 
the Board verbally. As such, the Board was not required to list this report in the minutes.  
 
Finally, the Board asserts that the notice topic “10  Pleasant Street Change Order” was 
sufficiently specific to inform the public of the nature of the anticipated discussion. We disagree. 
Although this topic may have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting 
attendees, notice topics must be sufficiently specific to reasonably inform members of the public 
unfamiliar with the ongoing matters before the Board of the anticipated nature of the discussions 
to be held. See OML 2020-137; OML 2013-55. During the May 10 meeting, the Board discussed 
new developments with a demolition project at 10 Pleasant Street and voted to approve a change 
order to the project to cover the cost of removing the asbestos, including a bill from the 
hygienist. We find that the topic “10 Pleasant Street Change Order” was insufficient to inform 
the public that the Board would discuss removal of asbestos from the demolition project at the 
listed property. See OML 2023-79. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. 
Because the Board has already amended the meeting minutes at issue, we do not order additional 
remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Michael Currie, Chair, Templeton Select Board (via email: mcurrie@templetonma.gov)  
Adam Lamontagne, Town Administrator (via email: alamontagne@templetonma.gov) 
Carol Harris, Town Clerk (via email: charris@templetonma.gov) 
Robert May (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
