===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 24, 2017 
OML 2017-65 
Neil J. Harrington, Town Manager 
Town of Salisbury 
5 Beach Road 
Salisbury, MA 01952 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Harrington: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins, dated December 6, 2016, alleging 
that the Salisbury Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 2, 2016, and the 
Board responded by letter dated November 23, 2016. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to indicate the date and time that a 
meeting notice was posted, and (ii) voting to execute employment contracts in executive 
session.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes of a 
Board meeting held on October 17, 2016, along with a video recording of this meeting.2 Finally, 
we spoke with the Salisbury Town Manager by telephone on April 1 land 13, 2017.3 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Salisbury ("the Town") posts official meeting 
notices to its municipal bulletin board located in its Town Hall. The Town has not adopted its 
municipal website as its official posting location, as permitted by the Attorney General's 
1 In the request for further review, the complainant alleges that the Board created inaccurate meeting minutes. 
Because this allegation was not contained in the original complaint filed with the Board, we decline to investigate it 
now. See 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2015-179. Open Meeting Law determination letters may be found at the 
Attorney General's website: www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 The video recording is available at the Salisbury Community Television website: 
http://l 73.9.125.70/Cablecast/public-site/index.html#/show/4837?channel=l. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Regulations, 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). However duplicate notices are occasionally posted to the 
Town's website as a courtesy. 
The Board planned to hold a meeting at 7:00 P.M. on Monday, October 17, 2016. On 
Thursday, October 13, 2016, an assistant clerk posted notice of this meeting to the Town's 
website. The website did not indicate the date or time of the posting. On this same date, the 
town clerk posted notice on the bulletin board, indicating the date of posting, as well as the time, 
11 ;30 A.M. The notice listed, among other topics, two anticipated executive session discussion 
topics relevant to this complaint: "Vote to approve contract for Assistant Town Manager," and 
"Vote to approve contract for Confidential Administrative Assistant to the Police Chief." 
The Board convened the October 17, 2016 meeting as planned. Prior to entering 
executive session, the chair stated the purpose for the executive session, repeating the purposes 
as they had been listed on the meeting notice. Following the executive session, the Board 
reconvened in open session. The Board then voted to execute several contracts, however the 
Board voted to table the contracts for the Assistant Town Manager and the Administrative 
Assistant until a later meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Notice Posted to the Bulletin Board Indicated the Date and Time of Posting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The date 
and time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith. 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). For local public bodies, notice must be posted "in a manner conspicuously 
visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk's office is 
located." 940 CMR 29.03(2)(a). However, a public body may adopt an alternative notice 
posting location, such as a municipal website. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board posted a notice for the October 17, 2016 
meeting that did not indicate the date and time of posting. Indeed, the initial notice posted to the 
municipal website did not include an indication of the date and time of posting. However, the 
notice that was posted in the Town's legal notice posting location—that is, the bulletin board— 
included this information. See OML 2014-21 (where a local public body does not adopt an 
alternative notice posting location, the official notice posting remains the default of posting in or 
on a municipal building). Because the Board complied with its obligation to post notice and 
indicate the date and time of posting, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
II. The Board Did Not Vote to Execute the Contracts at Issue in Executive Session. 
A public body may convene in executive session for any of ten permissible reasons. G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 21(a). One permissible reason is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). Purpose 2, 
however, does not allow a public body to execute a final agreement behind closed doors; any 
vote to execute an agreed-upon contract must take place in open session. See OML 2015-184. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Board voted to execute the Assistant Town Manager and 
the Administrative Assistant contracts in executive session. As evidence, the complaint points to 
the meeting notice, which suggested that the Board would vote to execute these agreements 
during the October 17, 2016 executive session. Our review of the minutes demonstrates that, 
following the October 17, 2016 executive session, the Board voted to delay further discussion of 
these two contracts. We therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Salisbury Board of Selectmen 
Patrick Higgins 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaft^ "" 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 