===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 29, 2015 
OML 2015-17 
Radha Gargeya, Chair 
Lincoln-Sudbury Regional School District School Committee 
390 Lincoln Road 
Sudbury, MA 01776 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Gargeya: 
This office received three related complaints from Ms. Jennifer Stahr, all dated December 
11, 2014, alleging that the Lincoln-Sudbury Regional School District School Committee (the 
"Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. All three complaints 
were filed with the Committee on November 19, 2014, and the Committee responded to all three 
complaints by e-mail on November 20, 2014. In her complaints, Ms. Stahr alleges that the 
Committee improperly withheld meeting minutes and other documents requested by her. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to make open session meeting minutes available within the time frame required by law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Committee's response; and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also interviewed Chair Gargeya by 
phone on December 30, 2014, and we interviewed Director of Student Services Aida Ramos by 
We find the facts as follows. On November 7, 2014, Ms. Stahr sent three e-mails to the 
Committee. The first e-mail requested (i) all meeting agendas and minutes, other than those 
already posted on the Committee's website, from 2011 to present; as well as (ii) all meeting 
agendas and minutes of the Committee's Policy Subcommittee from 2010 to present. All of the 
meetings encompassed by this request occurred in open session. Ms. Stahr's second e-mail 
requested records regarding school physicians. Her third e-mail requested records regarding 
school policies concerning head injuries and concussions. 
1 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
phone on January 6, 2015. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
When she did not receive any response to these three e-mails, Ms. Stahr filed the three 
Open Meeting Law complaints on November 19, 2014. On November 20, 2014, Chair Gargeya 
sent an e-mail to Ms. Stahr stating that the Committee was working to respond to the three 
requests. On November 25, 2014, the School District's Director of Student Services, Ms. Aida 
Ramos, sent an e-mail stating that Ms. Stahr would either need to pay $160-200 to receive hard 
copies of the requested documents or she could visit the Committee's office to inspect them. 
(This charge represented twenty cents per page for approximately 800-1,000 pages.) Ms. Stahr 
requested that the documents be scanned and posted on a website; this request was denied. Ms. 
Stahr was offered a two-hour window on one of two dates to come to the Committee's office to 
review the documents. Ms. Stahr was not available on either date. When no agreement could be 
reached on how to get the minutes and other documents into her custody, Ms. Stahr filed her 
requests for further review of the three Open Meeting Law complaints with our office. On 
January 6, 2015, after Ms. Stahr had filed her request for further review with our office, Ms. 
Ramos sent a letter to Ms. Stahr stating, in part, "Please contact my office... to schedule a time 
and date for your document review." Ms. Ramos stated to our office that approximately thirty 
percent of the materials collected in response to the complainant's request are meeting minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Here, Ms. Stahr sent her request on November 7, 2014. Her 
request concerned only open session meeting minutes. To be in compliance, therefore, the 
Committee should have made the minutes available to her no later than November 17, 2014. The 
Committee failed to respond by this date. We recognize that the request concerned a large 
number of records. Nonetheless, the Committee had an obligation to meet the Open Meeting 
Law's requirements. See OML 2013-166. Its failure to do so violated the Open Meeting Law. 
In the response to the complaint and the subsequent letter, however, the Committee appears to be 
making a good faith effort to find a time when Ms. Stahr may review them and the other 
materials in question. We find that this was appropriate remedial action. 
With respect to the other documents requested, we find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law states that the minutes of any open 
session, the notes, recordings or other materials used in the preparation of such minutes and all 
documents and exhibits used at the session, shall be public records in their entirety. See G.L. c. 
BOA, § 22(e). However, requests for all other documents are governed by the Public Records 
Law. See G.L. c. 66, § 10. The Open Meeting Law does not govern a public body's obligation 
to respond to public records requests. See OML 2014-45. If Ms. Stahr wishes to appeal the 
denial of requests for documents other than meeting minutes, or wishes to appeal the estimated 
cost of copying the meeting minutes, she may do so by contacting the Supervisor of Records 
within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Public Records Division. See 950 CMR 32.02, 
32.06. 
As a final matter, we remind the Committee of certain requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law governing the complaint process. The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business 
days after receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General's Office a 
copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5); G.L. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
c. 30A, § 23(b). The public body shall simultaneously notify the complainant that it has sent 
such materials to the Attorney General's Office and shall provide the complainant with a copy of 
the description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the Committee's sole 
response to Ms. Stahr's complaints consisted of an e-mail to Ms. Stahr. The Committee should 
have sent copies of the complaints, along with its response, to our office. Furthermore, the 
Committee failed to convene a meeting in order to review the complaint before sending a 
response. See OML 2012-90; OML 2011-6. We remind the Committee of its obligations under 
the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to make open session meeting minutes available within the time frame required by 
law. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ms. Jennifer Stahr 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 