===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
\vww.mass.gov/ago 
October 11, 2016 
OML 2016- 137 
Michele E. Randazzo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Randazzo: 
This office received a complaint from Erin Sullivan, dated July 25, alleging that the 
Sandwich Historic District Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 5, and, after 
an extension of time was granted, the Committee responded by letter dated May 26. In her 
complaint, Ms. Sullivan alleges that the Committee posted an insufficiently detailed meeting 
notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, 
and the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed an April 4 decision 
issued by the Old King's Highway Regional Historic District Commission. Finally, we reviewed 
the notice of a Committee meeting held on April 27. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee held meetings on February 10 and 24. 
During these meetings, the Committee considered an application for a Certificate of 
Appropriateness concerning the Heritage Plantation of Sandwich. The notices of the February 
10 and 24 meetings described the discussion of this project as follows: 
16-19 Heritase Plantation of Sandwich, Inc. 
Relocation of boulder embankment walls, installation of lighting and concrete stairs 
associated with parking and walkway improvements at 67 Grove Street, located at Map 
37, Lot 006. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On February 25, the Committee filed a decision granting the Certificate of 
Appropriateness with the Sandwich Town Clerk. On April 4, the Old King's Highway Regional 
Historic District Commission (the "RHDC"), acting on an appeal of the Committee's February 
decision, issued a written decision remanding the matter to the Commission for further 
consideration of certain issues. Among these were "the drainage, materials, size and stripping 
[sic] of the proposed parking lot[.]" The RHDC decision further stated, "The application should 
be remanded to the [Committee] for additional review and consideration of the parking lot and 
its paving." 
On April 22, the Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 27. The 
notice stated that the Committee would consider several applications for Certificates of 
Appropriateness. One application was listed as follows: 
16-76 Heritage Plantation of Sandwich. Inc. (REMAND) 
Relocation of stone wall and installation of lighting and concrete staircase in connection 
with parking and entrance improvement project at 67 Grove Street, located at Map 37, 
Lot 006. 
The Committee convened its April 27 meeting as planned. During the discussion of the 
Heritage Plantation project, the Committee considered the parking lot paving. The complainant, 
who was present, spoke against the project. Ultimately, the Committee voted 2-1 to approve the 
project as presented. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of each meeting "at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays" and that every 
notice include "the date, time and place of such meeting and listings of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2012-71; OML 
2011-44.2 
The complaint alleges that this statement on the notice is deficient for two principle 
reasons—it does not indicate that the project would involve landscaping paving, and it does not 
indicate that work will also take place at a property located at 0 Pocasset Road in Sandwich. On 
June 20, our office issued a determination letter resolving a complaint concerning similar 
language on the Committee's February 10 and 24 meeting notices. See OML 2016-78. In that 
determination letter, we found that the Committee provided sufficient notice of what topics it 
would discuss. Id Here, the topic was on remand to the Committee from the RHDC with 
instructions for the Committee to consider "the drainage, materials, size and stripping [sic] of the 
proposed parking lot[.]" Because of this instruction, the complaint argues, the Committee's April 
17 meeting notice should have listed the issues required for discussion by the RHDC. On the 
facts here, we disagree. The April 27 notice closely mirrored the language used on the April 10 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at: www.mass,gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and 24 meeting notices—language we have previously determined satisfied the Open Meeting 
Law's requirements— and it indicated that this topic came to the Committee on remand. This 
was sufficient to notify members of the public that the Committee would be reconsidering the 
earlier discussions. Indeed, the complainant herself understood the notice well enough to attend 
the April 27 meeting. While additional detail on the notice may have been helpful to members of 
the public, the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential topics 
related to a project. See OML 2015-73. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to these 
allegations. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Sandwich Historic District Committee 
Erin Sullivan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 