===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
February 19, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 17  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq. 
Everett City Solicitor  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This letter addresses three complaints1 from Steven Fitzgerald alleging that the Everett 
City Council (the “Council”); its Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections; and its 
Committee of the Whole on Budget violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaints were originally filed with the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections on 
September 21; the Committee of the Whole on Budget on October 5; and the Council on October 
13.2 You responded on behalf of the public bodies by letters dated October 19 and November 9.3  
 
The September 21 complaint alleges that a member of the Committee on Legislative 
Affairs and Elections intentionally posted confusing information on Facebook regarding how 
members of the public could access the Committee’s August 27 meeting.4 The October 5 
complaint alleges that the Committee of the Whole on Budget posted a notice for its September 
 
1 Our office has received additional complaints filed by Mr. Fitzgerald related to the Council and its committees as 
well as other public bodies in Everett. Those complaints will be addressed separately.   
2 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
3 The Council did not respond to the three complaints within the 14 business days allowed under the Law. G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind the Council of its obligation to comply with all provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, including the obligation to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints.    
4 To the extent this complaint alleges that the Director of Communications and Intergovernmental Affairs for Everett 
Community Television also violated the Open Meeting Law, we note that the Director is not a member of the 
Council or its committees. The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting as public 
body members. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we decline to review any allegation that the Director violated 
the Open Meeting Law. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
19 meeting that included inaccurate information regarding the timing of the School Committee’s 
budget presentation.5 The October 13 complaint alleges that portions of the Council’s October 13 
meeting were inaccessible to the public.6 
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law where its 
October 13 meeting was not accessible to the public at all times. We find that the Committee of 
the Whole on Budget did not violate the Law as alleged, although we note other concerns related 
to the Committee’s September 19 meeting. Finally, we find that the Committee on Legislative 
Affairs and Elections did not violate the Law as alleged. In reaching these determinations, we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints; the responses; the requests for further review; a 
video recording of the Council’s October 13 meeting;7 and the notices and minutes of relevant 
meetings. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The September 21 Complaint  
 
The Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections posted to the City’s website, its 
official notice posting location, for a meeting to be held on August 27. The notice stated “this 
meeting will be shown live on ECTV [Everett Community Television].”8 The September 21 
complaint alleges that on the day of the meeting, a Committee member “posted on a [F]acebook 
page that the meeting in question could be viewed by using Zoom.” The complaint alleges that 
this was erroneous and confusing, and the Committee, in its response, acknowledges that the 
Facebook post about the meeting being accessible via Zoom was in error.  
 
A municipality may only have one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its 
website as its notice posting location, then that is the official location for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c). Although public body members should avoid 
sharing inaccurate or confusing information regarding how the public is to access a meeting, for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, we look to the official notice posting location to determine 
whether a public body has complied with the Law. Here, the Committee on Legislative Affairs 
and Elections posted notice to the City’s official notice posting location stating the method by 
which the public could view its August 27 meeting. The complaint does not allege that the 
 
5 For the reasons noted above, we decline to review any allegation that the City Clerk violated the Open Meeting 
Law. Additionally, we decline to review any allegations related to who was invited to attend or speak at the meeting 
as well as any allegation that the Chair praised the City and the City Clerk. These allegations, even if true, do not 
constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
6 The complaint also alleges that the Council has experienced technical problems making its meeting inaccessible to 
the public for “several months.” Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will 
not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2020-156; OML Declination 
3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). Because the complaint does not identify any specific meetings that were 
inaccessible, other than the October 13 meeting which we address herein, we decline to review the general allegation 
that the Council’s meetings have experienced technical problems for several months. 
7 A recording of the October 13 meeting may be found at http://www.cityofeverett.com/492/Watch-Programming-
OnDemand-Live. 
8 Access to the August 27 meeting was provided via remote means in accordance with Governor Baker’s March 12 
Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, which we discuss further below in this 
determination.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
meeting was inaccessible on ECTV. Therefore, we find that the Committee on Legislative 
Affairs and Elections did not violate the Law.  
 
The October 13 Complaint  
 
The October 13 complaint alleges that portions of the Council’s October 13 meeting were 
not broadcast live due to technical problems. The Council acknowledges that it experienced 
technical problems during its October 13 meeting and was therefore unable to broadcast a 
portion of the meeting as it happened. The Council explains that it posted a recording of the full 
meeting online as soon as practicable after the meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.9 In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public, the 
meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2014-
118; OML 2017-172; OML 2018-51. 
 
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
the 2019 novel Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive 
Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to members of the 
public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its 
meetings. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access 
shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to 
the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of 
the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 (emphasis added). 
These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled 
audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id. The Executive Order includes an 
exception to the requirement to provide real-time access to a public body’s proceedings, but only 
in cases where, due to economic hardship and despite best efforts, a public body is unable to 
provide real-time access. Id. In these cases, the Executive Order states that “a public body may 
instead post on its municipal website a full and complete transcript, recording, or other 
comprehensive record of the proceedings as soon as practicable upon the conclusion of the 
proceedings.” Id. 
 
The Council explains that it was “unable to provide alternative means of public access 
live despite best efforts,” and so “[i]n accordance with [the Executive Order], . . . it posted a full 
recording [of the meeting] on its website as soon as practicable after the meeting.” The exception 
 
9 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
in Section (1) of the Executive Order specifically states that a public body may post a recording 
of the proceedings on its municipal website when it cannot provide alternative means of public 
access for reasons of economic hardship and despite best efforts. As such, we construe this 
language to require a public body to show that it cannot provide alternative means of public 
access because of both economic hardship and despite best efforts.  
 
Here, the Council does not argue that it was prevented from making the full meeting 
accessible in real time due to economic hardship, nor does it describe the efforts it undertook to 
provide real-time access once it became aware of the technical difficulties. Therefore, we find 
that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law where the Council did not provide real-time 
access to a portion of its October 13 meeting. See OML 2020-107. We commend the Council for 
posting a full recording of the meeting to the ECTV website afterwards, but emphasize that such 
action does not replace the obligation to provide access to a meeting in real time. Once the 
Council became aware of the technical difficulties interfering with the live stream of its meeting, 
it should have paused its meeting to address the issues, and if access could not be restored the 
Council should have adjourned the meeting until a future date. 
 
The October 5 Complaint  
 
The October 5 complaint arises from the Committee of the Whole on Budget’s erroneous 
inclusion of an extraneous page at the end of its posted agenda for its September 19 meeting. On 
September 10, the Committee posted notice for a meeting, consisting of a budget hearing, to be 
held on September 19 at 8:30 A.M. The notice listed a detailed two-page schedule for budget 
presentations from various city departments, along with a department head or other staff member 
for each, beginning at 8:30 A.M. with the City Solicitor and concluding with the Auditor at 4:00 
P.M. Appended to the notice of the budget hearing was a third page, which appears to be the 
notice for a May 2018 budget hearing regarding the School Department’s budget. The October 5 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Committee of the Whole on Budget’s September 19 
meeting “scheduled the Everett School Committe [sic] to present their budget on Wednesday 
May 30, 2018 at 6:00 pm.,” and listed as representatives for the School Department “disgraced 
former Superintendent Fred Foresteire” and “former members of the school committee who [are 
no] longer members.”  
 
The Committee of the Whole on Budget responded that the inclusion of the third page 
referring to a May 2018 School Department budget hearing was an administrative error. We 
agree that the final page referring to a May 2018 hearing, although confusing, seems to have 
been in error; the first two pages of the posted agenda stand alone as a complete agenda for the 
September 19 budget hearing. The School Department’s budget was not part of the September 19 
hearing; it was the subject of a separate—and separately posted—budget hearing on September 
16. Therefore, we find that the Committee of the Whole on Budget’s erroneous inclusion of a 
page regarding a 2018 budget hearing did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we note two separate concerns regarding the 
Committee of the Whole on Budget’s September 19 meeting. First, the notice for the September 
19 meeting was unclear as to whether the public could attend the meeting in-person, or was 
required to access the meeting via a live broadcast on ECTV. The notice states only in small 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
print at the end of the second page that the “Meeting will be held in the Council Chambers and 
can be viewed live on ECTV.” To satisfy the requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a 
meeting notice include the “place” of the meeting, see G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), the meeting notice 
must identify the specific meeting location or, for a meeting held pursuant to the relief afforded 
by the Executive Order, how the meeting may be accessed remotely. If the public was permitted 
to attend the meeting in person, the meeting notice should have included the street address of the 
meeting location. See OML 20016-38. If access to the meeting was to be provided through 
“adequate, alternative means,” the meeting notice should have included clear instructions for 
accessing the meeting remotely. See OML 2020-102. Here, where neither the complainant nor 
any other individual has asserted that they were misled and unable to access the Committee of 
the Whole on Budget’s September 19 meeting, we order no remedial action, though we remind 
the Committee of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law.    
 
Second, we note that the combined minutes of the Committee of the Whole on Budget’s 
September 16 and September 19 budget hearings are insufficient in several respects. The Open 
Meeting Law requires public bodies to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, 
including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or 
absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used 
at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of 
all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes covering these two meetings—during which the 
Council heard, over the course of many hours, from every department in the City and ultimately 
approved a budget totaling hundreds of millions of dollars—total less than two pages in length.  
The minutes do not include the time of the meetings, do not include a list of members present or 
absent, do not include a summary of the discussions held on each matter, and do not include a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting. With regard to the summary of the 
discussions, we look for substantial compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2020-155; OML 2013-64; OML 2017-104. Although a transcript of the 
discussions is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, 
minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. A statement that a 
discussion on a particular topic took place, without summarizing the discussion, is insufficient. 
See OML 2020-149; OML 2020-55; OML 2012-29. We recommend that the Committee of the 
Whole on Budget revise the minutes of its September 16 and September 19 meetings to comply 
with these requirements. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law 
where a portion of its October 13 meeting was not accessible to the public. We find that the 
Committee of the Whole on Budget and the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections did 
not violate the Law as alleged. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Rosa DiFlorio, Everett City Council President (via e-mail:  
Anthony DiPierro, Chair of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Elections (via e-
mail:   
Everett City Council (via e-mail:  
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
