===PAGE 1===
 
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
February 2, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 7 
 
VIA U.S. MAIL 
 
John Grogan, Chair 
Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of Commissioners 
2 Bernard Gibbons Drive 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Chair Grogan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on May 21, 2022, alleging that 
three members of the Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the 
“Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was filed with 
the acting chair of the Board on or around April 21, 2022.
1  The Board, which lacked a quorum 
at the time the complaint was filed, was unable to respond to the complaint.  The complaint 
alleges that three members of the Board, all of whom subsequently resigned, deliberated outside 
of a posted meeting in preparing and sending a letter to the Department of Housing and 
Community Development (“DHCD”) expressing concerns about various aspects of the operation 
of the Board and the Housing Authority. 
 
Following our review, we find that former Board members Mary Pat Akers, James 
Mercer, and Marie Ryan violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a posted 
meeting.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the 
complainant’s request for further review of the complaint.  We also reviewed a letter addressed 
to DHCD and signed by former members Akers, Mercer, and Ryan dated March 16.  Finally, we 
reviewed minutes of meetings held on January 19, February 23, March 3, March 26, and April 
13.   
 
 
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; therefore, three 
members constitute a quorum.  For at least the past few years there has been much discord 
between current or former Board members and between some Board members and Housing 
Authority staff.  This office has received approximately 20 formal Open Meeting Law 
complaints filed by a Board member and staff member accusing each other of wrongdoing, and 
is aware of other types of disputes as well.   
 
On or around March 16, 2022, then-Board members Akers, Mercer, and Ryan sent a 
letter to the Director of the Bureau of Housing Management at DHCD; the letter contained each 
of their names and signatures.  The letter raised four primary concerns, summarized as follows: 
1) that there is no enforceable policy or resources for Housing Authority staff who are harassed 
by a Board member, where state guidelines direct that harassment be reported to the Board; 2) 
that one-third of Housing Authority units are located in the Town of Sheffield, yet Sheffield 
residents do not have representation on the Board and Great Barrington pays for supervision, 
administration, and public safety for those facilities in Sheffield; 3) that the current structure of 
separate housing authorities in rural communities creates numerous fiscal and staffing 
inefficiencies and creates challenges in attracting competent staff and board members; and 4) 
that a particular unnamed Board member disseminates communications to paid subscribers, 
raising conflict of interest concerns and spreading misleading information which costs Housing 
Authority employees, vendors, and DHCD time and money in addressing.  The drafting of the 
March 16 letter, and the specific issues addressed in the March 16 letter, were not discussed at 
any Board meeting held during the three months prior to the date of the letter. 
 
At the end of the Board’s April 13 meeting, then-Board members Akers, Mercer, and 
Ryan each announced their resignation from the Board, effective immediately. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when a quorum of the Board deliberated 
outside of a properly noticed public meeting.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and that 
mee
tings be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .”  Id.  We 
have determined that a topic falls outside the scope of a body’s jurisdiction where it does not 
involve the public body’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or administration. See OML 
2018-1; OML 2022-37.  Discussion of a public body’s operation is a matter within the body’s 
jurisdiction.  See OML 2017-91; OML 2016-81.  For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a 
quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 
2022-3.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The instant Open Meeting Law complaint was filed after members Akers, Mercer, and 
Ryan had resigned from the Board; the Board did not respond to the complaint as it lacked a 
quorum to meet and take action.  However, it is clear that the issues addressed in the March 16 
letter were matters within the Board’s jurisdiction and that a quorum of the Board deliberated 
outside of a noticed meeting with regard to, at minimum, approval of the letter if not the letter’s 
actual drafting.  Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We note that 
all three members of the Board who deliberated regarding the March 16 letter resigned from the 
Board shortly thereafter, and there is no indication that any current Board member was involved 
with or even had knowledge of the letter at that time. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a properly noticed meeting, although none of 
the current Board members participated in the improper deliberation.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Law.   
 
As we have found numerous Open Meeting Law violations by the Board—whether by 
curren
t or former members—during the past few years, we remind each Board member of the 
Open Meeting Law’s certification requirement, which includes an obligation to review each 
Open Meeting Law determination issued to the Board within the last five years in which we 
found a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(h); 940 CMR 29.04.  We 
also recommend that all Board members attend an Open Meeting Law webinar training 
presented by our office.
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Information on upcoming trainings is available on the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/service -
details/open-meeting-law-trainings. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
      
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Eileen Mooney (via e- mail:  
Gr
eat Barrington Town Clerk (via e-mail: j messina@townofgb.org) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
