===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 101 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Christian Tobin 
Dalton Fire Chief 
daltonchief@daltonfiredistrict.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chief Tobin: 
 
This office received a complaint from Joe Diver, Chair of the Dalton Select Board, on 
February 14, 2024,
1 alleging that the Dalton Fire District Board of Water Commissioners (the 
“Board”), and specifically its chair James Driscoll, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 29, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter received in our office on February 14. We understand the 
complaint to allege that 1) in general, the Board posts meeting notices that lack sufficient 
specificity, and 2) during its January 23 meeting, the Board discussed issues related to the 
purchase of a ladder truck and the American Rescue Plan Act (“ARPA”) funds appropriated for 
such purchase without these topics having been included on the notice for the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged with respect to discussion of the ladder truck and ARPA funds. We decline to review 
whether, in general, the Board posts meeting notices that lack sufficient specificity. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the 
request for further review, the notice and minutes for the Board’s January 23 meeting, and a 
January 19 email sent from the Complainant to the chair of the Board. We also communicated 
via email with you and Melanie Roucoulet, Treasurer/Clerk of the Dalton Fire District. 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaint relates to ARPA funds that had been 
previously appropriated for the purchase of a ladder truck. On Friday, January 19, at 9:01 a.m., 
the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, January 23, at 6:30 p.m. The notice 
included the following topics:  
 
General Business 
a. Approval of minutes 
i. November 28, 2023 
ii. December 30, 2023 
2. Ambulance Report 
3. Fire Department Report 
4. Water Department Report 
5. Administration Report 
 
At 11:04 p.m. on Friday, January 19, the Complainant emailed the chair of the Board, 
James Driscoll, and asked “When will the DFD board vote to return the balance of the ARPA 
dollars back to the Town? I don’t see it on the agenda and we are always told ‘next meeting[.]’ . . 
. We need this resolved ASAP so the dollars can then be applied to other Town priorities.”   
 
On Tuesday, January 23, the Board convened its meeting as scheduled. Toward the end 
of the meeting, under a section identified in the minutes as “General Business,” Chair Driscoll 
noted that he had received an email from the Complainant asking what the Board planned to do 
with the remaining balance of the ARPA funds that had been appropriated. Thereafter, the Board 
discussed issues related to the purchase of the ladder truck. The Board discussed that a law firm 
in New York had sent a quote for initiating legal action against the company the District was 
attempting to purchase the truck from, Northern Fire Equipment, Inc.; that Chair Driscoll had 
spoken that day with the owner of Northern Fire Equipment; and three options, as identified by 
legal counsel, the District had, including filing a lawsuit, keeping the truck, and doing nothing. 
The Board ultimately voted to return the ARPA funds to the Town no later than May 15 if the 
District did not purchase the ladder truck and to contact legal counsel requesting that counsel 
prepare a renegotiated agreement and present it to Northern Fire Equipment.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, a 
list of the topics that the chair, and any other individual authorized to create the notice, 
reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the 
meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-
152.2 The topics for discussion must be listed on the notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting,” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b), 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
so that the public can make an informed decision about whether to attend the meeting to observe 
an anticipated discussion. See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. A 
public body may discuss topics that were not included on the meeting notice if those topics truly 
were not reasonably anticipated 48 hours (excluding weekends and legal holidays) in advance of 
the meeting. See OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119.  
 
To being, we decline to review the allegation that, in general, the Board posts meeting 
notices that include insufficiently specific topics. Complainants must allege violations with a 
degree of specificity as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on 
generalized allegations. See OML 2021-133; OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of 
Assessors). Therefore, we decline to review whether, in general, the Board posts meeting notices 
that lack sufficient specificity.  
 
Although we decline to review this allegation, we take this opportunity to provide 
guidance. In general, a generic notice topic, such as “General Business,” “New Business,” “Old 
Business,” or “Update,” without additional information, will fail to meet the level of specificity 
required for a meeting notice. See OML 2019-92; OML 2021-126 (finding the notice topic 
“Covid-19 Update” lacked sufficient specificity). In the past, when a meeting notice included as 
a topic a report or presentation by somebody who is not a member of the public body, such as 
“Superintendent’s Report” or “Administrator’s Report” or “Report from Department Heads,” we 
have declined to find a violation of the Open Meeting Law for lack of specificity where the chair 
did not anticipate the specific nature of the deliberations. Nonetheless, we encourage chairs, as a 
best practice, to solicit from the presenter details regarding the precise matters to be discussed 
and to include such details on the meeting notice. See OML 2018-33; OML 2012-19 (“[B]est 
practice dictates that the Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain what the Superintendent 
plans to discuss and include all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the meeting notice.”). 
On the other hand, if a public body chair actually knows in advance the specific nature of the 
topics to be discussed during a report, that information must be included on the meeting notice. 
Likewise, if the individual who will give the report is solely or jointly responsible for creating 
the meeting notice, then the notice must specifically list the topics that individual anticipates 
discussing in addition to any topics anticipated by the chair. See OML 2020-152.  
 
 Next, we turn to the allegation that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on January 
23 by discussing the ladder truck purchase and ARPA funds despite these topics not being on the 
meeting notice. The Complainant emailed the Chair at 11:04 p.m. on January 19, less than 48 
hours, excluding Saturday and Sunday, prior to the January 23 meeting scheduled for 6:30 p.m. 
In his email, the Complainant asked when the Board would vote to return the balance of the 
ARPA funds and stated that this issue needed to be addressed as soon as possible. Thereafter, 
Chair Driscoll raised this issue, and the related issue of the ladder truck, during the Board’s 
January 23 meeting, noting that he had received the above-described email from the 
Complainant.  
 
Based on the information before us, we find that discussions of the ARPA funds and the 
related issue of the ladder truck were not reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the meeting 
and that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing these topics despite the 
fact that they were not included on the meeting notice. Although we find no violation in this 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
instance, we remind the Board that had the topics been reasonably anticipated 48 hours or more 
prior to the meeting, the Board would not have been permitted to discuss the topics where they 
were not included on the meeting notice. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: James Driscoll, Chair, Dalton Fire District Board of Water Commissioners  
(via email: hmdcl@msn.com)  
Joe Diver (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
