===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 17, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 83 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Mariem Marquetti Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey, & Lehane, LLC 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
mmarquetti@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney
 Marquetti: 
 
This office received a complaint from Christine McCue Potts on January 4, 2023, 
alleging that the Medfield School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on November 10, 
2022, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 2, 2022.1 The 
complaint alleges that notice for the Committee’s November 7 meeting was insufficiently 
specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when 
it posted insufficiently specific notice. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further 
review. We also reviewed the minutes and a video recording of the November 7 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee posted notice for its November 7 meeting, 
which included, among others, the topic “MPS Policy BEDH/MASC Policy BEDH and BEDH-E 
Discussion” under the subject “New Business.” No additional information about this discussion 
topic was provided in the notice. When it was time to discuss this topic at the November 7 
meeting, Committee member Timothy Knight stated that when he attended the Massachusetts 
Association of School Committees (MASC) Conference the week prior, there was a discussion 
about public participation policies, and he realized that the Committee’s own public participation 
policy should be updated to improve clarity. Members then discussed various procedures that 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
could be implemented during their meetings and referenced documents in a packet that was 
provided to Committee members to review. The packet included the Committee’s current policy 
and the policy from MASC. The same documents were available to the public on the 
Committee’s website and was provided to parents of students in an email. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Meeting notices must include, among other things, “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies 
must list topics for discussion with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a member of the public can read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2012-83.
2 A public body need not 
list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the law’s requirements. See OML 
2014-122. 
 
The complainant asserts that the acronyms in the topic “MPS Pol
 icy BEDH/MASC 
Policy BEDH and BEDH-E Discussion” were too obscure for the public to understand what was 
anticipated for discussion at the November 7 meeting. Further, she points out that “BEDH” and 
“BEDH-E” are not acronyms at all, but classification codes for universal school policies. The 
Committee denies that the topic was insufficiently specific and asserts that members of the 
public were able to understand that the Committee intended to discuss school policies. We find 
that the acronym “MPS” referring to Medfield Public Schools on a Medfield School Committee 
meeting notice could be widely understood by members of the public. However, the acronym 
“MASC” standing for Massachusetts Association of School Committees and policy codes 
“BEDH” and “BEDH-E,” without context or explanation, were not abbreviations or codes that 
would be widely understood by members of the public. Compare OML 2015-197 (finding that 
use of the acronym “TRRP” rendered a meeting notice topic insufficiently specific), with OML 
2015-172 (finding that the acronym “FAA” is commonly used and generally understood by the 
public). While the notice topic suggested that a policy would be discussed, the public would not 
necessarily have understood that the Committee would be discussing its public participation 
policy for its meetings, nor did the notice topic indicate how or where the public could find more 
detail about the topic to be discussed. See, e.g., OML 2023-24 (notice topic “A favorable 
Ordinance Committee report: Chapter 7 Ordinance Revisions” was insufficient to reasonably 
inform the public that the public body would discuss
 salary increases for city councilors and 
other city officials); OML 2022-174 (notice topic “2022-2023 School Year Calendar” was 
insufficient to reasonably inform the public that school committee would discuss changing 
Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day on the school calendar). 
 
The
 Committee asserts that if members of the public were interested in learning more 
about the topic, they could have searched “BEDH” and “BEDH-E” online, and that the policies 
were available on the Committee website and attached to an email to parents of students. 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Although we acknowledge that the Committee took this extra step to make the documents 
available, and we find no indication the Committee intended to conceal the nature of the 
anticipated discussion from the public, the meeting notice itself must be sufficiently specific to 
inform the public of the discussion topic. See OML 2022-199 (“the meeting notice itself must 
contain all information that the Open Meeting Law requires; posting attachments does not cure 
an otherwise defective notice”); OML 2021-138; OML 2019-22.  
 
For the
se reasons, we find that the notice for the Committee’s November 7 meeting 
notice was insufficiently specific, and the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. We 
recommend that the Board avoid abbreviations or acronyms on meeting notices in the future, 
particularly where the abbreviation or acronym is not likely widely understood by members of 
the public and is not explained on the meeting notice. 
 
Finally, we must
  determine whether the Committee’s violation was, as the complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id. Here, we have not previously warned the Committee against the 
violation found here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional 
violation, by the Committee. We therefore decline to find that the violation was intentional. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it posted an insufficiently specific notice for its November 7 meeting. We order the 
Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Committee that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
    
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Christine McCue Potts (via e-mail: ) 
 Medfield School Committee (via e-mail: scchair@email.medfield.net) 
 Marion Bonoldi, Medfield Town Clerk ( via e-mail: mbonoldi@medfield.net) 
 

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 