===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       February 14, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 20 
 
 
Peter L. Mello, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
By email only: pmello@mhtl.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Mello: 
 
This office received a complaint from Phil Johenning on June 14, 2024, alleging that the 
Milton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about April 30, 2024, and Town 
Administrator Nicholas Milano responded, on behalf of the Board, by email dated May 3, 2024.  
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely release certain executive session meeting 
minutes.  
 
 We appr
 eciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  The complaint 
stems from an April 16, 2024, request made by the complainant to the Board for executive 
session meeting minutes “related to the Town’s appeal of no significant impact related to the 4L 
RNAV,” i.e. an Environmental Impact Assessment by the Federal Aviation Administration of 
Runway 4L at Boston Logan International Airport.  The minutes at issue relate to executive 
sessions held on June 29, 2022; October 5, 2022; November 14, 2023; December 11, 2023; 
December 19, 2023; December 28, 2023; and January 9, 2024.  On each of these dates, the Board 
convened in executive session under Purpose 3 and discussed potential or pending litigation 
against the Federal Aviation Administration.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”) (public 
bodies may convene in executive session “[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”).  Ultimately, the Board provided 
the complainant with the requested minutes, with redactions.  It is our understanding that the 
complaint pertains only to those portions of the executive session minutes, and redactions made 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
thereto, that relate to litigation against the Federal Aviation Administration.  Most of the 
executive sessions included discussions of topics unrelated to this litigation matter, and we do 
not review the minutes as to those other topics. 
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
exec
utive sessions.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Open Meeting Law provides that minutes of an 
executive session meeting, as well as the materials used to prepare the minutes and all documents 
and exhibits used at the session, “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . 
. . [for] as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer . . . .”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f).  Specifically, with respect to executive sessions held under 
Purpose 3, “the minutes, preparatory materials[,] and documents and exhibits used at the session 
may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety, unless and until such time as a 
litigating . . . position is no longer jeopardized by such disclosure . . . .”  Id.  Once the litigating 
position is no longer jeopardized by disclosure of the executive session minutes and materials, 
“they shall be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the exemptions under 
[the Public Records Law] apply to withhold [the] records, or any portion thereof, from 
disclosure.”  Id.  The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive session minutes 
lies with the public body.  Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee, 402 Mass. 
179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151.1 
 
The Division’s jurisdiction in the course of the Open Meeting Law complaint process is 
to re
view for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, we 
review whether a public body may lawfully withhold executive session meeting minutes based 
on a claim that the lawful purpose for the executive session is ongoing.  See OML 2020-120.  If 
the public body acknowledges or we find that the purpose for the executive session has expired, 
the public body still may cite to a Public Records Law exemption as a reason for continuing to 
withhold executive session minutes or portions of those minutes.   
 
The Board has explained that the redactions at issue here are based on a claim of 
atto
rney-client privilege and work-product privilege, and not on any assertion that the Open 
Meeting Law executive session purpose is ongoing such that release of the minutes would 
jeopardize the Board’s litigating position.  The Open Meeting Law authorizes the Attorney 
General to investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law and to request 
documents in the course of that investigation but does not give the Division the authority to 
determine whether the Board’s assertion of the attorney-client privilege or any other privilege 
under the Public Records Law is justified.  See OML 2020-157; OML 2016-129; OML 2014-22; 
OML 2013-7.  Any dispute regarding a public body’s claim that minutes are exempt from 
disclosure pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law 
should be directed to the Supervisor of Records in the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s Public 
Records Division.  See, e.g., OML 2020-157; OML 2016-57.  Because the relevant portions of 
the executive session minutes are no longer being withheld from the public under the Open 
Meeting Law, we find no violation of that law.  See OML 2022-87.  We take no position as to 
whether the Board’s claim of attorney-client privilege or work-product privilege is appropriate to 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
justify the redactions to the minutes and note that the complainant may be able to challenge the 
Board’s assertion of such privileges in another forum.  Indeed, the complainant may contact the 
Supervisor of Records for a determination as to whether the minutes may continue to be withheld 
pursuant to a Public Records Law exemption.  See OML 2015-170. 
 
 For the above reasons, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  We 
now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This determination 
does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office.  
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter.  Finally, although we now consider this matter closed, we note that three or more 
registered voters may initiate a civil action to enforce the Open Meeting Law in Superior Court.  
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(f). 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Phil Johenning – By email only:   
Milton Select Board – By email only: sb@townofmilton.org 
Town Administrator Nicholas Milano – By email only: nmilano@townofmilton.org 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
