===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 24, 2018 
OML 2018-10 
Pauline N. Nguyen, Assistant General Counsel 
State Ethics Commission 
One Ashburton Place, Room 619 
Boston, MA 02108 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Nguyen: 
This office received two related complaints from Ronald Beaty alleging that the State 
Ethics Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The first complaint was originally filed with the Commission on October 2, 2017, and the 
Commission responded by letter dated October 10, 2017. This complaint was then filed with our 
office on October 12, 2017. The second complaint was filed with the Commission on October 
12, 2017, and the Commission responded by letter dated October 24, 2017. This complaint was 
then filed with our office on October 26, 2017. In his complaints, Mr. Beaty alleges that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) failing to post notice at least 48 hours prior 
to a meeting, (ii) posting a meeting notice that provided insufficient information about an 
anticipated executive session, (iii) entering executive session without following proper 
procedure, and (iv) failing to review an Open Meeting Law complaint before responding. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice and by failing to review an Open Meeting Law 
complaint before responding. However, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original 
complaint, the Commission's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. 
We also reviewed an e-mail from the Commission to both our office and the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth's office dated September 15, 2017. We reviewed the notice of a Commission 
meeting held on September 21, 2017, as well as the minutes of this meeting. We spoke with the 
complainant by telephone on December 4, 2017. Finally, we reviewed supplementary e-mails 
from the Commission's legal counsel dated November 20 and December 11, 2017 and a 
memorandum from the Commission's legal counsel dated December 28, 2017.1 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission, a state agency that enforces state conflict 
of interest and financial disclosure laws, operates pursuant to several statutory provisions 
governing confidentiality of Commission proceedings. See G.L. c. 268B, § 3(g) ("An opinion 
rendered by the commission [...] shall be confidential^]"); G.L. c. 268B, § 4(a) ("All 
commission proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry or initial staff review to 
determine whether to initiate an inquiry shall be confidential, except that the general counsel 
may turn over to the attorney general, the United States Attorney or a district attorney of 
competent jurisdiction evidence which may be used in a criminal proceeding."); G.L. c. 268B, § 
7 ("Any person who violates the confidentiality of a commission inquiry under the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of section four of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than one 
thousand dollars or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.") The Commission has 
promulgated regulations implementing these confidentiality requirements. See, e.g.. 930 CMR 
3.01(8) ("Legal advice given by the Commission's Executive Director, General Counsel, and 
Legal Division and advisory opinions issued pursuant to M.G.L. c. 268B, § 3(g), shall be 
confidential regardless of whether such advice or opinion is written, oral, or electronic.") 
On September 15, 2017, the Commission posted notice on its website of a meeting to be 
held on September 21, 2017. Also on September 15, 2017, the Commission sent an e-mail 
containing a copy of the notice to the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office, as well as to this 
office. This e-mail read in pertinent part, "The notice has been posted to the Commission's 
website." Due to a technical error, the Commission's website stated that the date on which the 
notice had been posted was September 21, 2017, the day of the meeting at issue. 
The Commission's September 21, 2017 meeting notice is generally divided into two 
parts, "PUBLIC SESSION" and "EXECUTIVE SESSION." The latter half of the notice, under 
"EXECUTIVE SESSION," reads as follows: 
ENFORCEMENT DIVISION MA TTERS 
a. Investigations Memorandum (Enforcement Tab 2) 
b. Enforcement Division Update (Enforcement Tab 3) 
c. List of Open Preliminary Inquiries (Enforcement Tab 4) 
d. PI Report and 3D Submission (Enforcement Tab 5) 
e. PI Report and 3D Submission (Enforcement Tab 6) 
f PI Report and 3D Submission (Enforcement Tab 7) 
g. PI Report and 3D Submissions (Enforcement Tab 8) 
h. PI Report (Enforcement Tab 9) 
i. Supplemental Summons Authorization (Enforcement Tab 10) 
j. Amended Preliminary Inquiry Recommendation (Enforcement Tab II) 
LEGAL DIVISION MATTERS 
a. Request for a Formal Commission Opinion (Legal Tab B) 
b. Summaries of selected informal opinions/advice are enclosed (Legal Tab C) 
ADJUDICA TOR Y MA TTERS 
a. Adjudicatory proceedings status report (Legal Tab D) 
b. In Re Howard Hansen, Adjudicatory Docket No. 16-0001 (Commissioner 
Sartory): continue deliberations 
2 
===PAGE 3===
No further information was given on the notice regarding the legal justification for the 
executive session. The Commission held the September 21, 2017, meeting as planned. The 
chair made a motion to enter executive session "to discuss matters subject to the G.L. c. 3OA, § 
21 subparagraph (a)(7) and § 18, and G.L. c. 268B, §§ 3 and 4. These matters included 
investigatory matters, cases deferred, a preliminary inquiry recommendation, a summons 
authorization request, preliminary inquiry reports, advisory opinions and deliberations." The 
minutes then contain the roll of each Commissioner's vote to enter executive session. 
The minutes of the September 21, 2017 executive session have not been released and 
their contents will therefore not be discussed in detail in this letter. During the time reserved for 
Enforcement Division Matters, the Commissioners discussed matters under initial review by 
Commission staff or in the preliminary inquiry stage. This included discussions of whether to 
authorize formal investigations or summons requests, or whether reasonable cause existed to 
initiate adjudicatory proceedings. During the time reserved for Legal Division Matters, the 
Commissioners discussed a matter that had been referred from the Commission's Legal Division. 
During the time reserved for Adjudicatory Matters, the Commissioners discussed disciplinary 
matters, including issuing a final decision and order, pursuant to G.L. c. 268B, § 4(1). 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Posted Notice of its September 21. 2017 Meeting More Than 48 Hours 
in Advance of the Meeting. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to 
any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In 
an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such 
meeting." G.L. c, 30A, § 20(b). State public bodies, such as the Commission, must post notice 
to a website, along with sending a copy of each notice to the Secretary of the Commonwealth's 
Regulations Division. 940 CMR 29.03(6). 
The complaints allege that the Commission failed to post notice at least 48 hours prior to 
the September 21 meeting. As evidence, the complaint points to the date stamp on the 
Commission website stating that the notice was posted the same day as the meeting. The 
Commission stated in its response that the notice was posted on September 15, 2017 and it 
provided the contemporaneous e-mail stating that the notice had been posted to the Commission 
website. Absent evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts. See 
OML 2017-193.2 We therefore find that the Commission posted the notice more than 48 hours 
prior to the September 21, 2017 meeting, notwithstanding the errant posting date listed on the 
website. The Commission has assured our office that it will ensure in the future that its website 
indicates the correct date and time at which notices are posted. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations are available at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
II. The Commission's September 21, 2017 Meeting Notice was Insufficiently 
Detailed. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meeting notices include "a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The 
notice must list those topics with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). This level of detail is required for 
both open session and executive session topics. See OML 2015-69. 
The complainant alleges that the Commission's September 21, 2017 notice was 
insufficiently detailed. While the first complaint does not specify how the meeting notice was 
lacking, the complainant told us in a telephone conversation that the notice provided insufficient 
information about each executive session topic and also failed to cite the purpose or purposes 
that the Commission relied upon to justify the executive session. With respect to the detail given 
on each executive session topic, we find that the Commission was constrained by its governing 
statutes in how much detail it could provide. The Commission convened in executive session 
pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7), citing to the relevant statutes requiring that Commission 
business be conducted confidentially.3 The Enforcement Division matters were appropriate for 
executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 268B, § 4(a). The Legal Division matters were appropriate 
for executive session pursuant to G.L. c. 268B, § 3(g) and 930 CMR 3.01(8). The adjudicatory 
matters were appropriate for executive session under G.L. c. 268B, § 4(i). The Commission was 
therefore required to withhold information on the meeting notice that would compromise that 
required confidentiality. See OML 2011 -56 (a public body may withhold information that 
would defeat a lawful purpose for secrecy). On the facts present here, we find that the 
Commission permissibly withheld identifying information about each individual or topic 
discussed during the September 21, 2017 executive session. 
The complainant also alleges that the notice provided insufficient information about 
which executive session purposes formed the basis for the Commission's closed-door 
conversation. Our office has concluded that an executive session purpose need not include the 
specific statutory citation if the description is sufficiently clear on which purpose the public body 
has relied. See OML 2016-64. In this instance, however, we find that it was not immediately 
apparent on the face of the meeting notice which executive session puipose justified the 
executive session. Accordingly, the Commission should have indicated the specific purpose(s), 
either identifying it by the statutory language, citation and/or the purpose(s) (i.e., "Purpose 7"). 
See District Attornev for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting 
law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee would 
conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so 
was proper or improper"). We find that this failure constituted a technical violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2017-164. 
3 Public bodies may enter executive session "[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
III. The Commission Followed Proper Procedure Before Convening in Executive 
Session on September 21. 2017. 
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided 
that it has first convened in an open session, that the chair states the purpose for the executive 
session and announces whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the 
executive session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. 
G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21 (a), (b). 
Prior to entering executive session during the September 21, 2017 meeting, the chair 
stated the purpose for the executive session, including a statutory citation, and gave a general 
description of the business to be done in executive session. Our review of the meeting minutes 
shows that the Commission followed all required procedural steps. As discussed above, a chair 
may omit identifying information from the pre-executive session statement where disclosure of 
such information would defeat the lawful purposes for secrecy. That is what happened in the 
present case. The chair also stated the relevant section of the Open Meeting Law to justify the 
executive session. We therefore find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
IV. The Commission Failed to Discuss an Open Meeting Law Complaint Before 
Responding. 
Within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an extension has been 
granted by the Attorney General, the public body shall meet to review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). The chair is required to 
disseminate copies of the complaint and the public body must meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90.4 
The complainant alleges that the Commission's legal counsel responded to the first 
complaint at issue in this letter without the Commission first meeting to review that complaint. 
In response, the Commission stated that the responsibility for responding to all Open Meeting 
Law complaints had been delegated to the Commission's legal counsel during a meeting on July 
16, 2015. If a public body wishes to delegate the responsibility for responding to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint to its legal counsel, it may do so, however the body must still meet to 
consider and refer all complaints. See OML 2017-197. Accordingly, we find that the 
Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to meet to review the first Open Meeting 
Law complaint addressed in this letter prior to the response from counsel. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice and by failing to review an Open 
Meeting Law complaint before issuing a response through legal counsel. We order the 
4 The requirement that a public body meet to review a complaint is codified in the most recent version of the 
Attorney General's Open Meeting Law regulations, effective October 6. However, this interpretation of the Open 
Meeting Law's requirements has been utilized by this office for several years. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
Commission's immediate and future compliance, and we caution that similar future violations 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
6 