===PAGE 1===
A 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.raass.gov/ago 
November 25, 2016 
OML 2016-158 
Joseph Emerson, Esq. 
Emerson & Emerson 
33 Whitney Avenue 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received a complaint from Joaquin Soares on July 5, 2016 alleging that 
the Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
April 20, 2016, and you responded on behalf of the Committee in a letter dated August 3, 
2016.' In his complaint, Mr. Soares alleges that the Committee failed to include sufficient 
detail in its December 23, 2014 executive session minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, your 
response, and the complaint filed with our office, requesting further review. We also 
reviewed the executive sessions minutes, original and amended, from the Committee's 
December 23, 2014 meeting. Finally, we reviewed the Committee's April 14, 2015 
meeting minutes. 
We find the facts as follows. On March 22, 2016, the Committee approved the 
minutes from a meeting held on December 23, 2014, The Committee had not previously 
approved these minutes because the previous chair, as a general practice, did not bring 
forward to the Committee the task of approving some of its meeting minutes. Upon this 
1 Unless an extension of time has been granted, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the 
Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 19.05(5), (6). We 
again remind the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints within the time 
frame required by law. 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
chair's departure from the Committee in April 2015, the new chair put these minutes on 
the agenda for the Committee's April 14, 2015 meeting. During this meeting, the 
complainant, who is a Committee member, moved to "table" the approval of the minutes to 
enable him to do some research. The Committee approved the motion. The chair brought 
the minutes back to the Committee for approval almost a year later, on March 22, 2016.2 
The complainant again requested that the Committee "table" the approval of the minutes, 
which the Committee declined to do. The complainant disagreed with the sufficiency of 
the summary on a written statement that he had read aloud during the meeting and thus 
filed this complaint. 
The original minutes stated that, "Mr. Soares read a prepared statement regarding 
the budget" followed by a motion "To not fund increases above and beyond the employee 
contracts specified." According to the original minutes, after this motion was seconded, 
the complainant stated that "the teachers and administrators have done an outstanding job." 
In response to the complaint, the Committee amended the minutes by reflecting that the 
complainant stated that "teachers have done an outstanding job and administrators have 
done a good job." The revised minutes do not otherwise summarize the complainant's 
statement about the budget, however it is listed in the "List of documents and other 
exhibits" at the end of the minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
The complainant alleges that the original December 14, 2014 meeting minutes do 
not accurately reflect the statement he made concerning the school budget. We find that, 
although the Committee made efforts to amend the minutes to more accurately reflect the 
complainant's opinion of the job performance of teachers and administrators (i.e., that he 
stated that the teachers' performance was outstanding and the administrators' performance 
was good) in the motion following his statement on the budget, the amended minutes 
should have also summarized the complainant's written statement about the budget. See 
OML 2016-35.3 Accordingly, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in this 
regard. 
Approximately a week before these minutes were approved, our office issued OML 
2016-35 on March 14, 2016, in which we found that the Committee violated the Open 
2 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes be reviewed and 
approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Meeting Law by failing to summarize a written statement in its minutes that the 
complainant had read aloud during the meeting. We advised the Committee that simply 
attaching the statement did not meet the Committee's obligation to summarize the 
discussion in its minutes. See OML 2016-35. The Committee's counsel did not receive a 
copy of our determination until March 23, after the meeting had already taken place, and 
therefore was unaware of our office's interpretation at the time. Accordingly, we decline 
to find an intentional violation. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
sufficient detail in its December 23, 2014 meeting minutes. We order the Committee's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Committee or with our office. We invite the Board to contact our office at 617-963-
2540 to discuss the hearing process. 
Sincerely, 
I 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Joaquin Scares 
Stoughton School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
3 