===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
August 25, 2014 
OML 2014-107 
Leo E. Immonen 
Chair, Wrentham Conservation Commission 
79 South St. 
Wrentham, MA 02093 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Immonen: 
This office received a complaint from Michael Mavrides, dated July 12, alleging that the 
Wrentham Conservation Commission (the "Commission") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint alleges that during the Commission's June 12 meeting, the 
Commission closed the meeting while an issue was on the floor. Additionally, the complaint 
alleges that two Commission members conspired to remove Mr. Mavrides from the Commission, 
that the Commission failed to notify Mr. Mavrides of his dismissal, and that the Commission 
falsified the minutes of its June 12 meeting. 
The first three allegations, even if taken as true, would not constitute violations of the 
Open Meeting Law. First, there is no directive in the Open Meeting Law as to when a public 
body may end a meeting. Second, the Commission is a seven-member public body, thus four 
members constitute a quorum. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Even if the alleged communication 
between two Commission members occurred outside of an open meeting, therefore, it would not 
constitute improper deliberation since deliberation is defined as communication "between or 
among a quorum of a public body." See id. Third, the Open Meeting Law does not require that 
a public body provide notice of dismissal to an individual. The law only requires that a public 
body provide notice to an individual if it plans to discuss his or her dismissal in executive session 
underG.L.c.30A,§ 21(a)(1). 
With respect to the remaining allegation, that the June 12 minutes are inaccurate, we find 
that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the July 1 complaint filed with the Commission; the Commission's July 11 response; 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
and the July 12 complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the minutes of the 
Commission's June 12 meeting. 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, and include "a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes need not be transcript of the meeting, but should 
contain enough detail and accuracy that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting 
could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2013-105; 
2013-14; OML 2012-29.2 
As the Commission was preparing to adjourn its June 12 meeting, Mr. Mavrides asked a 
question regarding his reappointment to the Commission. The Commission Chair decided not to 
entertain the question, and the Commission adjourned. The minutes do not note Mr. Mavrides' 
question. Because the Commission did not discuss Mr. Mavrides' question, it was not required 
to include it in the meeting minutes. See OML 2012-29. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or with 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Michael Mavrides 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
wvvw.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerel 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 