===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 11, 2019
OML 2019-115
John McAuliffe 
Town Administrator 
81 Main Street 
Swansea, MA 02777
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. McAuliffe:
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on June 24 and July 1 
alleging that the Swansea Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about May 24 
and 29, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letters dated June 6 and 25. Specifically, 
the complaints allege that the Board failed to approve open session minutes for its April 23 
meeting and executive session minutes for its December 11,2018; April 16; April 23; and May 
28 meetings in a timely manner.1 2 The complaints also allege that the Chair of the Board failed to 
make a required statement when entering into executive session during the Board’s May 28 
meeting.3
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely approve open session minutes for its April 23 meeting and executive session minutes 
for its December 11, 2018; April 16; April 23; and May 28 meetings. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses, the Complainant’s 
requests for further review, meeting notices and minutes, and a video recording of the Board’s
1 Except for when noted otherwise, all dates are in 2019.
2 The complaint alleges that the Board also failed to approve minutes for executive sessions held on December 18, 
2018 and April 30. While the notices for these two meetings included executive sessions as potential topics, a 
review of the available minutes indicates that no executive sessions were held on these dates.
3 In his request for further review, the Complainant also alleges that the Town Administrator did not have 
authorization to respond on behalf of the Board. We decline to review this allegation because it was not raised in the 
original complaint. See OML Declination 4-22-15.
1

===PAGE 2===
May 7 meeting.4 We also communicated with the Town Administrator’s5 Administrative 
Assistant by email and phone.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a three-member public body; thus, two 
members constitute a quorum. The Board convened a meeting on April 23. The Board thereafter 
held meetings on April 30, May 7, May 11, May 20, and May 28. Acceptance of the April 23 
meeting minutes first appeared on the notice for the Board’s May 7 meeting, which listed as item 
9 “Acceptance of Minutes April 23, 2019.” However, minutes for the April 23 meeting were not 
approved at the May 7 meeting. Instead, the Chair stated that he would like to table “item 9.” A 
selectman confirmed that the Chair was referring to the minutes. A selectman then asked if the 
Chair would like a motion and the chair responded, “No. We won’t take them up at this point.” 
There was no further discussion regarding the April 23 minutes. Acceptance of the April 23 
meeting minutes next appeared on the notice for the Board’s May 28 meeting. The Board 
approved the April 23 meeting minutes at the May 28 meeting.
The Board held executive sessions on the following dates: December 11, 2018; April 16; 
April 23; and May 28. At the Board’s May 28 meeting, the Chair moved to enter into executive 
session under purpose two. He did not state that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect 
on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body.
DISCUSSION
L The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Approve Open Session
Minutes for Its April 23 meeting and Executive Session Minutes for Its December 11,
2018; April 16; April 23; and May 28 Meetings in a Timely Manner
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c); 940 CMR 29.11 (2). The Open Meeting 
Law itself does not define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General's Open Meeting 
Law regulations provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a 
meeting be approved at the next meeting. See OML 2019-20.6
The Board did not approve the April 23 meeting minutes until May 28. This was the fifth 
meeting and 35 days after the April 23 meeting. The Board first argues that, although the minutes
4 The video recording of the Board’s May 7 meeting can be found at 
https://www.swanseacabletv.com/2019/05/board-of-selectmen-may-7th-2019/.
5 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person going forward.
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
were not approved until May 28, they were “reviewed in a timely fashion during the Board of 
Selectmen’s meeting held on May 7, 2019. However, a member wanted to revisit the minutes to 
ensure their accuracy and the acceptance of the Meeting Minutes for April 23 rd were tabled” 
(emphasis in original). However, a review of the minutes and video recording for the May 7 
meeting clearly shows that is not what occurred. Rather, the Chair stated that he would like to 
table “item 9.” A selectman confirmed that the Chair was referring to the minutes. A selectman 
then asked if the Chair would like a motion and the chair responded, “No. We won’t take them 
up at this point.” There was no further discussion regarding the April 23 minutes. The Open 
Meeting Law specifically requires that “[mjinutes of all open sessions shall be created and 
approved in a timely manner.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c) (emphasis added). Thus, even if the Board 
had reviewed the minutes of the April 23 meeting at its May 7 meeting, this would not have 
satisfied the requirement that the April 23 minutes be “approved” in a timely manner.
The Board next argues that the May 11 and 20 meetings were not “normally scheduled” 
meetings and were instead “single topic” meetings. The Board states in its response that the May 
11 and 20 meetings were held, respectively, “for the sole purpose of having the Moderator assign 
articles to the Board of Selectmen.... [and] for the purpose of reviewing two town meeting 
articles ....” As such, the Board argues that they should not count toward the three meetings 
under 940 CMR 29.11(2). We disagree. The Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” Although 
we acknowledge the limited scope of those meetings, the Open Meeting Law and regulations 
make no exception for “single topic” meetings or meetings not “normally scheduled,” for 
purposes of timely approval of minutes. See OML 2019-84; OML 2017-103 (public body should 
have created complete minutes for its “workshop” meetings because topics discussed were 
matters within the public body’s jurisdiction).
The Board has not shown good cause for delay in approving the April 23 minutes. See 
OML 2015- 190 (no violation where the public body had repeatedly made good faith efforts to 
approve minutes through multiple rounds of edits in an effort to reach a consensus among its 
members); OML 2015-75 (no violation where a Board member's absence from meetings and 
several meeting cancelations due to winter weather delayed approval of minutes). Because the 
Board met three times within 30 days following its April 23 meeting, it had 30 days, or until May 
23, by which to approve the April 23 minutes. See 940 CMR 29.11(2); OML 2018-82. Having 
shown no good cause for delay, and having failed to approve the April 23 meeting minutes by 
May 23, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve the April 23 
minutes.
We turn now to the allegation that the Board failed to timely approve executive session 
minutes for sessions held on December 11, 2018; April 16; April 23; and May 28. Open Meeting 
Law regulations promulgated by the Attorney General specify that “[mjinutes of all open and 
executive sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner. A ‘timely manner’ will 
generally be considered to be within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 
29.11(2) (emphasis added). After several conversations with the Town Administrator’s 
Administrative Assistant, we have learned that the Board was confused about its obligation to 
approve executive session minutes in a timely manner. The Board had misunderstood the 
requirement to, at reasonable intervals, review executive session minutes to determine if
3

===PAGE 4===
continued non-disclosure is warranted as its only obligation with regard to executive session 
minutes. As such, the Board has not, historically, approved executive session minutes until such 
time as it conducts its periodic review of the minutes and determines that the minutes are 
appropriate for public disclosure.
We commend the Board for performing a periodic review of executive session minutes, 
in accordance with G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1), to determine if continued non-disclosure is 
warranted. We instruct the Board, however, that public bodies have an obligation to approve 
executive session minutes in a timely manner just as they do for open session minutes. 940 CMR 
29.11(2). This approval is separate from and in addition to the requirement to review executive 
sessions minutes at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure is warranted. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2019-20. We note further that review and approval of minutes 
for executive and open sessions must be accurately reflected in the minutes of the meeting at 
which the review and approval takes place.
As a result of the Board’s misunderstanding of its obligations with regard to executive 
session minutes, we find the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely approve 
meeting minutes for executive sessions held on December 11, 2018; April 16; April 23; and May 
28.
2. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law When the Chair Moved to Enter
Into Executive Session at its May 28 Meeting
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the chair 
failed to state in his motion to enter into executive session on May 28 “that holding the 
discussion regarding Lt’s contract negotiations in open session would have a detrimental effect 
on the bargaining position of the town.” The Open Meeting Law requires that before entering 
into any executive session the chair must “state the purpose for the executive session, stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called [and] ... shall publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3), (4). The Law requires that 
additional statements be made by the chair before entering into executive session for specific 
purposes. For example, before entering into executive session under purpose 3, the chair of a 
public body must state that “an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). Entering into executive session 
under purpose 2, “[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel,” requires no such additional statement.
Because the Board entered executive session on May 28 only under Purpose 2, no 
statement regarding a detrimental effect was required. Therefore, the Board did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law.
3. We do not Find the Board’s Violation of the Open Meeting Law to be Intentional
We must determine whether the Board’s failure to timely approve meeting minutes was, 
as the complainant urges, an intentional violation of the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in
4

===PAGE 5===
knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may 
be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has 
previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id. On June 19, 
2018, this office issued a determination to the Board finding that it had violated the Law by 
failing to timely approve minutes. OML 2018-82. Similar to the 2018 determination, here the 
Board missed the deadline to approve minutes by a few days. We also understand from the 
Board that two of the intervening meetings between April 23 and May 28 were held in 
preparation for Special and Annual Town Meetings and that the Board mistakenly believed these 
meetings did not count toward the three meetings or 30 days requirement under 940 CMR 
29.11(2). Therefore, we decline to find that the Board acted to intentionally violate the Law in 
this instance. However, we caution the Board that similar violations in the future may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02.
As to the question of remedy, we find the Board’s repeated failure to approve minutes in 
a timely manner and its confusion regarding approval of executive session minutes concerning. 
We therefore order each member of the Board to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting 
Law training video on minutes, which may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.7 We order each member of the Board to certify in writing to 
the Division of Open Government within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, using the form 
attached, that he has complied with this order.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to approve open session minutes for its April 23 meeting and executive session minutes 
for its December 11, 2018; April 16; April 23; and May 28 meetings in a timely manner. We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we order each 
member of the Board to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training video on 
minutes and certify in writing to the Division of Open Government within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of this letter, using the form attached, that he has complied with this order. We caution 
that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. 
940 CMR 29.02.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely^
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
7 This video may be found at the Training Videos section of the website. The specific video is labeled Video 5: 
Minutes.
5

===PAGE 6===
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email only)
Swansea Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.
6

===PAGE 7===
Certification of Compliance with Order
I____________________ hereby certify that I have read the Attorney General’s determination
(print name)
number OML 2019-115 and, pursuant to the order therein, reviewed the Attorney General’s
Open Meeting Law Training Videos #5 on__________
(date)
Board Member Signature Date
