===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 14, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 164 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Paul Ferland 
Administrator of Community Utilities  
City of Fall River  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Mr. Ferland: 
This office received four complaints from Collin Dias and two complaints from Patrick 
Higgins, filed between June 12 and July 31 (collectively, the “complaints”), alleging that the Fall 
River Watuppa Water Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board between May 12 and 30.2 You 
responded to each complaint on behalf of the Board. Because the complaints raise similar 
allegations, we resolve them jointly through this determination letter. 
 
The complaints generally allege that the Board did one or more of the following: posted 
insufficiently detailed meeting notices; discussed a topic not included on a meeting notice; failed 
to provide adequate, alternative means of access to its meetings; failed to allow for public 
participation; failed to vote by roll call; failed to properly review and respond to Open Meeting 
Law complaints; and failed to timely respond to a request for open session meeting minutes.   
 
This determination reviews the Board’s obligations to comply with the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirements for posting meeting notices; providing adequate, alternative means 
of access to its meetings; providing for public participation; voting by roll call when meeting 
remotely; reviewing and responding to Open Meeting Law complaints; and responding to 
requests for open session meeting minutes. Following our review, we find that the Board violated 
 
1 All dates are in 2020 unless otherwise stated.  
2 Mr. Dias’ complaints are dated May 12, 15, 19, and 26. Mr. Higgin’s complaints are dated May 16 and 30. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the Open Meeting Law by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice; discussing an 
anticipated topic not included on the meeting notice; failing to provide adequate, alternative 
means of access to its meetings; failing to take all votes by roll call where Board members were 
participating remotely; failing to properly review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints; 
and failing to timely respond to a request for open session meeting minutes. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses, and the requests for 
further review, as well as relevant notices and video recordings of the Board’s meetings.3 We 
also communicated with Mr. Dias, the Fall River Administrator of Community Utilities4 (the 
“Administrator”), and the Chair of the Board.   
 
DISCUSSION 
  
Posting Notice 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of 
topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. Public bodies 
are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public 
of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a 
topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.  
 
Where the chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating the meeting 
notice, we look to what that person anticipates will be discussed 48 hours before the meeting. 
See OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190.5 Although the chair may delegate the task of drafting 
meeting notices to another individual, the chair and the public body remain responsible for 
complying with the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2015-190. A public body may discuss a topic 
not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Nevertheless, we strongly encourage public 
bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed on the meeting notice until the topic 
may be included on a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the 
public body. See OML 2013-197. 
 
 The complaints allege that the notice for the Board’s meeting of April 16 was 
insufficiently detailed with respect to the topics “Tabled Minutes from the November 26, 2019 
Meeting” and “FY2021 Budget and Rates,” and that the notice for the Board’s May 13 meeting 
was insufficiently detailed with respect to the topics “Abatements” and “Phase 20 Loan Order.” 
Additionally, the complaints allege that the Board discussed mosquito controls during its May 13 
meeting when that topic was not included on the notice.   
 
 
3 Recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://www.youtube.com/c/FallRiverGovernmentTV.  
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 We find the topics “Tabled Minutes from the November 26, 2019 Meeting” and “FY2021 
Budget and Rates” to be sufficiently detailed where the Board discussed and approved minutes 
of its November 26, 2019, meeting, a discussion that was tabled at its previous meeting, and 
where the Board discussed and approved the budget, including a rate increase. See OML 2020-
132.  
 
We find the topics “Phase 20 Loan Order” and “Abatements” to be insufficiently 
detailed. Although the topic “Phase 20 Loan Order” may have identified the topic to be discussed 
to the members of the Board, it did not meaningfully identify to the general public that the Board 
would discuss a loan for more than 4 and a half million dollars to be used for various projects 
including water main updates. See OML 2013-55 (“Although the notice topics as listed might 
have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting attendees, they were 
potentially unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the regular matters before the 
Board.”); OML 2020-132. Likewise, we find the notice topic “Abatements” insufficiently 
detailed where it did not identify each abatement application to be considered. See OML 2016-
167 (finding that a meeting notice was insufficiently detailed where it did not include the names 
of trash fee abatement applicants). For these reasons, we find that the notice for the Board’s May 
13 meeting was insufficiently detailed.     
 
 With respect to the discussion of mosquito controls during the Board’s May 13 meeting, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the Chair anticipated raising this 
topic several days before the meeting and the topic was not included on the meeting notice. 
When the chair of a public body delegates the responsibility for creating a meeting notice to 
another individual, any topics that individual anticipates will be discussed must be included on 
the meeting notice; however, such delegation does not relieve the public body of the 
responsibility for also including topics that the Chair specifically anticipates 48 hours in advance 
will be discussed at a meeting. In a subsequent discussion with the Chair, we clarified the 
requirement that anticipated topics be included on the meeting notice, and the Chair has 
committed to ensuring that topics he anticipates discussing will be included on the Board’s 
meeting notices going forward.   
  
Adequate, Alternative Means of Access 
 
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
the 2019 novel Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive 
Order temporarily suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically 
accessible to the public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public 
access. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall 
mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at § 1. 
 
The notices for the Board’s April 16 and May 13 meetings both indicated that the 
meetings would be held virtually and then included the physical address for city hall, as well as a 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
telephone number. The notices did not include any information that would allow a member of the 
public to access the meetings, such as a link to the Zoom meeting, nor did they include clear 
instructions for how to obtain such information. We find that the Board failed to provide 
adequate alternative means of access to its April 16 and May 13 meetings, and therefore, those 
meetings were not accessible to the public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2020-132; OML 2020-67.  
 
In its response, the Board explains that it believes it complied with the Executive Order 
where it recorded it meetings and posted those recordings online soon after. The Board explains 
that “[d]espite [its] best efforts[,] what is available to the [Board] is FRGTV recording the 
meeting and posting as soon as practicable.” The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, 
alternative means of public access shall mean measures . . . [enabling] the public to clearly 
follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order 
at § 1 (emphasis added). These measures include, but are not limited to, “providing public access 
through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video conferencing or any other 
technology.” Id. The Executive Order further provides that “[a] municipal public body that for 
reasons of economic hardship and despite best efforts is unable to provide alternative means of 
public access that will enable the public to follow the proceedings of the municipal public body 
as those activities are occurring in real time may instead post on its municipal website a full and 
complete transcript, recording, or other comprehensive record of the proceedings as soon as 
practicable upon conclusion of the proceedings.” This exception expressly requires a public body 
to show that it cannot provide alternative means of real-time public access because of both 
economic hardship and despite best efforts. See OML 2020-107. Here, the Board does not argue 
that it was prevented from making the meetings accessible in real-time due to economic 
hardship, nor does the Board identify any specific efforts it made to provide real-time access to 
its meetings. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where the Board 
did not provide real-time access to its meetings and has not shown that it could not provide such 
access due to economic hardship and despite best efforts. 
 
Public Participation 
 
 The complaints allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law, the Executive 
Order, and the Fall River City Charter “by failing to provide or allow citizen input at its May 13 
meeting.”6 The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow public participation, 
but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission 
of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(g). As 
such, the law gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit public 
comment during a meeting. See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78. 
Therefore, we find no violation with respect to this allegation.   
 
Voting By Roll Call When Members Participate Remotely 
 
With respect to remote participation, the Executive Order suspended only the requirement 
that a quorum of a public body, including the chair, be physically present at the meeting location. 
 
6 The Division of Open Government interprets and enforces the Open Meeting Law only; therefore, we decline to 
review the allegation that the Board violated the Fall River City Charter. See OML 2012-47. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Executive Order at § 2. All other provisions of the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney 
General’s regulations remain in effect. Executive Order at § 4. The Attorney General’s 
regulations require that “[a]ll votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates 
remotely shall be by roll call vote.” 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c). Accordingly, because the Board failed 
to conduct a roll call vote for every vote taken during its May 13 meeting, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-89; OML 2020-82.7 
 
Responding to an Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Upon the filing of an Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair “shall 
disseminate copies of the complaint to the members of the public body,” and “the public body 
shall meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to 
the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.” 940 CMR 29.05(3), 
(5). Thus, a public body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response or delegate 
that authority before a response to the complaint is sent to the complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5); OML 2017-197; OML 2012-90; OML 2017-132.  
 
 The complaints allege that the Board failed to properly review two Open Meeting Law 
complaints, and that the Board did not authorize the Administrator to respond to those 
complaints on its behalf. After review of the Board’s response and recordings of the Board’s 
May 13 and 27 meetings, it is our understanding that the Board’s practice is to have the 
Administrator review any Open Meeting Law complaint addressed to the Board, 
“administratively” respond on the Board’s behalf, and then forward the complaint and response 
to the Board so that the Board may “place [the complaint and response] on file.” This procedure 
does not comport with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
The Board may delegate authority to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint to the 
Administrator, but it nonetheless is obligated to meet to review the complaint before responding. 
See 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Board may review the complaint at a meeting and then authorize the 
Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator may receive the complaint 
and draft a response for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not remove itself 
entirely from the process. See OML 2020-96 (“[F]orwarding a complaint to legal counsel prior 
to a meeting does not violate the law as long as the public body reviews the complaint and any 
draft response during a meeting, approves the draft response during that meeting, and then either 
decides to send the response itself or authorizes legal counsel to send the response.”). Here, 
where the Board did not meet to review the complaints and authorize the Administrator to 
respond on its behalf before the responses were sent to the complainant, the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we note that it is not clear whether the complaints the 
Administrator responded to were circulated to the Board upon receipt of the complaints. We 
remind the Board that once a complaint is received, the chair must circulate the complaint to the 
other Board members.   
 
 
7 Based on our review of the recordings of the Board’s meetings, we note that at times the Board moves very quickly 
through its votes, sometimes declaring the result of a vote before a motion and second have been made, or before the 
vote has been completed. We note that this practice appears to make it difficult for the Board to comply with the 
requirement to vote by roll call when members participate remotely.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Responding to a Request for Open Session Meeting Minutes 
 
Public bodies must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(a). The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft form, 
shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). If 
minutes do not yet exist, in either draft or approved form, at the time of a request, the public 
body is still required to respond to the request within 10 days, notifying the requestor that the 
requested minutes do not exist in either approved or draft form. See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-
71; OML 2015-173. 
 
 On May 13, Mr. Dias requested a copy of the minutes for the Board’s February 5, April 
16, and May 13 meetings. Mr. Dias made this request via email to the Board, explaining that the 
request was being made pursuant to Section 22(c) of the Open Meeting Law. The Board did not 
respond to this request within 10 days, but rather provided Mr. Dias with a copy of the requested 
minutes after Mr. Dias filed an Open Meeting Law complaint regarding the Board’s failure to 
respond to his request of May 13. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
respond to Mr. Dias’ request for open session meeting minutes within 10 days.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice; discussing an anticipated topic not included on 
the meeting notice; failing to provide adequate, alternative means of access to its meetings; 
failing to take all votes by roll call where Board members were participating remotely; failing to 
properly review and respond to Open Meeting Law complaints; and failing to timely respond to a 
request for open session meeting minutes. We find that the Board did not violate the Law in the 
other ways alleged. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to 
violate the law. Additionally, because we find multiple violations related to a variety of 
requirements of the Law, we order each Board member to attend an Open Meeting Law webinar 
presented by the Division, or other comprehensive Open Meeting Law training, and certify to our 
office that they have done so within 60 days of receipt of this letter.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
 
cc: Fall River Watuppa Water Board (via e-mail:  
Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
Patrick Higgins (via email:  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
