===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 5, 2016 
OML 2016-92 
Joseph Callanan 
Weymouth Town Solicitor 
75 Middle Street 
Weymouth, MA 02189 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Callanan: 
This office received a complaint from Elizabeth Nolan-Foster dated April 29,' alleging 
that the Weymouth School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about January 21, 
and you responded by letter dated February 23. The complaint alleges that a topic on the 
Committee's January 21 notice lacked sufficient detail. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, your response, and the 
complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notice of, and 
open session minutes from, the Committee meeting held on January 21. 
We find the facts to be as follows. During its January 21 meeting, the Committee 
discussed the process for selecting a new school superintendent, an ongoing discussion topic at 
Committee meetings. The Committee listed this topic on the meeting notice under the heading, 
"Old Business," as "Superintendent Search Process." When the Committee reached this topic at 
the meeting, Committee Chair Lisa Belmarsh stated that, "there are two items that need to be 
addressed." According to the minutes, the discussion topics were "categories for the search 
committee" and salary for the position. The Committee first discussed the creation of a 
superintendent search committee before discussing the salary range for the new superintendent. 
The Committee reviewed a chart of local district salaries created by Committee member Dr. John 
Sullivan. The Committee then voted to set the salary range for the superintendent between 
$165,000 and $185,000, which was information that the Committee decided to include in the job 
posting. 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to 
list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2016-35.2 
The complainant asserts that the topic in the Committee's January 21 meeting notice 
regarding the superintendent search process should have specifically indicated that the 
Committee planned to discuss the salary range for the superintendent. The discussion of salary 
to include in the job posting was part of its ongoing discussion of the Committee's search for a 
school superintendent. While additional information about the fact that the Committee 
specifically planned to discuss and vote on the salary range would have been helpful to the 
public, we find that discussion was within the scope of the posted topic, "Superintendent Search 
Process," such that any member of the public interested in the superintendent search process had 
sufficient information to decide whether to attend the meeting. See OML 2014-125; OML 2014-
60. Accordingly, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Elizabeth Nolan-Foster 
Weymouth School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 