===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
May 6, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 63 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Shannon D. Resnick, Esq. 
Legislative Counsel to the Brockton City Council  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Resnick: 
 
This office received four complaints from Jeanne Holmes-Kireilis on September 22, 
2020,1 alleging that the Brockton City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 The complaints were originally filed with the Council on or about July 
18, and you responded on behalf of the Council by letters dated August 4. Together the 
complaints allege that 1) the Council failed to properly post notices for meetings held on June 
22, 23, 24, and 25; and 2) meetings held on June 22 and 25 were inaccessible to the public.3         
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficient notices for meetings held on June 23 and 24, and by holding a meeting on 
June 22 that was inaccessible to the public. We find the Council did not violate the Law in the 
other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaints; the Council’s responses; the request for further review; portions of video recordings 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaints also allege that Legislative Counsel (for the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person) and 
the City Clerk violated the Open Meeting Law. As we explained in an earlier determination resolving other 
complaints filed by the Complainant, see OML 2020-111, the Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and their 
members only. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Therefore, we decline to review allegations that Legislative Counsel or 
the City Clerk violated the Open Meeting Law.  
3 The complaints raise additional allegations that do not implicate the Open Meeting Law. We decline to review 
those allegations. See OML 2019-55; OML Declination 7-2-18 (Edgartown Planning Board). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
of Council meetings held on June 22, 23, 24, and 25;4 and the calendar entries and agendas for 
those same meetings. We also communicated with Legislative Counsel by email and phone, and 
with the Complainant by email.   
 
FACTS 
 
The Meeting Notices 
 
 
We find the relevant facts as follows. The City of Brockton has adopted its website, 
http://www.brockton.ma.us, as its official notice posting location. It is the Council’s general 
practice to create a calendar entry on the main calendar page of the website and upload a meeting 
“agenda” to the calendar entry. Frequently, neither the calendar entry nor the agenda separately 
contain all the information the Open Meeting Law requires be included in a meeting notice, but 
when taken together, the calendar entry and the agenda constitute a complete notice under the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
On June 16, the Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 25 at 7:00 p.m. 
The notice provided that the public could access the meeting live on YouTube and included a 
link to the YouTube channel. On June 18 at 5:19 p.m., the Council posted notice for a meeting to 
be held on June 22 at 7:00 p.m. The notice again provided that the public could access the 
meeting live on YouTube and included a link to the YouTube channel.  
 
On June 19 at 10:53 a.m. the Council posted notices for budget hearings to be held in the 
evenings on June 23 and 24. The calendar entries listed the time of the budget hearings as 6:30 
p.m., the location as “Council Chambers at City Hall,” and the venue as “Brockton City Hall 45 
School St. Brockton, MA 02301 United States.” Originally, the Council had anticipated that it 
would hold the public comment portion of the budget hearings in person and on June 23 only. 
Prior to the budget hearings, the Mayor closed city hall to the public due to an increase in Covid-
19 cases. In response, the Council decided to allow the public to provide comment by letter, 
email, or on YouTube. Additionally, in response to the large volume of public comments the 
Council received, it decided to hold public comment sessions beginning at 6:00 p.m. on both 
June 23 and 24. Therefore, the Council added additional calendar entries noticing the June 23 
and 24 public hearing sessions to be held from 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., and providing instructions 
for how to participate in public comment. 
 
The combined agenda for the two budget hearings stated as follows: 
 
City of Brockton 
Notice of Public Hearing 
Proposed FY21 Budget 
Agenda of the Finance Committee 
Tuesday June 23 and Wednesday June 24, 2020 at 6:00PM.  
. . . 
 
4 Video recordings of the Council’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeKi5Rwk6gS_3mfIUPa3F_A.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Alternative public access to this meeting shall be provided in the following 
manner:  
The meeting will be televised via Brockton Community Access TV. 
The meeting will be live-streamed and available at 
https://www.youtube.com/user/TheBrocktonChannels/live 
 
On both June 23 and June 24, from 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Public Comments will 
be taken on the FY21 Budget.   
 
The Meetings  
 
On June 22, the Council convened a meeting with all Council members participating 
remotely via Zoom. Due to technical difficulties, the June 22 meeting was not streamed live on 
YouTube. Notwithstanding this technical failure, the Council proceeded with the meeting, which 
was broadcast live on Facebook and on Brockton Community Access (“BCA”), the local public 
access television station.  
 
On June 23, at approximately 6:15 p.m., the Chair opened the public comment portion of 
the budget hearing, which ran until approximately 6:34 p.m. During this time, the Chair and the 
Clerk for the Council read aloud emails, letters, and YouTube comments from the public. 
Thereafter, the Chair closed the public comment portion and the budget hearing commenced.   
   
On June 24, at approximately 6:00 p.m. the Chair opened the public comment portion of 
the budget hearing, which ran until approximately 6:36 p.m. During this time, the Chair and the 
Clerk for the Council again read aloud letters, emails, and YouTube comments from the public. 
Thereafter, the Chair closed the public comment portion and the budget hearing commenced.  
 
 On June 25, the Council convened a meeting with all members participating remotely via 
Zoom and the meeting accessible to the public via livestream on YouTube. Over the course of 
the meeting the Chair experienced problems with her internet connection that made her 
experience choppy and caused other Council members to appear frozen to the Chair. At times the 
Chair could not see other Council members at all, and at times the Chair was not visible to the 
other Council members. At one point, Councilor Winthrop Farwell experienced a power surge 
and was disconnected from the meeting. The Chair called a brief recess to allow Councilor 
Farwell to rejoin the meeting. During the recess the Council noticed that Councilor Thomas 
Monahan was also disconnected from the meeting. Council members attempted to reach 
Councilor Monahan but were unsuccessful. Once Councilor Farwell reconnected to Zoom the 
meeting continued. A few minutes later, Councilor Monahan rejoined the meeting as well and 
the Council retook a vote it had taken while Councilor Monahan had been disconnected from the 
meeting. Although these individual Councilors experienced technical problems throughout the 
meeting, it appears that at all times the Councilors who were logged into the meeting could be 
heard and the YouTube livestream of the meeting continued uninterrupted.    
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.5 In order for a meeting to be truly open to the public, the 
meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the meeting. See OML 2014-
118; OML 2017-172; OML 2018-51. 
 
On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
the 2019 novel Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive 
Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to members of the 
public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its 
meetings. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access 
shall mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to 
the deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of 
the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1 (emphasis added). 
These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled 
audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id. Our office has published guidance 
explaining that “‘[a]dequate, alternative means of access’ could include Zoom, a high-capacity 
telephone conference line, Facebook Live, YouTube Live, and broadcasting on live TV, 
including local cable access television.” See Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding 
Meetings During the COVID19 State of Emergency.6 The Executive Order includes an exception 
to the requirement to provide real-time access to a public body’s proceedings, but only in cases 
where, due to economic hardship and despite best efforts, a public body is unable to provide real-
time access. Executive Order at ¶ 1. In these cases, the Executive Order states that “a public body 
may instead post on its municipal website a full and complete transcript, recording, or other 
comprehensive record of the proceedings as soon as practicable upon the conclusion of the 
proceedings.” Id. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must contain the date, time and place of the meeting and include a list of the topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. Additionally, “[t]he date and 
time that a meeting notice is posted [must] be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.” 940 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 The Attorney General’s Updated Guidance on Holding Meetings During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, 
updated June 2, 2020, is available here: https://www mass.gov/service-details/updated-guidance-on-
holdingmeetings-during-the-covid-19-state-of-emergency. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CMR 29.03(1)(d). If the public will be required to access the meeting remotely, as allowed under 
the Executive Order, the notice must include the “adequate, alternative means” by which the 
public may access the meeting remotely in real time. See OML 2020-102; OML 2021-18. 
 
I. The Council Timely Posted Notice for All Four Meetings, But Violated the Law 
When It Posted Notices for the June 23 and 24 Meetings That Included Conflicting 
Location Information. 
The complaints allege that the Council failed to properly post notice for meetings held on 
June 22, 23, 24, and 25. In support of this assertion the complaints reference two Facebook posts 
and a newspaper notice. The City has adopted its municipal website as the official method of 
notice posting, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). A municipality may only have one 
official notice posting location and if it has adopted its website as its notice posting location, as 
the City has in this case, then that is the official location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 
See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c). With respect to all four meetings, we find that notice was 
timely posted to the municipal website.7 Additionally, we find that for the June 22 and June 25 
meetings, the calendar entries and agendas, taken together, provided all required information, 
and therefore notice was properly posted for these two meetings. See OML 2018-53. 
 
With respect to the June 23 and June 24 meetings, we find that the meeting notices did 
not comply with the Open Meeting Law because the calendar entries and the combined agenda 
identified different, and conflicting, “locations” for the meetings. The calendar entries identified 
the location of the meetings as the Council Chambers (i.e., in person), while the combined 
agenda stated that the meetings would be physically closed to the public and that access would 
instead be provided via YouTube and BCA. That meetings of public bodies be accessible to the 
public is fundamental to the Open Meeting Law; therefore, it is imperative that a meeting notice 
state clearly how the public may access the meeting. We find that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law by posting notices for its June 23 and 24 meetings that did not clearly inform the 
public of how it could access those meetings. See OML 2021-17 (noting that a meeting notice 
stating that the meeting would be held at a physical location and could be viewed on cable 
access, without making clear that the public was required to access the meeting remotely only, 
did not satisfy the Law’s requirement to include the “place” of the meeting).8  
 
The Complainant asserts that the Council intentionally violated the Law with respect to 
the meeting notices. After review of the evidence before us, we see no basis for finding an 
intentional violation. See G. L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. We have not previously warned 
the Council against the violation found here, nor do we find other evidence suggesting an 
intentional violation. Instead, we find that the Council mistakenly failed to update the calendar 
 
7 Although we find that the meeting notices were timely posted, we remind the Council that “[t]he date and time that 
a meeting notice is posted [must] be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); see also 
OML 2020-140. 
8 We do not find a violation of the Law with respect to the start time of the June 23 and 24 meetings, where the 
Council posted separate calendar events for public comment at 6:00 p.m. and the budget hearing at 6:30 p.m. along 
with a single meeting agenda explaining that public comment would begin at 6:00 p.m. followed by the budget 
hearing at 6:30 p.m.  However, we note that the four separate calendar events, with a single meeting agenda, may 
have been confusing and we advise the Council to post notices for its meetings in a clear and easily understandable 
manner in the future.  
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
entry portion of its meeting notices when the meeting information was changed in response to 
the closure of city hall.  
 
II. The Council Violated the Law When It Became Aware That Its June 22 Meeting 
Would Not Be Streamed Live on YouTube and Proceeded With the Meeting 
Anyway.   
The complaints allege that the Council’s June 22 and 25 meetings were inaccessible to 
the public because they were not streamed live on YouTube due to technical problems.9 After 
review of the video recording of the Council’s June 22 meeting, we find that the Council violated 
the Open Meeting Law on June 22 when, despite learning that technical problems prevented the 
meeting from being streamed live on YouTube, the Council proceeded with the meeting. 
Although the June 22 meeting was also streamed live on Facebook and broadcast live on BCA, 
neither method of access was included on the notice for the June 22 meeting. Because the only 
method of real-time access specified on the notice for the June 22 meeting was YouTube, when 
the Council became aware that, due to technical problems, the meeting would not be streamed 
live on YouTube, it should have rescheduled the meeting for a future date. See OML 2021-17; 
OML 2020-107. The Council explains that it posted a full recording of the June 22 meeting 
online as soon as practicable after the meeting. Although the Executive Order includes an 
exception to the requirement that a public body provide real-time access to its proceedings, this 
exception only applies where a public body is unable to provide real-time access to its meetings 
due to both economic hardship and despite best efforts. See OML 2020-107. Here, the Council 
has not asserted that it was unable to provide real-time access due to economic hardship, nor has 
it explained what, if any, efforts it made to provide real-time access to its June 22 meeting via 
YouTube. Therefore, we find that the Council violated the Law when it did not provide real-time 
access to its June 22 meeting via YouTube, which was the sole method of access listed on the 
notice for the June 22 meeting.  
 
Next, we find that the June 25 meeting was accessible to the public in real time on 
YouTube. Although the Chair and other Councilors individually experienced technical problems 
at times during the June 25 meeting, we find no evidence that there were technical problems that 
interrupted the livestream of the meeting to the public via YouTube. In support of her assertion 
that the meeting was not accessible to the public live on YouTube, the Complainant explains that 
when she tried to access the June 25 meeting she was presented with a black screen containing a 
warning. The Complainant provided our office with a screenshot showing a black screen and an 
error warning stating “An error occurred. Please try again later. (Playback ID: 
91631RuXfPAq2zei) Learn More.”  
 
After extensive communications with both the Complainant and Legislative Council in an 
effort to determine whether the technical difficulties the Complainant experienced were on her 
 
9 The complaints also alleged that the City has consistently experienced technical difficulties when streaming 
meetings live on YouTube. Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not 
conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations. See OML 2020-156; OML Declination 3-
20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors). Because the complaints do not identify any specific meetings that were 
inaccessible, other than the June 22 and June 25 meetings which we address herein, we decline to review the general 
allegation that the Council’s meetings have experienced technical problems. 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
end or caused by the broadcast itself, and after inviting the Complainant to provide contact 
information for other members of the public who she asserts experienced similar difficulties 
accessing the meeting but receiving no response from the Complainant, we find insufficient 
evidence to conclude that there was a problem with the livestream itself that rendered the 
meeting inaccessible to the public. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public 
body’s version of events and find that the Council’s June 25 meeting was accessible to the 
public. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-73.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting insufficient notices for meetings held on June 23 and 24, and by holding a meeting on 
June 22 that was inaccessible to the public. We order the Council’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Winthrop Farwell, Jr., Council President (via email:   
Jeanne Holmes-Kireilis (via e-mail:  
  
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
