===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
June 26, 2018 
OML 2018-96 
Mina Makarious, Esq. 
Anderson & Kreiger, LLP 
50 Milk Street, 21st Floor 
Boston, MA 02109 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Comnlaint 
Dear Attorney Makarious: 
This office received a complaint from Grant Carrow, dated May 17, alleging that the 
Lexington Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 21, and the Board responded 
by letter dated April 11. In his complaint, Mr. Carrow alleges that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by posting insufficiently specific meeting notices on two occasions. 
Following our review, we find that one of the meeting notices at issue lacked sufficient 
detail. However, we find that the other notice complied with the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notices for Board meetings 
held on January 31 and February 28. Finally, we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by 
telephone on June 8.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Town of Lexington has adopted its municipal website 
for notice posting, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).3 It is the Board's practice to also post 
meeting packets containing additional information and documentation relevant to the meeting at 
a separate portion of the website.4 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 The specific webpage registered with our office is https://www.lexingtonma.gov/calendar-by-event-type/16. 
4 Such meeting packets can be found here: https://lexington.novusagenda.com/AgendaPublic/. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
On January 10, the Board posted a notice stating that a public hearing on a proposed 
zoning bylaw amendment would be held on January 31. The relevant portion of the notice read 
as follows; 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning BylaM> and Map to allow additional uses 
and density in the commercial district along Marrett Road near Spring Street by creating 
a new zoning district replacing the existing CN and CS districts, or act in any other 
manner in relation thereto. 
The notice also included a link to a website containing the full text of the proposed 
amendment. The Board then held the January 31 meeting as planned and discussed, among other 
things, the proposed zoning amendment. The Board tabled the issue for future discussion. 
On February 23, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on February 28. The 
notice summarized the Board's anticipated discussion as: "Public Hearing: Proposed 
Commercial District." The notice did not contain any additional information about the 
anticipated discussion. The Board separately posted a meeting packet that provided more 
detailed information about the public hearing, including the text of the proposed zoning 
amendment. The Board held the February 28 meeting as planned and discussed a revised version 
of the zoning bylaw amendment. One member of the Board stated that "the Board has not had 
time to drill down and review the town-wide consequences and is not being [sic] a holistic 
approach." Another member expressed a concern that "other [commercial] districts in the town 
would want the same considerations." At the conclusion of the public hearing on the issue, the 
Board voted to recommend to Town Meeting that it vote to refer the amendment back to the 
Planning Board for further discussion. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post 
notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to 
list topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to 
include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2018-7; OML 
2015-35.5 The law does not require the meeting notice to list all issues tangential to the topic. 
See OML 2016-120. 
The complaint alleges that the January 31 and February 28 meeting notices lack sufficient 
specificity. With respect to the January 31 notice, the complaint points to the statement by a 
Board member that the proposed zoning amendment could affect other commercial districts in 
the town. Because of this statement, the complaint urges that other districts should have been 
referenced in the notice. We disagree. The January 31 notice explained that a public hearing 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
was to be held regarding a citizen's petition to amend the zoning bylaw. It included the location 
of the proposed district, a brief description of the amendment, and a link to the full text. We find 
that inclusion of this information made the notice sufficiently specific under the Open Meeting 
Law. The fact that a Board member subsequently observed that the proposed amendment could 
affect districts beyond the one being discussed is a tangential issue which was not required to be 
part of the notice under the Open Meeting Law, See OML 2016-137; OML 2016-120; OML 
2015-73. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to this allegation. 
In contrast, we find that the notice for the February 28 meeting, which listed only "Public 
Hearing: Proposed Commercial District," was not sufficiently specific to satisfy the requirements 
of the Open Meeting Law, A reasonable member of the public, upon seeing the posted notice, 
would not necessarily be made aware which commercial district would be discussed and would 
not necessarily be able to understand the anticipated nature of the discussion. As is the case with 
license applications, to the extent that the Board is aware of which specific commercial districts 
it will discuss during the meeting, it should take the additional step of listing this information on 
the meeting notice, including the location under consideration. This level of detail would 
provide the public with sufficient information to understand what business is being transacted by 
the Board, See OML 2011-11; OML 2016-90, Had the Board included the same level of detail 
in its notice for the February 28 meeting as it did in its notice for the January 31 meeting, the 
notice would have been sufficient for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, See OML 2018-7, 
The Board urged us to conclude that the meeting notice was understandable if considered 
in the context of the meeting packets and the Board's discussions at the previous meetings. 
Though we commend the Board for posting summaries of each agenda item on its website, these 
summaries are not part of the official meeting notice. The Open Meeting Law requires that each 
individual notice be sufficiently specific, standing on its own, to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 90 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice of its February 28 meeting with sufficient specificity. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future 
violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Grant Carrow 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Lexington Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 