===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 6, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 92 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Nicole I. Taub, Esq. 
Town Solicitor  
ntaub@braintreema.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Taub: 
 
This office received a complaint from Stephen O’Brien, a member of the Braintree Town 
Council (the “Council”), on November 30, 2022,
1 alleging that the Council, and specifically its 
President Meredith Boericke and Vice President Charles Ryan, violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about August 
31, and, after an extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Council 
by letter dated October 20. The complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open Meeting 
Law during its August 2 meeting because Councilor O’Brien—who participated remotely—was 
not allowed to introduce a motion and was inaudible at times.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law when, at 
times, Councilor O’Brien was not clearly audible during the August 2 meeting. We decline to 
review the allegation that Councilor O’Brien was not allowed to make a motion. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s response, the 
request for further review, additional letters from the Complainant, and a video recording of the 
Council’s August 2 meeting.
2 
 
The complaint stems from the Council’s August 2 public hearing regarding a citizen 
petition to amend the Town’s zoning ordinance, allowing for a marijuana establishment. The 
thrust of the complaint is that the Complainant, Councilor Stephen O’Brien, was not allowed to 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Council’s August 2 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08aSNKoZrlw. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
bring a motion to refer the matter to the Committee of Ways and Means. As part of this 
allegation, the complaint alleges that Councilor O’Brien, who attended the meeting remotely via 
phone, was inaudible at times.  
 
To begin, we decline to review the allegation that Councilor O’Brien was not allowed to 
make a
 motion during the August 2 meeting. The Division of Open Government’s jurisdiction 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law does not require that 
a chair recognize members of the public body who wish to speak, nor does it guarantee public 
body members the right to make motions. Instead, the Open Meeting Law provides that “[n]o 
person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The term “person” in this 
section of the law applies to both members of the public and members of the public body. See 
OML 2013-135; OML Declination 5-17-23 (Monson Board of Selectmen).3 Therefore, the Open 
Meeting Law allows the chair to decline to recognize or call on a member of the body. See OML 
2020-134 (public body did not violate the Open Meeting Law when, during a meeting held 
remotely by Zoom, the chair caused a fellow public body member to be muted in order to 
prevent her from speaking). Because the allegation that Councilor O’Brien was not allowed to 
bring a motion, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law we 
decline to review the allegation. See OML Declination 5-17-23 (Monson Board of Selectmen); 
OML 2020-134; OML 2013-135; OML Declination 1-26-22 (Uxbridge Finance Committee). 
Therefore, our review is limited to whether Councilor O’Brien was clearly audible during the 
August 2 meeting.  
 
The Ope
n Meeting Law allows for members of public bodies to participate in meetings 
remotely. G. L. c. 30A, § 20(d); 940 CMR 29.10.4 However, when a member of a public body 
participates in a meeting remotely, the remote member and “all persons present at the meeting 
location [must be] clearly audible to each other.” G. L. c. 30A, § 20(d); see also 940 CMR 
29.10(4)(a). Permissible methods of remote participation include “telephone, internet, or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing [or] any other technology that enables the remote 
participant and all persons present at the meeting location to be clearly audible to one another.” 
940 CMR 29.10(6)(a).  
 
Two Counc
ilors participated in the August 2 meeting remotely—Councilor Shannon 
Hume and Councilor O’Brien. Councilor Hume called into the meeting on the Council Clerk’s 
cellphone and Councilor O’Brien called into the meeting on the Town Clerk’s cellphone. The 
Council Clerk and the Town Clerk helped facilitate the participation of the two remote 
Councilors, including by holding their phones up to microphones so that the Councilors could be 
heard by those in attendance at the meeting location.  
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 Temporary provisions first established by Governor Charles Baker in response to the Covid- 19 pandemic and still 
in effect at this time have relieved municipalities of the requirement to adopt remote participation and have relieved 
public bodies of the requirement that a quorum and the chair of a meeting be physically present at a meeting 
location. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
In general, when formally recognized to speak, as well as when voting, both Councilor 
Hume and Councilor O’Brien were clearly audible to those in attendance at the meeting location. 
However, there were times during the meeting when Councilor O’Brien was not clearly audible. 
For this reason, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law. G. L. c. 30A, § 20(d); 
940 CMR 29.10(4)(a).   
 
We order the Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law 
and caution that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. Although we do not order any 
further remedial action, we do recommend that in the future the Council use a means of remote 
participation, such as a conference line or Zoom, that allows Councilors to more fully participate 
in meetings.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Council or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely,      
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meredith Boericke, President, Braintree Town Council (via email: 
mboericke@braintreema.gov) 
Braintree Town Council (via email: towncouncil@braintreema.gov) 
Susan Cimino, Clerk of the Braintree Town Council (via email: 
scimino@braintreema.gov) 
James Casey, Braintree Town Clerk (via email: jmcasey@braintreema.gov) 
Stephen O’Brien (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
