===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 11, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 141 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Noemi Kawamoto, Esq. 
Brooks & DeRensis, P.C. 
nkawamoto@bdboston.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kawamoto: 
 
On May 1, 2025,
 1 this office received a complaint from Dina Favreau, a member of the 
Billerica Select Board (the “Board”), alleging that the Board, and specifically Board member 
John Burrows,2 violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about April 4, and you responded on behalf of the Board by 
letter dated April 23. The complaint alleges that, in relation to a Board meeting held on March 31 
during which the Board had anticipated discussing in executive session complaints brought 
against Ms. Favreau, Chair Burrows 1) failed to provide documentation of the complaints; 2) did 
not allow discussion of the complaints prior to a motion and vote to hire an outside investigator; 
3) did not allow Ms. Favreau to defend herself against the complaints; and 4) did not allow Ms. 
Favreau access to her legal counsel during the meeting. Finally, the complaint also alleges that 
the notice for the March 31 meeting was insufficient where it did not specify that the Board 
would vote to engage an independent investigator to investigate the complaints made against Ms. 
Favreau.
3 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 At the time of the events at issue here, Mr. Burrows served as chair of the Board. For the sake of clarity, we refer 
to Mr. Burrows as chair throughout this letter. 
3 The Complainant raises additional concerns in the request for further review. To the extent these were intended as 
additional allegations, we decline to review them where they were first raised in  the request for further review and 
not in an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board. See OML 2021-99; OML 2020-3; OML Declination 4-
22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). Additionally, several of the concerns, even if true, would not 
constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 2-14-2025 (Freetown-Lakeville Regional 
School Committee); OML Declination 1-25-2016 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed a March 26 letter from 
Chair Burrows to Ms. Favreau, the notice for the March 31 meeting, and a video recording of the 
March 31 meeting.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. By letter dated March 26, Chair Burrows informed 
Ms. Favreau that the Board would hold a meeting on March 31 at 6:00 p.m. during which the 
Board intended to discuss in executive session complaints brought against Ms. Favreau. The 
letter also acknowledged Ms. Favreau’s request to have representation present during the 
executive session. 
 
On March 27, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 31. Among 
other topics, the notice included the following executive session topic:  
 
Executive Session Pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (1) to discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, 
of an individual, or to discuss  the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual – 
Conduct of Select Board Member Dina Favreau. 
 
 The March 31 meeting was held as scheduled. When the Board reached the executive 
session topic, Chair Burrows explained the purpose for the discussion and that he had been 
informed by legal counsel that afternoon that Ms. Favreau had requested the discussion be held 
in open session rather than executive session; therefore, the Board did not convene in executive 
session and instead held the discussion in open session. Chair Burrows began the discussion by 
asking whether any member had a motion or comment regarding how to proceed. Board member 
Michael Rosa then moved that the Board ask the Assistant Town Manager, along with legal 
counsel, to hire an outside investigator to investigate the claims brought against Ms. Favreau. 
The motion was seconded and discussion ensued among Ms. Favreau, Mr. Rosa, and the Town’s 
labor counsel regarding how the investigation might proceed and whether and how Ms. 
Favreau’s legal counsel could be involved in the process. At the end of this exchange, Ms. 
Favreau asked if her attorney could ask questions that evening. Chair Burrows denied this 
request. After a brief exchange in which Ms. Favreau asked Chair Burrows if he was denying her 
request for advice from her counsel, Chair Burrows called for a vote on the motion and all 
members, including Ms. Favreau, voted in favor of the motion to hire an outside investigator. 
The Board then turned to the next notice topic.  
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
 
4 A video recording of the March 31 meeting may be found at https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/sC8tLrxdhpB-
glnrjAZCtQ9j-SiG_2lw/playlists/10129/media/943263. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To that end, the Open Meeting Law requires that public 
bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are 
required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider 
a topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2018-7; 
OML 2015-35.5 The Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to list all tangential 
topics related to a discussion nor does the Law require a public body to anticipate the course of 
deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); 
OML 2014-127; OML 2020-53; OML 2021-22. We have explained that, in general, it is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may take action and hold a vote following discussion 
of a topic listed on the meeting notice; the Open Meeting Law does not require that the notice 
specifically indicate the possibility of a vote or action. See OML 2022-239; OML 2021-153; 
OML 2016-160; OML 2015-66. 
 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to convene in executive session for any of 
ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose is “. . . to discuss the discipline 
or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff 
member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). The Law requires that the public 
body provide the individual to be discussed with written notification at least 48 hours in advance 
of the meeting. Id. The Law also provides that the public body must hold the discussion in open 
session instead of executive session if the subject of the discussion so requests. Id. If the 
discussion is held in executive session, then the subject of the discussion has several rights, 
including the right to be present; the right to have counsel or a representative present to advise 
the individual, but not for the purpose of actively participating in the session; the right to speak 
on their own behalf; and the right to cause an independent recording or transcription to be made. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (a)(1)(i-iv). 
 
First, with respect to the allegation that Chair Burrows failed to provide documentation of 
the complaints against Ms. Favreau, we find no violation. The Open Meeting Law does not 
require that the Board provide Ms. Favreau with a copy of the complaints to be discussed. 
Rather, the Law requires that the Board provide her with 48 hours’ written notice of the Board’s 
intent to hold an executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss complaints brought against her, 
which the Board did. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2014-124.
6  
 
Second, with respect to the allegation that Chair Burrows did not allow discussion of the 
complaints prior to a motion and vote to hire an outside investigator, we find no violation. The 
Open Meeting Law does not require a public body to discuss any topic, nor does it establish 
requirements for the level of detail a public body’s discussions must include. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25; OML 2023-219; OML 2014-86; OML 2013-64.  
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 We take no position on whether any other law or provision required the Board to provide Ms. Favreau with 
additional information regarding the nature of the complaints brought against her.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Third, with respect to the allegations that Chair Burrows did not allow Ms. Favreau to 
defend herself against the complaints and did not allow her to access counsel during the March 
31 meeting, we find no violation. Although the Open Meeting Law provides that when a public 
body convenes in executive session under Purpose 1 the individual being discussed has a right to 
speak on their own behalf and a right to have counsel or a representative present for purposes of 
advising the individual, the March 31 discussion was not held in executive session, but rather, at 
the request of Ms. Favreau, was held in open session. An individual who would have the rights 
afforded under Purpose 1 does not have analogous rights when the discussion is instead held in 
open session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“If an executive session is held, such individual shall 
have the following rights . . . .”) (emphasis added); see also OML 2024-176; OML 2017-125. 
Additionally, we note that Ms. Favreau’s request during the March 31 meeting was for her 
counsel to actively participate in the meeting by asking questions. Even if the discussion had 
been held in executive session, the Open Meeting Law would not have provided Ms. Favreau the 
right to have her counsel actively participate in the session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a)(1) 
(“[S]uch individual shall have the following rights: . . . to have counsel or a representative of his 
own choosing present and attending for the purpose of advising the individual and not for the 
purpose of active participation in the executive session.”) (emphasis added); 20(g) (“No person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at 
the request of the chair, be silent.”).
7 
 
Finally, with respect to the allegation that the notice for the March 31 meeting was 
insufficient where it did not indicate that the Board would vote to authorize an investigation into 
the complaints brought against Ms. Favreau, we also find no violation. It is reasonably 
foreseeable that when a public body meets to consider complaints against an individual, the 
public body may vote to take some action with respect to the complaints. See OML 2022-239; 
OML 2021-153; OML 2016-160; OML 2015-66. Therefore, the notice topic indicating that the 
Board would discuss complaints against Ms. Favreau was sufficient. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
7 We take no position on whether any other law or provision may have afforded Ms. Favreau such a right.  
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
cc: Jillian Pavidis, Chair, Billerica Select Board (via email: jpavidis@town.billerica.ma.us)  
 Donna McCoy, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@town.billerica.ma.us) 
Dina Favreau (via email: dfavreau@town.billerica.ma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 