===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
   
 
August 2, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 149 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Kenneth M. O’Brien 
Chair, Mendon Board of Assessors 
kobrien@uxbridge-ma.gov
 
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Principal Assessor O’Brien, 
This office received a complaint from Mark Reil on July 11, 2022,1 alleging that the 
Mendon Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on May 27, and the Board responded by 
letter dated June 30.2 In the complaint, Mr. Reil alleges that the Board improperly deliberated via 
email outside of an open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the May 25 
emails at issue and the notice and minutes of the June 6 Board meeting.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On May 25, Principal Assessor Jean M. Berthold emailed 
Board Chair Kenneth O’Brien, and Board Members Kevin Rudden and Susan Edmonds, 
requesting that the Board discuss “the removal of the Principal Assessor's position from the 
Town Hall Union” with the Mendon Select Board. Chair O’Brien subsequently responded via 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates are in 2022.  
2 We note that the Board did not respond to the complaint in the timeframe required by the Open Meeting Law. We remind 
the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must 
meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description of 
any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
  
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
email, stating, “I agree with this and am willing to present this at a [Select Board] meeting.” 
Board member Edmonds also responded via email, stating, “I agree to remove the Prin[c]ipal 
Assessor from the Union.”  
On June 1, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 6. The notice for the 
June 6 meeting included the item “Discuss request to withdraw the position of Principal Assessor 
from Town Hall Union.” During the June 6 meeting, the Board discussed the reason the Principal 
Assessor was originally placed in the Town Hall Union before voting unanimously to 
temporarily postpone the decision to remove the position of Principal Assessor from the Town 
Hall Union.  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be noticed and that 
meetings be open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body's jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction ....” G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 18. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of 
the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A public body may not use a non-member, such as a staff 
member, to facilitate communication on matters that the public body should otherwise save for 
discussion at an open meeting. See Dist. Atty. for the Northern Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 
455 Mass. 561, 569-71 (2009); OML 2013-76; OML 2018-43.3  Furthermore, a one-way 
communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body's 
jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no other 
public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. 
We find that on May 25, a quorum of the Board improperly deliberated via email when 
Chair O’Brien and Member Edmonds emailed the entire Board regarding the decision to remove 
the Principal Assessor position from the Town Hall Union. The Board argues that it did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law because “there was no back and forth discussion.” We disagree. 
Emailing a quorum of the Board directly regarding public business within the Board’s 
jurisdiction violates the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2022-3. Therefore, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a properly noticed meeting. 
The Board also asserts that it did not violate the Open Meeting Law because it discussed 
the de
cision to remove the Principal Assessor from the Town Hall Union during the June 6 
meeting. Although we commend the Board for taking this remedial action, we find that this 
action was insufficient to fully remedy the violation.   
We find that discussing the issue at the June 6 Board meeting was insufficient to inform 
the public of the discussions regarding the decision to remove the Principal Assessor position 
from the Town Hall Union. We order the Board to make the emails available to the public, either 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website:  
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-m eeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
by reading them aloud at an open meeting, or by attaching the emails to the minutes of an open 
meeting. See OML 2022-3.   
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email outside of a posted meeting. We order the Board’s immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office 
of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We also order the Board to make the emails available to the public in one of the 
ways described above.  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government.  
 
cc: Mark Reil (v
 ia e-mail: ) 
 Jean Berthold, Mendon Board of Assessors (via e-ma il: JBerthold@mendonma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
