===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
Ellen Grieco, Chair 
Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
September 22, 2014 
OML 2014-116 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Grieco: 
This office received a complaint from George H. Harris, dated August 13, alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the Committee) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint alleges that the Committee has failed to create and maintain 
sufficiently detailed executive session minutes for its June 3, 2013 meeting. Additionally, the 
complaint alleges that those minutes fail to list all documents used at the meeting. The complaint 
was originally filed with the Committee on July 7. After receiving an extension of time from our 
office, the Committee responded in a letter dated July 30.2 
Following our review, resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by creating 
insufficiently detailed executive session minutes. However, we also find that the Committee took 
appropriate remedial action in response to the complaint by amending its minutes to include the 
missing information. 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to "create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Such minutes should contain sufficient detail for a 
reasonable member of the public who did not attend the meeting to read them and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106; OML 2011-55. 
1 Unless otherwise stated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 The executive session minutes were released to the public on June 11, following a request by Mr. Harris. Because 
any deficiencies in those minutes were not reasonably discoverable before that date, we find this complaint is timely. 
===PAGE 2===
The original version of the Committee's June 3, 2013 executive session minutes included 
the topic "Negotiations with WTA," followed by two brief sentences. Following its receipt of 
Mr. Harris' July 7 complaint, the Committee acknowledged during a July 30 meeting that this 
portion of the minutes was deficient. The Committee revised these executive session minutes to 
include a more robust description of the WTA4 negotiations, and approved the revised minutes 
during its July 30 meeting.5 The executive session minutes were also revised on that date to 
include a listing of the documents referenced during the executive session. We find these 
amendments to the executive session minutes are sufficient to address the deficiencies in the 
original minutes, and find that the revised minutes meet the Open Meeting Law's requirements. 
Accordingly, we order no additional relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: George H. Harris, Esq. 
Sincerely, 
— ^ 
Kevin W. Mangatnaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
3 "The School Committee negotiating team updated the.Committee on today's full-day session. Ellen reviewed the 
Matrix and will meet with members of the FinCom to discuss the Matrix." 
4 The Committee uses the acronym "WTA" to refer to the Wayland Teachers Association. The Attorney General's 
Office encourages public bodies to refrain from using abbreviations or acronyms in meeting notices or minutes. See 
OML 2013-46. We do not, however, find that the use of "WTA" violated the Open Meeting Law. 
5 The revised minutes now include, among other things, (i) the identities of the members of the negotiating team, (ii) 
what was discussed in the full-day session, and (iii) the interests of the parties present at the session. 
2 