===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 29, 2019 
OML 2019-137
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq.
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Feodoroff:
This office received a complaint from Susan Munford on March 20, 2019, alleging that 
the Kingston Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 16, 2019, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, on January 23, 2019. The complaint alleges that the Board 
discussed topics that were not listed on the meeting notice for its December 21, 2018, meeting.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed Ms. Munford’s Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the minutes of 
the December 21 meeting, and a video recording of the December 21 meeting.
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id
The meeting notice for the Board’s December 21 meeting included the topic “Economic 
Development.”2 During the Board’s discussion of economic development and grant
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017.
2 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that if the Chair had anticipated that the Board’s discussion of 
“Economic Development” would focus on grant opportunities, rather than a discussion of economic development 
generally, then the meeting notice should have included that additional detail.
o

===PAGE 2===
opportunities, Board Chair Fiore stated that the Town Administrator would be instrumental in 
pursuing grant opportunities, and if pursuing grant opportunities was to be the Town 
Administrator’s top priority, then other matters that fall within the Town Administrator’s 
responsibilities would be delayed. A member of the Board then commented that the Town 
Administrator devotes a large amount of time to responding to Open Meeting Law complaints 
and public records requests, and suggested that the Board re-visit the process for responding to 
those matters, which are time-sensitive because of the short response periods required by law. 
The Town Administrator responded to address the process for pursuing grant opportunities, and 
remarked that his office spends 15-20 hours per week to fulfill public records requests from Ms. 
Munford and a second individual, which he noted “are their absolute right.” A Board member 
remarked that the town’s resources would be better spent by the Town Administrator pursuing 
grant opportunities during the month of January. For the remainder of the meeting, the Board 
and the Town Administrator discussed the types of grants available, strategies for pursuing them, 
and uses for grant funds. The remarks regarding time spent responding to Open Meeting Law 
and Public Records Law matters comprised a very brief portion of an otherwise lengthy 
discussion regarding economic development and grant opportunities.
We find that the remarks regarding the Town Administrator’s time spent responding to 
Open Meeting Law complaints and public records requests, and the Town Administrator’s 
mention of Ms. Munford specifically, naturally flowed from the Board’s consideration of the 
posted agenda topic “Economic Development,” as the focus of the discussion was the need for 
the Town Administrator to devote his time during the coming month to pursuing grant 
opportunities for the town. See OML 2016-150; OML 2014-132; OML 2013-145.3 The Open 
Meeting Law does not require a public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the 
outcome of a discussion, only that it identify the anticipated discussion topic with sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-127; OML 2014-58; OML 2014-38. We 
therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Susan Munford
Kingston Board of Selectmen
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website at https://www.mass.gov/the- 
open-meeting-law
2

===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
