===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 11,2018 
Notice: 
This determination was issued by the Attorney General prior to the April 5, 2018, decision of the 
Supreme Judicial Court in the matter of Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, No. SJC-
12353, which may supersede this determination to the extent that the two are inconsistent. In 
Boelter, the Court concluded that the Wayland Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting 
Law by distributing to its members employee performance evaluations that included opinions of 
individual Board members. Communication of these opinions by email constituted 
"deliberation" by the Board members that may occur only during a properly noticed meeting. 
This decision establishes that public body members may not send opinions to each other, 
including individual employee performance evaluations for aggregation, outside of a noticed 
meeting. After April 5, 2018, the Division of Open Government will adhere to the Court's 
holding in Boelter in its enforcement of the Open Meeting Law. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Director, Division of Open Government 
O 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
March 27, 2018 
OML 2018-38 
Katherine McNamara Feodoroff, Esq. 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff; 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan on May 16 alleging that the 
Ashland Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 19, and you responded, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 8. The complaint alleges that: i) the Board posted an 
insufficiently detailed notice for its April 19 meeting; ii) the April 19 meeting was not accessible 
to the public; iii) the Board failed to identify an open session portion of the meeting in addition 
to an anticipated executive session; iv) the Board entered executive session for an improper 
purpose; and v) the Board conducted the evaluation of the Town Manager outside of a properly 
posted meeting.2 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by posting a meeting notice that 
provided insufficient detail. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the 
other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the original and revised notices of, and open and executive session 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 The complainant also alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by telling him to "just file another 
complaint." Even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we decline 
to review it. The complainant additionally alleges, in his May 16 complaint filed with this office, that the Board 
failed to provide a copy of open session minutes from its April 19 meeting. We decline to review this allegation as 
well because, after a careful review, we find that it was not included within the April 19 complaint to the Board and 
the Board has not had an opportunity to respond to it. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). 
O 
===PAGE 3===
minutes from the Board's April 19 meeting, as well as a video recording of that meeting.3 
Finally, we spoke with you by telephone on October 23, and with Board member Joseph 
Magnani by telephone on October 31 and March 20, 2018.4 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On April 13 at 3:45 P.M., the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on Wednesday, April 19 at 7:00 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, 
including Call Meeting to Order, Citizen's Participation, Scheduled Hearings/Appearances, 
Consent Agenda, Old/New Business, Town Manager Reports and Board Reports. Almost each 
one of these topic headings included specific item descriptions that further advised the public of 
the topics to be discussed. Specifically, "Scheduled Hearings/Appearances" included a vicious 
dog hearing and a policy update by Greg Enos; "Consent Agenda" included the acceptance of 
monetary donations for Kid Spot and the appointment of a Firefighter and Intake Specialist; 
"Old/New Business" included Town Manager Evaluation, IMA with Hopkinton and 133 West 
Union Street; and "Town Manager Reports" included Aggregation. 
At 4:59 P.M. on April 13, the Board posted a revised notice. This notice changed the 
time of the April 19 meeting to 6:30 P.M. and included one additional topic: Executive Session -
to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel.5 
At 10:25 A.M. on April 19, the complainant emailed the Board suggesting that certain 
topics on the agenda were insufficiently detailed. At 1:03 P.M. on April 19, the Board posted a 
revised notice clarifying certain of the topics. Specifically, in response to the complainant's 
email, the Board further described the Executive Session as conducting strategy sessions or 
contract negotiations with "the Town Manager;" included an address for the topic "Vicious Dog 
Hearing" under Scheduled Hearings/Appearances; clarified that the topic "IMA with Hopkinton" 
under Old/New Business regarded water distribution; and clarified that the topic "Aggregation" 
under Town Manager Reports pertained to electrical. Unbeknownst to the Board, when this 
revised notice was uploaded to the Town website, the time of the meeting listed on the notice 
changed to 12:00 A.M. The Board learned at the April 19 meeting that the posted time on this 
revised notice was incorrect, and at 7:05 P.M. posted a revised notice correcting the time of the 
meeting to 6:30 P.M. 
The April 19 meeting was held as planned. Approximately five to ten minutes before the 
start of the meeting, the complainant approached the Board and requested information but the 
Board did not understand the complainant's request. Assistant Town Manager Jenn Ball 
intervened suggesting that the complainant may be looking for a copy of the original notice, 
which she had in her office. The complainant continued to speak to the Board. Finally, Chair 
3 The video recording is available at http://wacatv.com/show/?ShowID=2122. 
4 Mr. Magnani was Chair of the Board at the time of the April 19 meeting. 
5 The notice listed the Executive Session pursuant to "G.L. c. 30A sec. 21(a)(6)." We note that Purpose 6 allows a 
public body to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property. Purpose 2 allows a public body to 
conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel. We caution the Board to review the notice before posting to ensure that any reference to an 
executive session purpose is accurately reflected on the notice. 
2 
===PAGE 4===
Joseph Magnani advised the complainant that he needed to leave because the Board was about to 
convene the meeting. The complainant eventually left the meeting room with Assistant Town 
Manager Ball prior to the Board convening in executive session. 
Chair Magnani called the public meeting to order, and the Board moved to enter into 
executive session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for contract negotiations with the 
Town Manager. The Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive 
session. The Board announced that it would reconvene in open session following the executive 
session. Because the Board has not publicly released the minutes of the executive session, we do 
not recount their content in detail here. However, we note that during the executive session, the 
Board reviewed the Town Manager's contract and discussed whether to extend his contract or 
increase his salary. 
The Board then reconvened in open session and held two public hearings; received an 
update on the Employee Handbook from Human Resource Director Greg Rnos; discussed an 
inter-municipal water distribution agreement; read the Town Meeting Warrant; discussed a 
housing development at 133 West Union Street; and received reports from the Town Manager 
regarding electrical aggregation and a housing production plan. Finally, the Board expressed 
comments, recognized and thanked the DPW, and notified residents of upcoming events. 
The Board also discussed the Town Manager's evaluation and extended his contract. 
Prior to the meeting, each Board member was provided with a "Town Manager Evaluation 
Form." This form contained ten categories with specific factors listed within each category; each 
factor contained a rating scale of one (unsatisfactory) to five (outstanding) and the members were 
to check the number that most accurately reflected the level of performance exhibited by the 
Town Manager. For example, the first category for evaluation was "Personal Characteristics;" 
the form then listed five factors reflecting specific attributes such as "Exhibits honest and ethical 
behavior," "Acts in a fair and equitable manner," etc. The forms were provided to Chair 
Magnani for numerical compilation. Chair Magnani then created a two-page "Evaluation 
Statement," which he read during the April 19 meeting, reflecting comments made by individual 
Board members on the evaluation forms, as well as his own thoughts about the Town Manager's 
performance. Finally, each Board member expressed his or her own thoughts on the Town 
Manager's performance during the meeting. 
In response to this complaint, the Board listed all topics from the April 19 meeting on its 
April 24 meeting notice and discussed those topics during the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Provide Sufficient Notice Regarding the Executive Session 
Topic but Did Enter Executive Session for a Proper Purpose. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
3 
===PAGE 5===
purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Way land. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
A public body may enter executive session "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation 
for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract 
negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) ("Purpose 2"). When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 2, a public body must identify the nonunion personnel 
with whom it will be negotiating, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy. 
See OML 2017-53; OML 2016-43; OML 2013-151.6 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's April 19 executive session and that 
the executive session topic listed on the April 19 notice lacked sufficient detail. While we 
commend the Board for amending the agenda and identifying the Town Manager as the 
nonunion personnel with whom it would be negotiating, we conclude that the topic as listed on 
the original notice should have included the Town Manager as the Board does not suggest that 
inclusion of such information would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. 
See OML 2016-90; OML 2011-11. In fact, the chair announced at the meeting that the Board 
was convening in executive session to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel, 
"specifically the Town Manager." We conclude, however, that the discussions in executive 
session, which pertained to contract negotiations, fell within a proper statutory purpose. A 
public body may strategize and negotiate with the specific non-union personnel in executive 
session under Purpose 2. See OML 2011-56. However, the scope of the purpose is limited to 
the discussions, negotiations, and deliberations that occur prior to a vote on a contract. The 
Open Meeting Law does not permit a public body to approve a contract behind closed doors 
where the public cannot witness the agreement. Here, the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by meeting with the Town Manager in executive session to conduct contract 
negotiations because it reconvened in open session to approve the contract terms agreed to in the 
executive session. 
The complaint further alleges that the Board proceeded to enter executive session when it 
was aware that the notice reflected the wrong time of the meeting. Pursuant to the complainant's 
request, the Board revised its notice on the day of the meeting to clarify certain topics. When the 
revised notice was posted to the Town website, the computer changed the time of the meeting to 
12:00 A.M. unbeknownst to the Board. There is no allegation that any member of the public was 
actually mislead or confused by this revised meeting notice. However, we remind the Board to 
review the notice before posting to ensure that the actual time of the meeting is accurately 
reflected on the notice. 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 
===PAGE 6===
II. The Board Did Not Exclude Any Member of the Public from the April 19 
Meeting. 
The complainant alleges that the Board "refused to allow public in meeting for claimed 
vote to enter exec[utive] session." Meetings must be open and accessible to the public, including 
the open session portion of any meeting preceding an executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(b)(1). Several minutes before 6:30 p.m., the complainant approached the Board and asked for 
certain documents. The Assistant Town Manager advised the complainant that she had one of 
the requested documents in her office. However, the complainant continued to talk to the Board 
and Chair Magnani finally told the complainant that he would need to leave. While we 
understand how the statement by the Chair could have been reasonably interpreted by the 
complainant as an indication that he must leave the meeting, we do not believe the Board 
intentionally excluded the complainant or any other member of the public from this portion of 
the meeting. We have been assured that Chair Magnani's statement was simply meant as a 
signal to the complainant that the Board was about to call the meeting to order and he would 
therefore need to step away from the Board. It was not an order to leave the meeting room. 
Therefore, we find no violation of the law. 
III. The Notice Properly Indicated that the Board Would Convene in Open Session 
Prior to Entering Executive Session. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to identify an open session portion of the 
meeting in addition to an anticipated executive session. A public body may enter executive, or 
closed, session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members 
of the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded 
by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(b). Here, the notice for the Board's 
April 19 meeting listed an executive session after the topic "Call Meeting to Order." In addition, 
it was clear that an open session meeting would take place as the full notice included additional 
open session topics. See OML 2015-157; OML 2015-110; OML 2015-105. We therefore find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
IV. The Board Did Not Provide Sufficient Notice Regarding Certain Open Session 
Topics. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. BOA, § 20(b). The notice must be printed in a legible, easily 
understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. Id. The list of topics 
shall have "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at 
the meeting." 940 CMR 29.0B(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated 
nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. 
The complaint alleges that several topics on the April 19 meeting notice lacked sufficient 
detail, and that certain topics were revised within 48 hours of the meeting. On the morning of 
5 
===PAGE 7===
the meeting, the complainant emailed the Board suggesting that certain topics were insufficiently 
detailed. At the complainant's request, the Board revised several topics. We find that "133 West 
Union Street" listed under Old/New Business was sufficiently specific to advise the public of the 
topic to be discussed especially where the West Union Street project had recently been discussed 
at a public hearing. The Committee need not list each and every detail about a topic in order to 
comply with the law's requirements. See OML 2014-122. With respect to the topic "Greg Enos 
- Policy Update" listed under Scheduled Hearings/Appearances, we understand that Greg Enos 
is the Ashland Human Resources Director and would therefore only discuss policy relating to 
personnel issues. While members of the Ashland community might be familiar with this town 
employee, other members of the public may not and we recommend the Board provide additional 
detail in the future. 
However, we find that certain other topics were not sufficiently detailed, including 
"Vicious Dog Hearing" which should have included an address, "IMA with Hopkinton" which 
contained an acronym not widely understood by members of the public, and "Aggregation" 
which was not adequately defined. We commend the Board's efforts to provide the public with 
additional detail on its revised agenda within the 48 hours before the meeting. However, all 
anticipated topics must be posted in sufficient detail on the notice at least 48 hours before the 
meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). Adding more 
detailed summaries within the 48 hours before the meeting to topics which, on their face, lack 
enough detail cannot render a topic sufficiently detailed. That information must be available to 
the public at least 48 hours before the meeting. See 2017-156. 
With respect to the list of donations for Kid Spot, we find that a topic listed under 
"Consent Agenda," which does not require the Board's discussion and/or approval, but is 
listed instead as a perfunctory administrative task, does not need to include the specific names of 
the donors. See OML 2018-22. However, we find that the Board should have included the 
names of the individuals who were to be appointed that evening. Although the appointments 
were listed on the notice under the heading "Consent Agenda," the Board removed this specific 
topic from the "Consent Agenda" during the meeting so that it could discuss the actual 
appointments. To the extent that the Board is aware of the identity of the individuals for whom 
they are considering appointments during the meeting, it should take the additional step of listing 
their names in the meeting notice. See OML 2011 -11. 
V. The Board Properly Conducted an Evaluation of the Town Manager. 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently. 
To that end, the law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. All deliberations must occur 
during a meeting. Id Performance evaluations and discussions of an employee's professional 
competence must occur in open session. G. L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); District Attorney for the 
Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009). 
6 
===PAGE 8===
The Attorney General has provided guidance regarding performance evaluations by 
public bodies stating that members of a public body may individually create evaluations, and 
then submit them to an individual to aggregate into a master evaluation document to be discussed 
at an open meeting. Ideally, members of the public body should submit their evaluations for 
compilation to someone who is not a member of the public body, for example, an 
administrative assistant. If this is not a practical option, then the chair or other designated 
public body member may compile the evaluations. However, once the individual 
evaluations are submitted for aggregation there should be no deliberation among members of the 
public body regarding the content of the evaluations outside of an open meeting, whether in 
person or over email. See AGO FAQ on Public bodies, Quorum, and Deliberation.7 
The Board followed this directive when the members submitted their individual 
evaluations of the Town Manager to Chair Magnani. See OML 2013-5.8 Chair Magnani then 
tallied the scores from each performance evaluation form. On his own, he created a two-page 
"Evaluation Statement" summarizing comments submitted by Board members from the 
performance evaluation forms and including his own thoughts about the performance of the 
Town Manager. This statement was read during the April 19 meeting. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
providing insufficient detail in its April 19 meeting notice. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We commend the Board for reposting and 
considering its April 19 discussion topics at a later meeting in response to this complaint. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
7 https://www.mass.gov/service-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law-public-bodies-
quorum-and. 
8 We note that the performance evaluation of a Town Administrator that involves the distribution of documents to a 
quorum of a public body that may include opinions expressed by public body members is an issue under 
consideration by the Supreme Judicial Court in Boelter v. Wavland Board of Selectmen. No. SJC-12353, argued 
December 5, 2017. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
7 
===PAGE 9===
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
8 