===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 3, 2022 
 
OML 2022 – 183  
 
 
Kendra Foley 
Chair, Watertown School Committee  
30 Common Street 
Watertown, MA 02472 
 
By email only: kendra.foley@watertown.k12.ma.us 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Foley: 
 
This office received a complaint from Meghan O’Connell on May 15, 2022, alleging that 
the Watertown School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 8, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter on July 7.2  The complaint alleges that 
the Committee meeting held on March 7 was not accessible.   
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the Committee 
meeting held on March 7, as well as a video recording of that meeting.
3  We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way alleged.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
2 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires, that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  
3 A video recording of the Committee meeting held on March 7 is available at:  
http://vodwcatv.org/CablecastPublicSite/show/1583?channel=3&seekto=346 .  
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity 
to be physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body.  See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189.
4  Public 
bodies are permitted to meet entirely remotely, provided that the public body provides adequate, 
alternative means of public access to the deliberations of the public body while those 
deliberations are occurring.  See St. 2021, c. 20, § 20 (Act Extending Certain COVID-19 
Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency); Governor’s Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020).  Public bodies may 
provide the public with “adequate, alternative” access to meetings instead of providing in-person 
access, but public bodies are not required to provide “adequate, alternative” access if in-person 
access is provided.  Although, to ensure the greatest transparency and consistent with the goals 
of the Open Meeting Law, we encourage public bodies to continue to offer the public alternative 
access to meetings through remote means.  
 
Here
, the Committee held a meeting on March 7.  The meeting was held at the Cunniff 
Elementary School and six of the seven Committee members met in that physical meeting 
location.  One Committee member participated remotely and the meeting was broadcast on local 
cable channels, as well as online via Zoom and the Watertown Government Access Channel.  All 
Committee members and members of the public who were present at the physical meeting 
location wore masks.   
 
During the March 7 meeting, the Superintendent gave a presentation on masking in 
schools and recommended that wearing masks in school be optional because of the significant 
decline in Covid cases.  The Committee then heard from members of the public and a 
representative of the Special Education Parent Advisory Council, after which the Committee 
unanimously voted by roll call vote to approve the mask policy recommended by the 
Superintendent.  The Committee also voted by roll call to not participate in the school choice 
program, approve the program of studies for the school year, the school calendar, donations, one 
set of meeting minutes, and several subcommittee reports.  The Committee then received updates 
on changes to the student handbook, student enrollment and class sizes, the school budget and 
construction designs for a new high school. 
 
The complaint alleges that this meeting was inaccessible because the public was unable 
to hear por
tions of the discussions that occurred.  Although the masks muffled the 
Superintendent’s voice and certain of the Committee members’ voices, we find that they all 
consciously made an effort to raise their voices throughout the meeting when notified by the 
public that they could not be heard.  Moreover, the Superintendent used a microphone during her 
presentation and the microphone was thereafter passed around to other Committee members 
when asked to speak louder.  Although we acknowledge that brief portions of the comments 
were difficult to understand, overall we find that the discussions were audible and 
understandable.  As such, we find that the meeting was accessible and the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-160 (finding that audio of remote meeting was 
otherwise clear and members of the public could still meaningfully follow the proceedings as 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website: https://www msss.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
they occurred even though video cut out many times during the one hour and forty-five-minute 
meeting); OML 2018-20 (finding that meeting was accessible even though public body members 
were speaking in softer voices at the beginning of the meeting where members consciously made 
an effort to raise their voices throughout the remainder of the meeting when notified by the 
public that they could not be heard).       
 
Because one Committee member participated remotely, any votes taken during the March 
7 meet
ing must be conducted by roll call vote.  See 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c) (Attorney General’s 
Regulations require that, “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates 
remotely must be by roll call vote,” even unanimous votes); see also OML 2022-152; OML 
2016-132; OML 2015-145.  Here, all votes were conducted by roll call.  However, the actual 
instance of calling off the list of Committee members’ names for the roll call vote was difficult 
to hear at times.  Nonetheless, we find that the individual Committee members’ votes were 
clearly audible and thus the public could still meaningfully follow the proceedings as they 
occurred.  See OML 2021-160.  
 
Although not raised in the complaint, we remind the Committee that meeting minutes 
should re
cord a roll call vote by documenting the vote of each public body member by name for 
maximum accuracy and clarity.  See OML 2021-196.  Even unanimous votes should be recorded 
by roll call in the minutes.  See OML 2015-131; OML 2013-195.    
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Meghan O’Connell – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
