===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKXEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
February 18, 2014 
OML 2014-15 
Richard Barry, Chair 
Prudential Committee 
Cotuit Fire District 
P.O. Box 1475 
Cotuit, MA 02635 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Barry: 
This office received a complaint from Barbara Trainor-Tessier (the complainant), dated 
December 5, 2013, alleging that the Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the Committee) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with 
the Committee on or about November 4, 2013. The Committee did not respond to that 
complaint. The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to respond to an October 28, 2013 
request for meeting minutes within ten days. 
We reviewed the November 4, 2013 complaint and the December 5, 2013 request for 
further review. Additionally, we reviewed email correspondence between the complainant and 
Cotuit Fire District Clerk Charles Eager dating from August 21, 2013 to October 3, 2013. 
Finally, we spoke by telephone with the complainant, with District Clerk Eager, and with Laurie 
Hadley, a member of the Committee. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to provide open session meeting minutes within ten days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22(c). Additionally, we find that the Committee violated the Law by failing to approve its 
minutes in a timely manner. Id Finally, we find that the Committee violated the Law by failing 
to respond to the complaint and to provide this office a copy of the response. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b). 
FACTS 
On August 18, 2013, the complainant requested "all the minutes from Prudential 
Committee meetings from September of 2012 thru June 2013." The Committee provided copies 
O 
===PAGE 2===
of its July 2012 and August 2012 minutes but not the requested minutes. The complainant 
renewed her request on October 2, 2013 and District Clerk Eager replied that he did not have a 
timeframe for a response. At the October 28, 2013 meeting of the Committee, the complainant 
again requested the minutes and District Clerk Eager informed her that, although the Committee 
did meet during the identified time period, no minutes existed for those meetings. This 
complaint followed on or about November 4, 2013. Subsequently, the Committee prepared 
minutes for the meetings in question and approved them in January 2014. The Committee 
subsequently provided the minutes. 
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies have an obligation to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). These meeting minutes must be 
reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(c). Although the Open Meeting 
Law does not define "timely manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at 
the next meeting, whenever possible. OML 2013-31; OML 2012-91.1 
Furthermore, a public body must respond to a request for minutes within ten days, if the 
minutes exist and whether approved or in draft form. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Additionally, a 
public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within fourteen business days and 
provide our office with a copy of the response. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). This office will grant an 
extension of time for good cause shown. Id 
The Committee did not create and approve minutes for the requested meetings until seven 
to sixteen months after those meetings occurred. We therefore find the creation and approval of 
those minutes to be untimely and a violation. The Committee met regularly during and after the 
period in question but did not create the minutes in question until January 2014. Under any 
analysis, this delay in performing a basic function of a public body's business cuts against the 
purpose of the Open Meeting Law. 
Additionally, we find the Committee clearly violated the law by failing to provide 
meeting minutes within ten days of any of the multiple requests by the complainant. While those 
minutes have since been provided to the complainant, the Committee took at least five months to 
do so. 
Finally, we find the Committee's failure to respond to the complainant's Open Meeting 
Law complaint and to provide this office with a copy of that response a violation. The complaint 
was filed on or about November 4, 2013. The Committee did not respond during the required 
fourteen business day time period, nor did it request an extension of time to respond or otherwise 
communicate with this office about the complaint. We remind the Committee that it must timely 
respond to Open Meeting Law complaints and provide this office with a copy of the response. 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Law, and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. No further 
remedial action is necessary because the Committee has since provided the requested minutes. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Barbara Trainor-Tessier 
Sincerely, . A 
Mark M. Higgins 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 