===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
May 21, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 61 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Jeannine Lopes 
Chair, Fairhaven Board of Health 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Lopes: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jeffrey Mattos on October 23, 2019
1, alleging that 
the Fairhaven Board of Health (the “Board”) and its Chair, Jeannine Lopes2, violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18- 25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about August 19, and the Board responded by letter dated October 30. The complaint alleges that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on July 25 when it discussed and voted to limit the 
number of tobacco licenses in Fairhaven, a topic not listed on the notice for the Board’s July 25 
meeting.  
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law where the Chair did not anticipate 
a discussion at the July 25 meeting of limiting the number of tobacco licenses.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice no later than 48 hours in 
advance of any meeting and to include on the meeting notice “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). On June 27, the 
Board held a meeting at which it discussed a tobacco license application filed by Black Horse 
Vapor. During this discussion, the Board determined that before it could act on the Black Horse 
application, it needed to seek the advice of town counsel regarding the Town’s tobacco license 
cap and the process for reducing tobacco licenses. The Board voted to table its discussion of the 
application and authorized the Health Agent to seek advice from counsel regarding the Board’s 
questions. Thereafter, the Board posted notice for a July 25 meeting that included the topic 
“Black Horse Vapor, 32 Sconticut Neck Road – Tobacco Application.”  
                                                             
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout.  

===PAGE 2===
2   
 The Board discussed the Black Horse application during its July 25 meeting. During this discussion, the Health Agent reported that town counsel had advised that there was one license available for issuance and that the Board could thereafter act to reduce the number of licenses when an establishment did not renew a previously issued license. After the Board voted to approve the Black Horse application, the Chair began to move on to the next item on the notice. At that point, another member of the Board asked if the Board should discuss the process for reducing tobacco licenses then or at a later meeting. The Chair stated that the Board could proceed with the discussion. The Chair explains that she did not anticipate this broader discussion and vote regarding whether and how to reduce tobacco licenses going forward. Rather, because the Chair was aware before the July 25 meeting that a license was available, the Chair anticipated that the Board would simply vote on whether or not to issue that particular license. After a review of the video recordings of the June 27 and July 25 meetings, discussion with the Chair, and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary,3 we credit the Chair’s account that a broader discussion of whether and how to reduce tobacco licenses was unanticipated for the July 25 meeting. See OML 2019-26; OML 2017-2 (no violation where the chair did not anticipate discussing a topic at a particular meeting).4    Although we do not find a violation here, the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table unplanned topics that might be of significant interest to the public in order to include them in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See OML 2016-54; OML 2018-119. This gives the public a greater opportunity to understand how public policy decisions are made, furthering the larger aim of the Open Meeting Law. We commend the Board for acting to rescind its July 25 vote at its October 29 meeting in response to the concerns raised in the complaint.  Finally, we remind the Board of its obligation to review Open Meeting Law complaints and respond to the complainant, and to the Attorney General, within 14 business days of receipt of the complaint. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The Open Meeting Law requires that, within 14 business days after receiving an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body shall review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General’s Office a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The body must convene a meeting in order to review the complaint before sending a response or authorizing its legal counsel or another representative to send a response. See OML 2012-90; OML 2011-6.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.                                                                  3 We attempted to reach the Complainant but received no response. 4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jeffrey Mattos (via e-mail: ) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
