===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 29, 2016 
OML 2016-157 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received two complaints from Jeanne Golrick on August 16, alleging that 
the Montague Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaints were originally filed with the Board on July 7, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 1.2 In her complaints, Ms. Golrick 
alleges that the Board failed to post notice of its July 6 meeting at least 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting and failed to create and approve meeting minutes from its Apri 1 13 meeting in a 
timely manner. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice and minutes from the 
Board's July 6 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On July 6, the Board convened a meeting for the purpose 
of holding a hearing on an application for a site plan review. The Town Clerk posted notice of 
the meeting on June 16. The sole topic on the notice was for a public hearing for a site plan 
review for a development project located at a property known as "The Powers Block" at 33 
Bridge Street in Millers Falls. During the meeting, the Board held the hearing and approved 
the application. 
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 We granted the Board's request for an extension to respond until August 3. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
The Board generally meets once per month. On July 27, the Board approved minutes 
from its April 13 meeting. The Board had planned to approve the minutes during the July 6 
meeting, but decided not to proceed as the approval of the minutes was not listed as a topic on 
the meeting notice. Aside from the July 6 meeting, the Board had two other opportunities to 
approve the minutes during its meetings held on May 11 and June 29. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, "[e]xcept in an emergency,, .a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The notice must be "printed in a legible, 
easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. 
The complainant alleges that the Board's July 6 meeting notice failed to include all of 
the required elements. The Board identified the July 6 meeting notice as a "Notice of Public 
Hearing" for the site plan review of the Powers Block project, which was the sole topic 
discussed during the meeting. The Open Meeting Law's notice posting requirements are 
separate from any notice requirements set forth in any law governing a hearing. We find that 
the notice included all of the required elements under the Open Meeting Law, including the 
date, time, and place of the meeting as well as the listing of the sole anticipated topic. See G.L, 
c. 30A, § 20(b). Accordingly, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In addition, we find that the Board approved its April 13 meeting minutes in a timely 
manner. Public bodies have an obligation to "create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings." G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(a). These meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a 
timely manner. G.L. c, 30A, § 22(c), Although the Open Meeting Law does not define "timely 
manner," we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the next meeting, whenever 
possible. See OML 2014-15; OML 2012-91.3 The Board approved the minutes on July 27, 
Prior to this meeting, the Board had met three other times, which included the July 6 meeting 
during which it had planned to approve the minutes but decided not to proceed as the approval 
of the minutes was not a topic listed on the meeting notice. We find that the Board's efforts to 
approve the minutes within four meetings was appropriate and complied with the law's 
timeliness requirement. See OML 2016-148. Accordingly, we find no violation. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jeanne Golrick 
Montague Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 