===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
March 13, 2020
OML 2020 - 39
Katherine Feodoroff, Esq.
Mead, Talerman & Costa LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Feodoroff:
This office received two complaints from Stephen Morgan, on October 1, 2019, alleging 
that the Ashland Development Liaison Group (the “Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Group on August 22 and 
September 9, respectively, and you responded by letters dated September 19.2 In his complaints, 
Mr. Morgan alleges that: (1) the Town failed to provide meeting minutes and notices for the 
Group upon Mr. Morgan’s request, (2) the Group’s meeting minutes are insufficiently detailed,
(3) the Group has posted its notices in a confusing manner, or failed to post them altogether, and
(4) the Group discussed a topic that was not included on the notice for its August 28 meeting.3
Following our review, we find that the Group violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to post notice for its April 10 and May 14 meeting; failing to post subsequent notices in an easily 
accessible manner; and failing to create sufficiently detailed minutes for its August 28 meeting. 
We do not find that the Group violated the Law in the other ways alleged. Finally, we decline to 
find that the violations were intentional.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the complaints, the Group’s responses and the 
requests for further review. We reviewed the April 10, May 14 and August 28 meeting minutes 
and August 28 meeting notice for the Group. We also reviewed the December 5, 2018, July 10, 
2019, July 24, 2019, and August 7, 2019, Select Board meeting minutes. We corresponded with 
you by email on January 3, 6, 7, 10, 23 and 29, 2020, and February 18, 27 and 28, 2020.
1 The Town generally refers to the Group as the Development Liaison Committee, however, we will refer to it here 
by the name used in the complaints for clarity.
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.
3 The complaints also allege that the Group members did not file Open Meeting Law certifications in a timely 
manner. This allegation was addressed in a previous determination, issued by our office on March 13, 2020. See
OML 2020-39.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Group is a five-member public body, comprised of 
Steve Mitchell, Yolanda Greaves, Dale Buchanan, Michael Herbert and a vacancy.
The Select Board first discussed creating the Group on December 5, 2018.4 At that time, 
Selectman Mitchell explained his idea that creating a new public body would improve 
communication across all town boards and committees involved in development in Ashland. The 
other members of the Select Board were generally supportive of the idea, though Selectman 
Dassoni expressed some reservations. The Select Board then voted unanimously to appoint Steve 
Mitchell and Yolanda Greaves to a working group focused on collaborating on a development 
project with United Group of Companies (UGC). The parameters of the Group, including its 
membership beyond the two Select Board members, were not well defined.
The Group admits that it met on both April 10 and May 14 without complying with the 
Open Meeting Law. The Group states that it was unaware that it was a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. The Group “self-reported” to the Select Board its error in not posting notice 
or creating meeting minutes for these two meetings, which the Select Board discussed at a July 
24 meeting. On August 7, the Select Board unanimously voted to re-create the Group and 
appoint Steve Mitchell and Yolanda Greaves as members. The Group asserts that Michael 
Herbert was appointed as a member of the Group due to his position as Town Manager.
On August 22, Mr. Morgan filed his first Open Meeting Law complaint.
On August 26 at approximately noon, the Group posted notice for a meeting scheduled to 
take place at 3:00 p.m. on August 28. The notice contained one topic, “Review and Vote on 
Previous Meeting Minutes.” The Group met as planned on August 28. Although the minutes are 
sparse, the Group informed us that the discussion included the approval of the previous minutes, 
acknowledgement of the Group’s violation of the Open Meeting Law for failing to create 
minutes, the remedial action taken by the Select Board, and how to ensure the Group’s 
compliance with the Law in the future.
On September 9, Mr. Morgan filed his second Open Meeting Law complaint.
DISCUSSION
I. The Complainant’s Request for Minutes Did Not Fall Under the Open Meeting Law.
A request for meeting minutes under the Open Meeting Law must be made to the public 
body. The Open Meeting Law requires that “[mjinutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). Under the Open Meeting Law, a public body has 10 calendar days 
from the date a request is received to provide a response. If minutes do not yet exist at the time
4 When asked how Mr. Buchanan was appointed to the Group, counsel referred us to Planning Board minutes from 
two years prior, June 22, 2017, in which the Planning Board unanimously appointed Dale Buchanan and Michael 
Mokey to a proposed “Planning Development Liaison Committee” which was under discussion by the Board of 
Selectmen. To the extent that the complaints allege the Development Liaison Group’s members were not properly 
appointed, this allegation falls outside of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to review it.
2

===PAGE 3===
of a request, the public body is still required to respond to the request within 10 calendar days 
with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either approved or draft form. 
The Public Records Law, on the other hand, allows 10 business days for responding to requests 
for records.
We have stated that a request for minutes that is directed to a public body generally will 
fall within the Open Meeting Law. A request for minutes that is directed to a clerk or other 
employee serving as Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law. See 
OML 2018-32; OML 2019-68.5 Here, Mr. Morgan sent his request for the Group’s meeting 
minutes to the Town Manager through a public records request form. The request was not 
directed to the Group nor did Mr. Morgan ask that the request be forwarded to the Group. We 
therefore find that the request for meeting minutes did not fall under the Open Meeting Law,
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c), (g)(2), and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019- 
125.
II. The Group Failed to Create Sufficiently Detailed Minutes for its August 28 Meeting.
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See 
OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and the 
minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 2012-29.
Here, the Group’s meeting minutes for its August 28 meeting fall far short of the 
accuracy requirement of the Open Meeting Law. The minutes generally list topics that were 
discussed, without any summary of the discussion. For example, the minutes state that the Group 
“[djiscussed OML violation that was presented to the town” and “[djiscussed next steps [for the 
Group] and what other boards are doing.” The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes 
include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the 
Law requires that the minutes summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2019-167. 
Furthermore, the minutes from the August 28 meeting also contain errors which should be 
corrected. Specially, the minutes list four members in attendance, but all votes are noted as 3-0. 
The minutes also refer to an August 18 meeting which did not take place. We therefore find that 
the Group violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to draft and approve accurate minutes for 
its August 28 meeting. On the other hand, we find that the April 10 and May 14 minutes satisfy 
the minimum requirements of the Open Meeting Law and therefore find no violation with respect 
to the accuracy of those minutes.
5 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
3

===PAGE 4===
III. The Group Failed to Post Notice for its April 10 and May 14 Meetings and Failed to Post
Subsequent Notices in an Easily Accessible Manner.
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For local public bodies, 
notice shall be filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the 
public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located. Id. at 
§ 20(c). A municipality may designate a website as an alternative notice posting location for all 
public bodies within the municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The list of topics shall have “sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable 
member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public 
body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35. The date and time that the notice is posted must be 
conspicuously recorded on or with the notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d).
The complaints allege that the Group failed to post notice for its April 10 and May 14 
meetings. The Group concedes that it failed to post notice of these meetings, as the Group was 
not aware that it was a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. We agree and find that the 
Group violated the Open Meeting Law because it failed to post notice for its meetings held on 
April 10 and May 14.
In addition, the complaints also allege that even after the Group began posting its meeting 
notices, the Group posted its notices in a confusing manner. The Town’s website contains an 
“Agenda Center” page. The Group’s listed some of its notices under the Board of Selectmen and 
some under its own heading on the “Agenda Center.” If a municipality adopts its municipal 
website as the official method of notice posting, as Ashland does, that website should include a 
page where all public body meeting notices can be located in order that members of the public 
can easily access notices. See 940 C.M.R. 29.03(2)(b); OML 2018-53. Here, since some of the 
Group’s meeting notices were posted under its own name, and others were posted under the 
Board of Selectmen, we find that members of the public could not easily locate and access its 
meeting notices, violating the Open Meeting Law.
IV. The August 28 Meeting Discussion Flowed Naturally from the Noticed Agenda Item.
The Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b), states in relevant part that, “a public body 
shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting ... Notice shall be 
printed in a legible, easily understandable format and shall contain the date, time and place of 
such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.” Public bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2017-186. Where a 
public body’s discussion, including a vote, naturally flows from its consideration of the posted
4

===PAGE 5===
agenda topic, the notice is sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
See OML 2018-14; OML 2014-44.
The complaints allege that the Group discussed his Open Meeting Law complaint at its 
August 28 meeting, though that topic was not included on the meeting notice. On August 26 at 
approximately noon, the Group posted notice for a meeting to be held at 3:00 p.m. on August 
28. The noticed contained one topic: “Review and Vote on Previous Meeting Minutes.” The 
Group met as planned on August 28. Although the minutes are sparse, as discussed above, the 
Group informed us that the discussion included the approval of the previous meeting minutes, 
acknowledgement of the Group’s violation of the Open Meeting Law for failing to create 
minutes, the remedial action taken by the Select Board, and how to ensure the Group’s 
compliance with the Law in the future. We conclude that the discussion of the Group’s Open 
Meeting Law violation naturally flowed from the noticed meeting topic. Accordingly, we find 
no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
V. We Decline to Find the Group’s Violations of the Open Meeting Law to be Intentional.
Finally, we must determine whether the Group’s violations were, as the complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates 
the Open Meeting Law. Id- Here, although some of the Group’s actions were improper, we find 
that the Group sincerely, although incorrectly, believed that the Group was not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-40; OML 2016-169. We therefore decline to 
find an intentional violation.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice for its April 10 and May 14 meeting, posting other meeting notices in 
varying locations, and failing to create sufficiently detailed minutes for its August 28 meeting. 
We decline to find that the violations were intentional.
We order the Group’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and 
caution the Group that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.
Further, we order the Group, within 30 days of receipt of this letter, to revise its minutes 
for its August 28 meeting to include a sufficient level of detail, and to certify to our office that it 
has done so.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Group. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
5

===PAGE 6===
Sincerely,
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Stephen Morgan
Ashland Development Liaison Group
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6
