===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 6, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 105 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexander Castro, Esq.  
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC  
Ashland Town Counsel  
  
 
Jennifer King, Esq. 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
Counsel, Ashland School Committee  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorneys Castro and King: 
This office received three complaints from Stephen Morgan. The first complaint is dated 
August 24, 2021,1 and alleges that the Ashland Select Board (the “Board”) and the Ashland 
School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of 
a meeting to draft a letter to the Planning Board regarding the Mindess School Building Project.2 
The Board responded to the complaint by letter dated September 15. The second complaint is 
dated September 22 and alleges that the Committee failed to respond to the first complaint. The 
Committee responded to the first and second complaints by letter dated November 3. Finally, the 
third complaint is dated February 16, 2022, and alleges that the Committee has failed to release 
minutes for an executive session in which it discussed the first complaint. The Committee 
responded to the third complaint by letter dated March 8, 2022. 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 
2 Based on the Board’s response and subsequent communications with Counsel for the Board, we understand that 
the Board reads the first complaint as relating solely to an August 22 email in which the chair of the Committee 
transmitted a letter to the Planning Board. We disagree with this narrow reading and find that the complaint clearly 
alleges that there may have been deliberation outside of a meeting with respect to the creation of the letter in the first 
instance. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when the 
chair of the Board circulated a draft letter to the full Board via email. We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the letter to the Planning Board 
or with respect to release of executive session minutes but did violate the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely respond to the first complaint. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s response, the Committee’s responses, the requests 
for further review, a video recording of the Board’s August 18 meeting,3 and the minutes for the 
Committee’s executive session held on October 21. We also communicated with Counsel for the 
Board and Counsel for the Committee.4 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. Both the Board and the Committee are five-member 
public bodies; therefore, three members of the Board constitute a quorum of the Board and three 
members of the Committee constitute a quorum of the Committee. In August of 2021, at the 
request of the Ashland Town Manager, the Chair of the Committee, Laurie Tosti, and the Chair 
of the Select Board, Joseph Magnani, discussed the Mindess School Building Project (the 
“Building Project”). During this conversation the two chairs decided to collaborate on a letter to 
the Planning Board regarding the Building Project.  
 
Thereafter, the two chairs worked together to draft a letter to the Planning Board. At 
some point Chair Magnani communicated with Committee member Paul Kendall regarding 
background information about the Building Project. This information was then shared with Chair 
Tosti. At another point, Chair Tosti discussed with the Vice Chair of the Committee, Marc Terry, 
the possibility of discussing the letter at an upcoming meeting. Ultimately, Chair Tosti decided 
not to discuss the letter at a meeting and did not further discuss the letter with any members of 
the Committee.   
 
 Chair Magnani, on the other hand, decided to discuss the draft letter with the full Board. 
To that end, he emailed a copy of the draft letter to the full Board on August 18, stating that 
“[t]his is a draft copy of a letter showing support from the two Boards[.] I will copy and paste the 
draft letter from [Chair Tosti] and I[.] Please this is FYI only and do not respond to ALL REPLY 
thank you.” During an open session meeting held approximately an hour after Chair Magnani 
circulated the draft letter, the Board discussed the letter at length.  
 
On August 22, Chair Tosti emailed the letter to the Planning Board, copying Chair 
Magnani on the email. 
 
 On October 21, the Committee convened in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1), and one additional purpose not relevant here, to discuss the Complainant’s August 24 
complaint. The Complainant requested the minutes of the October 21 executive session meeting 
on November 4, 2021, and again on January 21, 2022. The Committee has declined to release the 
 
3 A video recording of the Board’s August 18 meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X4xNSV8B6wE. 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes until the Open Meeting Law complaint that it discussed during the executive session has 
been resolved. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Committee Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Meeting Regarding the Letter to the 
Planning Board. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of public bodies be properly noticed and 
that they be open to members of the public, unless a lawful executive session is convened. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20 (a)-(b). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body 
with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation,” in relevant part, as “an oral or written communication through any medium, 
including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business 
within its jurisdiction.” Id. The definition of “deliberation” includes an exception for the 
“distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For purposes of the Open Meeting Law, 
a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” Id.  
 
We find here that at no point did a quorum of the Committee communicate regarding the 
letter to the Planning Board. Therefore, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the first complaint. 
 
II. The Board Improperly Deliberated Outside of a Meeting When Chair Magnani 
Circulated the Draft Letter to the Full Board Via Email.   
 
As explained above, the Open Meeting Law includes an exception to the definition of 
“deliberation” for the distribution of documents that may be discussed at a meeting. The Board 
asserts that the distribution of the draft letter to the full Board falls within this exception.5 
However, the exception includes an important caveat: “provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed” when such documents are distributed. G.L. c 30A, § 18; see also Boelter v. Board of 
Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233 (2018); OML 2019-75. In addition, the expression of an 
opinion by one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a 
public body is deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2019-75; 
OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. The Board has explained that both Chair Tosti and Chair 
Magnani drafted the letter to the Planning Board together. Therefore, we find that the draft letter 
necessarily contained the opinions of Chair Magnani and should not have been distributed to the 
full Board outside of a properly noticed meeting. We order the Board, if it has not done so 
already, to release to the public Chair Magnani’s August 18 email circulating the draft letter.  
 
5 The Board further asserts in its response that “[t]here is a clear distinction between an opinion expressed in an 
email and an email containing a document [memorializing] opinions that were already expressed at an open 
meeting.” Such a distinction, while accurate, is inapplicable to the facts of this case. Here, Chair Magnani emailed 
the draft letter to the full Board prior to the Board’s discussion of the letter on August 18, and the Board does not 
assert that the opinions contained in the letter had been conveyed during any prior meeting ; therefore, the draft letter 
that Chair Magnani emailed to the Board does not appear to be a memorialization of opinions already expressed at 
an open meeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Although we find that distribution of the draft letter prior to the Board’s August 18 
meeting violated the Open Meeting Law, we note that there appears to have been no intention to 
conceal the existence or content of the letter from the public. Far from it, during the Board’s 
August 18 open session meeting, held approximately an hour after Chair Magnani circulated the 
draft letter, the Board discussed the letter at some length.  
 
III. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely Respond to an 
Open Meeting Law Complaint.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send 
to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body shall simultaneously notify the Attorney General 
that it has sent such materials to the complainant and shall provide the Attorney General with a 
copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 
29.05(5). 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Committee failed to respond to the first complaint 
which was filed with the Committee on or about August 24. We find, and the Committee 
acknowledges in its November 3 response, that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to timely respond to the first complaint. The Committee has committed to timely 
reviewing and responding to Open Meeting Law complaints in the future.  
 
IV. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Declining to Release the 
Minutes for Its Executive Session Held on October 21, 2021.  
 
A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law provides that minutes of an 
executive session meeting, as well as the materials used to prepare the minutes and all documents 
and exhibits used at the session, “may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . 
. . [for] as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The burden of justifying continued nondisclosure of executive 
session minutes lies with the public body. Foudy v. Amherst-Pelham Regional School 
Committee, 402 Mass. 179, 184 (1988); OML 2017-151. 
 
Here, the Committee convened in executive session on October 21 to discuss, among 
other unrelated matters, the first Open Meeting Law complaint addressed in this determination. 
The Committee responded to the first complaint by letter dated November 3. The Complainant 
asserts that once the Committee issued its response to the first complaint, the purpose for the 
October 21 executive session expired and the Committee may no longer continue to withhold the 
executive session minutes. The Committee asserts that the purpose for the executive session 
remains ongoing until our office issues a final determination resolving the first complaint, at 
which time the Committee has committed to releasing the executive session minutes.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
We find that the purpose for the October 21 executive session is ongoing.6 We have 
explained that when a public body has taken all steps it is authorized to take in response to a 
complaint against one of its members, the purpose for the executive session held under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(1) expires and the public body may no longer continue to withhold the executive 
session minutes. See OML 2021-143. Likewise, we have found that the purpose for an executive 
session held under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) expired when it was clear that the public body would 
not take any further action in response to the complaints discussed during the executive session. 
See OML 2022-1. Unlike in OML 2021-143 and OML 2022-1, here it is not clear that the 
purpose for the October 21 executive session is complete. Indeed, until the resolution of the 
Open Meeting Law complaint that was discussed in the executive session, the Committee could 
be asked to provide further information or further response in the course of this office’s 
investigation of the matter. Furthermore, the Committee could choose to seek judicial review of 
an adverse finding by this office. For these reasons, we find that the purpose for the October 21 
executive session has not yet expired, and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
by continuing to withhold the executive session minutes.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when a draft letter was circulated to the full Board via email. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Furthermore, we order the Board, if it has 
not done so already, to release to the public within 30 days of the date of this letter Chair 
Magnani’s August 18 email circulating the draft letter. 
 
Additionally, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the letter to the Planning Board or with respect to release of executive session minutes. 
We find that the Committee did violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely respond to an 
Open Meeting Law complaint. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with 
the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
an intent to violate the Law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board, the 
Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 We note that the Complainant contacted our office in December of 2021 regarding this issue and we informally 
responded suggesting that after a response to an Open Meeting Law complaint has been issued, the purpose for the 
executive session would be concluded. However, after reviewing the specific facts of this case, including the 
complaint and the response, we find here that the purpose for the October 21 executive session is ongoing. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Laurie Tosti, Chair, Ashland School Committee (via email: 
) 
Joseph Magnani, Chair, Ashland Select Board (via e-mail:  
Stephen Morgan (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
