===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 9, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 3 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
 
Patrick J. Costello, Esq.  
Louison, Costello, Condon & Pfaff, LLP 
pcostello@lccplaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Costello: 
 
This office received four complaints—one each from Beth Andrew-Berry, Glenn 
McCarthy, Barbara Lynne Barbee, and Barbara Reilly—alleging that the Mashpee Zoning Board 
of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1 You 
responded on behalf of the Board by letters dated April 14, 21, 24, and 26. The complaints relate 
to a special permit requested by the owner of property located at 228 Wading Place Road in 
Mashpee. In particular, we understand the primary thrust of the complaints to be that the Board 
met in executive session on March 8 under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) without there being pending 
or threatened litigation justifying the executive session.
2,3  
 
1 Beth Andrew-Berry’s complaint was filed with the Board on or about March 27 and with our office, by Attorney 
Brian J. Wall of Troy Wall Associates, on May 22. Glenn McCarthy’s complaint was filed with the Board on or 
about April 3 and with our office on May 23. Barbara Lynne Barbee’s complaint was filed with the Board on or 
about April 4 and with our office on June 4. Barbara Reilly’s complaint was filed with the Board on or about April 6 
and with our office on June 6. Unless otherwise noted, all dates refenced in this determination are in 2023. 
2 The complaints raise additionally allegations regarding the conduct of the Board’s public hearing regarding the 
special permit at issue, including allegations that the Board received information privately, did not make such 
information known to the public, and did not read certain documents into the record. The Division of Open 
Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 -25, only. 
Therefore, we decline to review, and offer no opinion regarding, whether the Board complied with various public 
hearing requirements when considering the special permit. See OML Declination 1-18-2019 (Lanesborough 
Conservation Commission); OML Declination 11-12-2013 (Ashfield Board of Health). 
3 To the extent additional allegations are raised in the requests for further review, we decline to review those 
allegations as they were not raised in an original Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the Board. See  G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(1); OML 2019-76; OML 2012-92. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
when it convened in executive session on March 8. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, and the requests for further review. 
We also reviewed the notice and minutes for the Board’s March 8 executive session, and video 
recordings of the Board’s February 22 and March 8 open sessions.4,5 Finally, we reviewed the 
January 5 Land Court decision resolving an appeal of the Board’s initial grant of the special 
permit at issue here. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. Th
 e complaints relate to a special permit granted by 
the Board allowing the owner of 228 Wading Place Road in Mashpee to raze and replace a 
dimensionally nonconforming house. An abutter, Dana J. Andrew, Trustee of the Ross Andrew 
Jr. Family Trust, appealed the Board’s decision to the Land Court. On January 5, the Land Court 
issued a decision holding that in granting the special permit the Board failed to make specific 
findings of fact as required under § 174-17.1 of Mashpee’s Zoning Bylaws and failed to properly 
apply various definitions. Andrew, Tr. of Ross Andrew Jr. Family Tr. vs. Furbush, Mass. Land 
Ct., No. 21 MISC 000076 (KTS) (Jan. 5, 2023). The Land Court annulled the Board’s decision 
granting the special permit and remanded the matter to the Board for further proceedings 
consistent with the Land Court’s decision. 
 
On Fe
bruary 22, the Board held a remand hearing regarding the special permit. During 
the hearing, the Board heard from Attorney Christopher Kirrane, representing the applicant; 
Attorney Brian Wall, representing the Ross Andrew Jr. Family Trust; and from members of the 
public including some of the complainants listed above. After discussing the Land Court’s 
decision and the special permit at length, the Board moved to continue the hearing to March 8.  
 
On March 8, at a
 pproximately 4:42 p.m., the Board convened in executive session “to 
discuss strategy with respect to litigation in the matter of Andrew, Trustee of Ross Family Trust 
v. Mashpee Zoning Board of Appeals; Land Court No. 21 Misc. 000076 (228 Wading Place) 
pursuant to M.G.L. c.30A, §21 (a) (3).” During the executive session the Board discussed with 
its legal counsel the Land Court’s decision, the judge’s legal analysis, and what the Board would 
need to do to comply with the order.  
 
Aft
er the executive session, the Board convened its open session meeting which included 
a public hearing regarding the special permit for 228 Wading Place Road. During this hearing the 
Board again heard from Attorneys Kirrane and Wall, as well as members of the public. 
Thereafter, the Board voted to grant the special permit with conditions.  
 
 
 
 
4 The minutes of the March 8 executive session have been released to the public. 
5 A video recording of the Board’s February 22 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zyNYnCgc0o. A video recording of the Board’s March 8 meeting may be 
found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VP-VkTDsCWY. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law’s goal “is to advance democracy by providing broad access to 
governm
ental decision-making and eliminating ‘the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and 
decisions on which public policy is based.’” Bartell v. Wellesley Housing Auth., 28 
Mass.App.Ct. 306, 308-309 (1990), quoting Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 
70, 72 (1978). To that end, all meetings of a public body must be conducted in open session 
unless a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “discuss strategy 
with respect to . . . litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the . . . 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
(“Purpose 3”). Purpose 3 offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; 
the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School 
Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 
Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2020-76; OML 2019-164; OML 2012-5.6 The exceptions 
to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); OML 2014-42. 
 
 Based on the specific facts presented in this case, including the Board’s reasonable belief 
tha
t further litigation resulting from the Board’s action on remand and directly relating to the 
Land Court’s decision was imminent, we find that the Board permissibly convened in executive 
session on March 8 to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that was pending, clearly and 
imminently threatened, or otherwise demonstrably likely. Indeed, this belief was proven accurate 
when the Ross Andrew Jr. Family Trust filed suit challenging the Board’s March 8 grant of the 
special permit. That litigation was later filed is not in and of itself evidence that the Board’s 
belief that litigation was imminently threatened or demonstrably likely was reasonable; however, 
it does provide support to the Board’s position that litigation was imminently threatened or 
demonstrably likely. See OML 2020-76; OML 2012-5. Considering the totality of the 
circumstances, we find that the Board properly met in executive session under Purpose 3 to 
discuss with legal counsel the Land Court’s decision. 
 
  
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting
Law when it convened in executive session on March 8. We now consider the complaints
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other
complaints that may be pending with the Board or with our office. Please feel free to contact our
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Mashpee Zoning Board of Appeals (via email: Mromero@mashpeema.gov)
Mashpee Town Clerk (via email: ddami@mashpeema.gov)
Brian J. Wall, Esq., Troy Wall Associates (via email: bjw@troywallassociates.com)
Beth Andrew-Berry (via email:
Glenn McCarthy (via email:
Barbara Lynne Barbee (Via email:
Barbara Reilly (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.