===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 T EL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 25, 2020 
 
OML 2020 – 77  
 
 
Kevin S. Freytag, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
 
By e-mail only: kfreytag@mhtl.com 
 
RE:      Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Freytag: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy Christiansen on May 19, 2020, alleging that 
the Milton Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law,  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 17, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Board, by letter dated May 8. In her complaint, Ms. Christiansen alleges that the Board 
improperly amended its notice within 48 hours of its April 17 meeting by rearranging the order 
of topics to be discussed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint; the Board’s response to the 
complaint; and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the original and revised notices, as well as the open session minutes, of the Board’s April 17 
meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On April 15 at 11:46 A.M., the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to occur on April 17 at noon. The notice listed ten topics, including (1) Call to Order, (2) 
Pledge of Allegiance, (3) Public Comment, (8) Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining with the Milton Patrol Officers Unit, and (9) Executive Session to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining with the Milton Superior Officers Units. On 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
April 16 at 4:45 P.M., the Board revised its notice by rearranging the order in which it would 
discuss certain of the ten previously posted topics.2 Specifically, the Board rearranged the order 
in which it would discuss the two executive session topics. The revised notice listed the topics as 
follows: (1) Call to Order, (2) Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining with the Milton Patrol Officers Unit, (3) Executive Session to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining with the Milton Superior Officers Units, (4) Pledge of 
Allegiance, and (5) Public Comment. The revised notice did not change the date, time or location 
of the meeting, nor did it list any additional topics to be discussed. 
 
The April 17 meeting was held as planned. The Board convened in open session a few 
minutes after 12 P.M. and then entered executive session to discuss “strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining” with the Milton Patrol Officers Unit and the Milton Superior Officers 
Units. Approximately 20 minutes later, the Board reconvened in open session and held a Public 
Comment period. No member of the public participated. Because the Board rearranged the order 
of topics, Ms. Christiansen was unable to participate during the Public Comment period as her 
schedule only permitted her to attend the beginning of the meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Except in the case of an emergency, the Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
post notice of every meeting “at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays, and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). “Notice shall ... contain the date, time and 
place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board improperly amended its notice within 48 hours of its 
April 17 meeting by rearranging the order of topics to be discussed during the meeting, and that 
because the Board moved the Public Comment period to a later period of time during the 
meeting the complainant was unable to speak and participate in the meeting. A public body must 
list anticipated discussion topics in its notice but is not required to discuss those topics in any 
particular order. See OML 2014-54.3  “If a public body chooses to indicate times at which it 
anticipates different items of discussion to occur, the body should make reasonable efforts to 
honor such representations in the interest of government transparency and the logical 
expectations of attendees.” See OML 2014-35. However, failure to do so does not constitute a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. Here, the Board duly posted notice of its April 17 meeting 
and listed specific topics it planned to discuss. The Board then revised its notice the day before 
the meeting and changed the order of the anticipated discussion topics. We find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law where it simply changed the order in which it planned to 
discuss certain of the noticed topics. See OML 2014-54; OML 2014-35.  
 
 
2 The complaint states that the revised notice was posted on April 18. We assume this is simply a typographical error 
because the revised notice that Ms. Christiansen provided to this office was posted and stamped by the Town Clerk; 
the date and time of posting was April 16 at 4:45 P.M.   
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Moreover, the Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o person shall address a meeting of a 
public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be 
silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The law does not require that a public body allow public 
participation, but rather gives the chair of the public body discretion to decide whether to permit 
public comment during a meeting. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  
Therefore, the Board was not required to hold a Public Comment period at all, and even if the 
Public Comment period had occurred at the beginning of the meeting as it was listed on the 
original notice, it would have been within the discretion of the Board Chair whether to permit the 
complainant to speak during the meeting. We do, however, encourage public bodies to allow for 
as much public participation as time and circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-
129; OML 2012-59. 
  
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with this office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact us at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this 
letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Alina Cathcart, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:       Cindy Christiansen – By e-mail only:  
Milton Select Board c/o Chair Michael Zullas – By e-mail only: 
mzullas@townofmilton.org 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
