===PAGE 1===
 THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ONE ASHBURTON PLACE BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108  (617) 727-2200  (617) 727-4765 TTY  www.mass.gov/ago   
1  
April 28, 2020         OML 2020 – 50  VIA EMAIL ONLY  Peter Sumners, Esq. Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. psumners@mlmlawfirm.com    RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint  Dear Attorney Sumners:  This office received three complaints from Jennifer Brown on January 7, 2020, alleging that the Southern Berkshire Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) and Committee Chair Jane Burke violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee on or about October 18, October 24, and November 5, 2019.1 The Chair responded on behalf of the Committee by letters dated October 24, November 5, and November 14. The complaints allege that 1) the Committee improperly deliberated via email on October 7; 2) the Committee improperly deliberated outside of a noticed meeting on October 23 when a quorum of the Committee discussed the Complainant’s first Open Meeting Law complaint after the October 23 meeting had been adjourned; and 3) the Committee improperly met in executive session on October 24 to discuss with counsel2 how to respond to the Complainant’s first Open Meeting Law complaint.      Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating via email on October 7 and by improperly discussing the public release of the October 7 email in executive session on October 23. We find that the Committee did not violate the Law by convening in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, meeting minutes for the Committee’s October 23 executive session, meeting minutes for the Committee’s October 24 open session, notices for the Committee’s October 23 and 24 meetings, and the Facebook page of Save SBRSD. We also communicated with the Complainant and with counsel for the Committee by phone and email.                                                              1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
===PAGE 2===
2   
FACTS   We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a ten-member public body; thus, six members constitute a quorum. On October 7, the Chair sent an email to the entire Committee regarding a media inquiry she received related to a lawsuit filed against the Southern Berkshire Regional School District (the “District”), two District officials, and the Committee. In the October 7 email, the Chair forwarded the media inquiry as well as a response prepared by counsel; stated her thoughts about, among other things, how the Committee should respond to any future inquiries and the need to support the two District officials named in the lawsuit; informed the Committee members that she would keep them apprised of any new developments; and invited Committee members to email or call her. On October 9, Maryellen Brown, a member of the Committee and the mother of the Complainant, forwarded the Chair’s October 7 email to the Complainant. On October 12 the content of the October 7 email was posted to the Facebook page of a group called Save SBRSD. On October 18, the Complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint alleging that the Committee improperly deliberated via email on October 7. The Complainant filed the complaint with the clerk of the School Committee on October 18, and then on October 23 personally served the Chair with a copy of the complaint.     On October 18, the Committee posted notice for two meetings, one to be held on October 23 and one to be held on October 24.3 The notice for the October 23 meeting included the following two executive session topics:  Executive Session Pursuant to Pursuant to [sic] M.G.L. c. 30A, s. 21(a) (3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body, as declared by the chair. Roll Call Vote.  Executive Session Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, s. 21(a) (1) to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual. Roll Call Vote.4                                                                3 We note that, although the Committee’s meeting notices include the date on which they were originally posted, they do not include the time they were posted, as is required by the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d).  4 Although not raised in the complaint, we note that both executive session topics are insufficiently detailed on the meeting notice. Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in the announcement made by the chair during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2020-47 (noting that, in general, when discussing litigation strategy under Purpose 3, the litigation matter must be identified in both the meeting notice and in the chair’s statement before entering executive session); OML 2013-82 (noting that when discussing a complaint under Purpose 1, the name of the complainant should be included on the meeting notice).  
===PAGE 3===
3   
The October 23 meeting was held as scheduled.5 The minutes of the October 23 executive session have not been released to the public; therefore, we only summarize their content here. During the executive session the Committee discussed litigation strategy with respect to the lawsuit that was the subject of the October 7 email, DeGrenier v. Southern Berkshire Regional School District et al., and a complaint unrelated to the matters at issue in this determination. At the conclusion of its discussions related to the two executive session topics included on its meeting notice, the Committee discussed the unrelated topics of how the October 7 email could have been obtained by a member of the public and posted to a Facebook group called Save SBRSD; that the October 7 email had led to an Open Meeting Law complaint; and the need to keep Committee communications, including emails, confidential. At 6:37 p.m., at the conclusion of this discussion, the Committee voted to adjourn the meeting.       On October 22, at 11:15 a.m., the Committee amended the meeting notice for its October 24 meeting to include two executive session topics, one of which pertained to the Complainant’s October 18 complaint.6 That executive session topic read as follows:  Executive Session  Pursuant to Purpose 1 of the Open Meeting Law (M.G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(1)), to consider an Open Meeting Law complaint against a public officer, namely the members of the School Committee, such complaint having been filed with the District by Jennifer Brown on October 18, 2019; and pursuant to Purpose 7 (M.G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(7)) to comply with or act under the authority of a Massachusetts General Law by receiving legal advice from counsel protected from disclosure under Massachusetts General Law with the relevant citations of law being M.G.L. c.4, §7(26); M.G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(1); and M.G.L. c.214, §1B. and to reconvene in open session to vote on response to OML complaint. Roll Call Vote.  On October 24, the Committee entered into executive session, citing to Purposes 1 and 7, to discuss the October 18 complaint. Following the executive session, the Committee reconvened in open session and voted to “approve advice from counsel regarding the response to the” October 18 complaint. The Chair then read the October 7 email and the Committee’s response to the October 18 complaint aloud.                                                                      5 It is unclear from the October 23 executive session minutes whether the Committee first convened the meeting in open session and whether the Committee took the necessary procedural steps in open session prior to entering into executive session. We remind the Committee of its obligations in this regard. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). 6 We note that the Committee’s second executive session topic, under Purpose 2, was insufficiently detailed. Unless disclosure will defeat the purpose for meeting in executive session under Purpose 2, public bodies should identify both in the meeting notice and in the statement by the chair prior to entering executive session the specific nonunion personnel or collective bargaining unit with whom they will be negotiating. See OML 2020-43.   
===PAGE 4===
4   
DISCUSSION   1. The Committee Improperly Deliberated Via Email on October 7.   The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Accordingly, the law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In relevant part, a meeting is defined as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law defines deliberation as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction[.]” Id. The expression of an opinion by one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is considered a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.7 Here, we find that the Chair engaged in impermissible deliberation outside of an open meeting when she sent an email to the entire Committee regarding the lawsuit filed against the Committee and others, a matter clearly within the Committee’s jurisdiction.     The Committee asserts that by reading the October 7 email aloud at its October 24 meeting it has cured the Open Meeting Law violation. However, the email also should have been listed in the October 24 meeting minutes as a document used at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Therefore, we order the Committee, within 60 days of receipt of this determination, to revise the October 24 meeting minutes to include the October 7 email as a document used at the meeting.   2. The Committee’s Discussion on October 23 Related to the October 7 Email Should Not Have Been Held in Executive Session.    The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an open session, with some exceptions. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose, or purposes, for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called,” and whether the public body will reconvene in open session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3)-(4); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary . . . because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper.”). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); OML 2014-42.                                                                7 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5   
The October 24 complaint alleges that immediately following the Committee’s October 23 meeting, a quorum of the Committee deliberated regarding the Complainant’s October 18 complaint. After review of the October 23 executive session minutes, and discussion with the Complainant, we do not find that the Committee deliberated outside of a meeting on October 23. However, we do find that the discussion the Committee engaged in at the end of its October 23 executive session related to the October 7 email was inappropriate for executive session.   The discussion regarding how the October 7 email came to be posted to Facebook and the need to keep Committee communications confidential did not fall within any of the ten enumerated executive session purposes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Although a discussion of an Open Meeting Law complaint filed with the public body is a permissible topic for executive session, we find that the discussion of how the October 7 email was leaked and the need to keep communications confidential was separate from a discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaint, which was on the agenda for, and was discussed at, the Committee’s meeting for the following day. Additionally, even if the Committee’s discussion had more directly related to the October 18 Open Meeting Law complaint, the discussion would still have been improper as this topic was not included on the notice for the Committee’s October 23 meeting, but instead was included on the notice for the Committee’s October 24 meeting. We remind the Committee that, even if an executive session is lawfully convened, each topic to be discussed must be individually listed on the meeting notice as well as in the announcement in open session prior to entering executive session, and the Committee’s discussions must be restricted to those topics. See OML 2015-54; OML 2013-195; OML 2019-170. Because the Committee’s discussion related to the October 7 email and the need to keep Committee communications confidential did not fall within a permissible statutory purpose for executive session, we order the Committee to release to the public the portion of its October 23 meeting minutes that reflect this discussion. See G.L c. 30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the public in their entirety . . . as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with section 21.”); OML 2014-42; OML 2019-170.  3. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When It Convened in Executive Session Under Purpose 1 to Discuss an Open Meeting Law Complaint.  Executive session Purpose 1 allows a public body to discuss “the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). We have consistently stated that an Open Meeting Law complaint is by its nature a complaint brought against a public officer, namely, the members of the public body. See OML 2019-163; OML 2019-31; OML 2012-119. Therefore, the Committee did not violate the Law when it convened in executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss the Complainant’s Open Meeting Law complaint filed against the Committee and the Chair.   Although we find that the Committee did not violate the Law by convening in executive session under Purpose 1 to discuss the Complainant’s Open Meeting Law complaint, we note that the citation to Purpose 7 as an additional basis for convening in executive session was 
===PAGE 6===
6   
improper. Purpose 7 allows a public body to convene in executive session “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). Here, the notice for the Committee’s October 24 meeting stated that it would convene in executive session “to comply with or act under the authority of a Massachusetts General Law by receiving legal advice from counsel protected from disclosure under Massachusetts General Law with the relevant citations of law being M.G.L. c.4, §7(26); M.G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(1); and M.G.L. c.214, §1B.” The protection of the attorney-client privilege is not a valid reason for holding a discussion in executive session unless the discussion otherwise falls within one of the ten enumerated executive session purposes. The Supreme Judicial Court has unequivocally held that the Open Meeting Law constitutes “a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.” Dist. Atty. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985). Accord Revere Retirement Bd. v. Attorney General, 93 Mass. App. Ct. 1117 (2018) (Rule 1:28 Decision) (Further Appellate Review denied Sep. 13, 2018). We also find that neither the public records law, G.L. c. 4, § 7(26), nor the statutory right of privacy, G.L. c. 214, § 1B, to which the Committee cited in claiming a Purpose 7 executive session, justified the executive session discussion. However, because the Committee’s discussion of the Open Meeting Law complaint that was filed against it, and its discussion with counsel regarding its response to the complaint, properly fell within executive session Purpose 1, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law as to the October 24 executive session.  CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated above, we find the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating via email on October 7 and by improperly holding a discussion in executive session on October 23. We find that the Committee did not violate the Law by convening in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 940 CMR 29.02. We also order the Committee, within 60 days of receipt of this determination, to amend the minutes of the October 24 meeting to specifically list the October 7 email as a document used at the meeting. Additionally, we order the Committee to release to the public the portion of its October 23 meeting minutes that reflect the discussion improperly held in executive session. Finally, although not raised in the complaints, we note several concerns with the manner in which the Committee conducted its executive sessions, and we recommend that the Committee review our training video on executive sessions and our checklist for entering into executive session.8  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.                                                                 8 The video and checklist can be found at https://www.mass.gov/service-details/open-meeting-law-educational-materials.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Southern Berkshire Regional School Committee c/o Lynette Gagnon (via e-mail: 
lgagnon@sbrsd.org) 
 Jennifer Brown (via e-mail: ) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
