===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 25, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 9 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Fred Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
 
This office received two complaints from Robert Slager on or about May 27, 2021,1 
alleging that the Halifax Elementary School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Both complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
on or about March 9, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated March 24. 
Together, the complaints allege that the Committee 1) “failed to release the individual tally of 
votes” taken during a February 26 executive session; and 2) met in executive session on 
February 26 and March 1 without a lawful purpose.2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged in the complaints, but that the Committee did violate the Law by creating 
insufficiently detailed minutes for its February 26 and March 1 executive sessions. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Committee’s responses, 
the requests for further review, the minutes of the Committee’s February 26 and March 1 
executive sessions, emails sent to the Committee and school administration, and additional 
information provided to our office by the Committee. We also communicated with Counsel for 
the Committee3 on several occasions, as well as with an assistant attorney general in the Attorney 
General’s Civil Rights Division.  
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 
2 The complaints do not explicitly allege that the Committee met in executive session on February 26 without a 
lawful purpose; however, taken together, we understand the essence of both complaints to include an allegation that 
the Committee improperly met in executive session on both February 26 and March 1. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The complaints at issue here relate to a controversy 
that began in early 2021 within the Town of Halifax regarding the display of PEACE flags at the 
Halifax Elementary School (the “School”), the removal of those flags, and concerns over the 
Thin Blue Line flag. The intensity of this controversy escalated quickly, with the School 
receiving thousands of emails from citizens expressing their opinions and, in some cases, making 
general threats of litigation. In addition to emails, there were also protests, social media posts, 
and news media coverage related to the controversy.  
 
On February 17, Lana Eldridge and Lauren Laws sent an email to Dr. Jill Proulx, 
Superintendent of the Silver Lake Regional School District, of which the School is a part; Kayne 
Beaudry, Principal of the School; and Brian DeSantes, Assistant Principal of the School (the 
“Eldridge Email”). The Eldridge Email attached a petition requesting that the PEACE flags be 
rehung at the School. The email also explained that its authors had consulted with legal counsel 
and believed that if the School refused to rehang the flags, it would be violating state law and 
students’ First Amendment rights. The email closed by stating “[w]e expect to see compliance 
with the students[’] wishes by a hanging of PEACE flags within various classrooms within 5 
business days. If the administration fails to act to honor our students[’] First Amendment rights 
within that time frame, we will seek legal relief and remediation.” The same day the Eldridge 
Email was received, the Committee posted notice for an executive session to be held on February 
24 to discuss strategy with respect to threatened litigation. The February 24 meeting was 
canceled, and a new notice was posted for a meeting to be held on February 26 that again 
included an executive session to discuss strategy with respect to threatened litigation. 
 
In addition to the Eldridge Email, between January 28 and April 7, Evan Smith, an 
attorney and resident of Halifax, sent the Superintendent, the Principal, and the Chair of the 
Committee, among others, numerous emails, and made social media posts, regarding the removal 
of the PEACE flags from the School. Several of Attorney Smith’s communications implicitly or 
explicitly threatened litigation if the PEACE flags were not rehung at the School. On February 
24, Attorney Smith, who was in close contact with Lana Eldridge and Lauren Laws, called the 
Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division regarding the removal of the PEACE flags from the 
School and spoke with an assistant attorney general. That same day, the assistant attorney 
general emailed Superintendent Proulx explaining that the Civil Rights Division had received a 
complaint regarding the removal of the PEACE flags and asking to schedule a call to discuss the 
matter. Additionally, Counsel for the Committee also spoke to the assistant attorney general 
regarding the PEACE flag matter on February 24. Throughout the time relevant to the 
complaints at issue here, the assistant attorney general at no point expressly or implicitly 
threatened litigation. 
 
On February 26, the Committee convened in executive session as scheduled and 
discussed, with Counsel, the Eldridge Email; each law referenced in the Eldridge email and its 
applicability to the situation at hand; relevant caselaw; and potential defenses. The Committee 
also discussed with Counsel that a complaint had been brought to the Attorney General’s Office; 
Counsel’s conversation with the assistant attorney general; how to respond to the complaint; and 
litigation risk.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
The Committee timely posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 1. On March 1 
the Committee again convened in executive session to discuss, among other things, strategy with 
respect to threatened litigation related to the PEACE flag controversy. The Committee discussed, 
with Counsel, various potential resolutions of the complaint brought to the Attorney General’s 
Office, including creating an advisory committee.     
 
Ultimately, the principal of the School created a Principal’s Advisory Committee to 
advise on messaging with respect to equity, inclusion, and respect. The Attorney General’s Civil 
Rights Division was satisfied with this outcome and indicated that this particular complaint was 
resolved as far as the Attorney General’s office was concerned. To date, the School has not been 
sued regarding removal of the PEACE flags.  
 
On October 12, the Committee voted to publicly release, without redactions, the minutes 
of the February 26 and March 1 executive sessions. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a). A public body may enter 
executive session for any one or more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so 
declares” (“Purpose 3”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings 
of a public body shall be open are narrowly construed, and a public body’s discussions with its 
counsel do not automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other executive session purpose. See 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 (2008); Plymouth Dist. Atty v. Bd. of 
Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629 (1985); OML 2012-55; OML 2014-42.4  
 
The litigation prong of Purpose 3 offers a public body the narrow opportunity to discuss 
strategy with respect to litigation where the public body has a litigating position. See OML 2021-
56; OML 2012-55; OML 2018-110; OML 2011-47. Under Purpose 3, a public body has a 
litigating position to protect if there is pending litigation in which the public body has a litigating 
position, or if litigation is clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; 
the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School 
Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 
Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-5. A written communication that either explicitly or 
implicitly threatens litigation may provide sufficient basis for a public body to reasonably 
believe that litigation is imminently threatened. See OML 2016-6; OML 2012-76; OML 2012-
05. 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The Open Meeting Law provides that executive session minutes, which must include a 
record of all votes, may be withheld from disclosure to the public for “as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer; provided, however, that the 
executive session was held in compliance with section 21.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22. When the purpose 
for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits used at 
the session must be disclosed, unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the Public 
Records Law applies. Id. 
 
I. The Committee Properly Met in Executive Session Under Purpose 3 on February 26 
and March 1. 
 
We must determine whether litigation was pending or was clearly and imminently 
threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely such that the Committee was justified in entering 
executive session under Purpose 3 on February 26 and March 1. The Committee asserts that any 
complaint brought to the Attorney General’s Office is per se litigation and therefore forms a 
proper basis for meeting in executive session under Purpose 3. We disagree. We have found that 
some administrative adjudicatory matters before a state agency constitute litigation and would 
therefore be appropriate for discussion in executive session under Purpose 3. For example, we 
have found that a public body properly met in executive session under Purpose 3 to discuss 
strategy with respect to adjudicatory hearings before the Massachusetts Commission Against 
Discrimination and the Architectural Access Board “[b]ecause MCAD and AAB adjudicatory 
hearing procedures closely resemble traditional litigation, [and therefore] the matters being 
adjudicated by these entities are considered pending litigation.” OML 2015-13; Cf. OML 2019-
57 (Open Meeting Law complaints are appropriate for discussion in executive session under 
Purpose 1, but not Purpose 3, as they result in an administrative review process rather than a 
proceeding before a judge or an adjudicatory hearing officer, and therefore do not constitute 
litigation). Although the Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division may open investigations and 
initiate civil litigations where appropriate, the Civil Rights Division did not do so here and was 
transparent with the concerned parties about its intended role in this matter. The assistant 
attorney general at no point directly or implicitly threatened litigation, and the assistant attorney 
general’s involvement in this matter was in no way akin to litigation and therefore cannot form 
the basis for meeting in executive session under Purpose 3.5 
 
Although we find that the complaint lodged with the Civil Rights Division did not 
constitute pending or threatened litigation, we do find, based on the totality of the circumstances, 
that there were other ongoing threats of litigation and that the Committee’s discussions of how to 
address the PEACE flag matter, including how to resolve the complaint brought to the Civil 
Rights Division, related to the Committee’s litigation strategy with respect to those other threats 
of litigation. See OML 2020-76; OML 2017-87; OML 2017-122. Therefore, we find that the 
Committee’s discussions on February 26 and March 1 with respect to the PEACE flag matter 
 
5 To provide further guidance, we also note that there is no executive session purpose that covers discussions with 
legal counsel in general. Indeed, the Supreme Judicial Court has unequivocally stated that the Open Meeting Law 
constitutes “a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental 
bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.” District Attorney for the Plymouth Dist. v. 
Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 632-634 (1985). A public body may discuss matters in executive 
session with legal counsel, but only if it first has a lawful purpose for meeting in executive session. See OML 2020-
50. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
were appropriate for executive session; however, we note that this case presented a close 
question and caution the Committee that the ten executive session purposes set forth in the Open 
Meeting Law are narrowly construed.6  
 
II. The Committee Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law By Declining to Disclose 
Information About the Proceedings of Its February 26 Executive Session.   
 
One of the complaints alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
“fail[ing] to release the individual tally of votes by school committee members regarding their 
[February 26] executive session deliberations on a policy issue.” The complaint continues, the 
“Open Meeting Law prohibits taking votes in secret and then refusing to release the results of 
those individual votes to the public.” We disagree. The Open Meeting Law specifically allows 
public bodies to convene in executive session for one of ten purposes set forth in the Law. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21. In such cases a public body may deliberate and take action, including vote, in 
executive session behind closed doors. Additionally, the Open Meeting Law allows a public 
body to withhold executive session minutes, which must include a record of all votes, from the 
public for “as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Therefore, the Committee was not required to “release the 
individual tally of votes” taken during its February 26 executive session while the purpose for 
that executive session was ongoing.  
 
III. The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law By Creating Insufficiently Detailed 
Minutes for Both the February 26 and March 1 Executive Sessions. 
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint, we find that the minutes for the February 26 
and March 1 executive sessions are insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred. See OML 2016-105. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, 
minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic; a statement that a 
discussion was held is insufficient to comply with the Law. See OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; 
OML 2012-29; OML 2019-167. Based on our communications with Counsel for the Committee, 
we understand that the minutes fail to capture much of the discussion that took place during the 
two executive sessions. We order the Committee to amend its February 26 and March 1 
executive session minutes, to the best of its ability, in accordance with the requirements of the 
 
6 Although we find the Committee’s discussions of the PEACE flag matter to have been appropriate for executive 
session, we note that during the Committee’s March 1 executive session it discussed a contract with a busing 
company. This discussion did not fit within any of the ten executive session purposes provided for in the Open 
Meeting Law and was therefore inappropriate for executive session. See OML 2014-149; OML 2019-170. Because 
the minutes for the March 1 executive session have already been released to the public, and in light of the time that 
has passed, we order no further remedial action. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
Open Meeting Law, and to certify to our office within 30 days of the date of this letter that it has 
done so.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee properly met in executive 
session to discuss threatened litigation on February 26 and March 1. However, we find that the 
minutes for the February 26 and March 1 executive sessions are insufficiently detailed. We order 
the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Furthermore, 
we order the Committee to amend the minutes for its February 26 and March 1 executive 
sessions and to certify to our office within 30 days of the date of this letter that it has done so.  
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Gordon Andrews, Chair of Halifax Elementary School Committee (via email: 
) 
Robert Slager (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
