===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 8, 2018 
OML 2018-2 
Peter Ebb, Esq. 
Ropes & Gray, LLP 
Prudential Tower, 800 Boylston Street 
Boston, MA 02199 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Ebb: 
This office received a complaint from Steven Ballard, Esq., dated October 24, 2017, 
alleging that the Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on August 10, 2017, and you responded by e-mail on behalf of the Committee on 
August 30, 2017. In his complaint. Attorney Ballard alleges that the Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by deliberating outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also 
reviewed a memorandum sent by Committee chair Amy Krishnamurthy to the other Committee 
members on July 25, 2017. We spoke with the Committee's legal counsel by telephone on 
November 15, 2017, and we spoke with the complainant by telephone on November 21, 2017.1 
Finally, we reviewed the minutes of a Committee meeting held on July 26, 2017. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is an eleven-member public body, 
consisting of seven members from Acton and four members from Boxborough. Pursuant to the 
regional school agreement between the two towns, a quorum of the Committee consists of no 
fewer than four members from Acton and no fewer than two members from Boxborough. 
On July 14, 2017, in response to a request, the Committee provided an Acton resident 
with redacted minutes of two executive sessions held on April 26 and May 2, 2017. While the 
specifics of what followed are in dispute, on or about July 20, 2017, unredacted copies of the 
' For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
same executive session minutes were distributed and published by local media. The Committee 
stated to our office that it never provided unredacted copies to anyone. 
On July 21, 2017, the Committee chair issued a statement on behalf of the Committee 
condemning the release of unredacted executive session minutes. On July 25, 2017, the chair 
sent a memorandum to all other Committee members concerning the release of the unredacted 
executive session minutes. This memorandum summarized the timeline of events and included a 
copy of the statement made by the chair on behalf of the Committee. The memorandum then 
described events preceding the release of the minutes. During this period, a group of citizens had 
demanded a meeting with certain specific Committee members. The memorandum called this an 
"ultimatum." Finally, the memorandum stated that the Committee would not comment further 
on or answer questions about the unredacted minutes. 
The Committee held a meeting on July 26, 2017, the day following the issuance of the 
memorandum. As the first order of business, the chair read the July 25, 2017 memorandum. She 
then stated that there would be no further discussion on the issue. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c, 
3OA, § 18. "Deliberation" is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction." Id (emphasis added). The definition of 
"deliberation" does not include "the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at 
a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. A one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body's jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2015-33.2 
Here, the complaint alleges that the July 25, 2017 memorandum distributed by e-mail 
violated the Open Meeting Law. We agree. The memorandum is a communication to all 
Committee members on a topic of concern to the Committee. In its response, the Committee 
contends that, because the chair was merely making the Committee members aware of the 
statement she had released on July 21, 2017, the memorandum was not deliberation within the 
meaning of the Open Meeting Law.3 Indeed, we have stated in prior determinations that 
documents meant for discussion at the upcoming meeting may be distributed to all public body 
members if they do not include substantive opinions on public body business. See OML 2015-
98. The memorandum at issue here, however, goes further than a mere recitation of facts, laying 
out the chronology of the underlying events and stating that the Committee's position was not to 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
3 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the chair was not authorized to make this statement on the 
Committee's behalf, we note that this allegation, even if true, would not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 
2017-148, Fn. 2 (the Division does not investigate allegations outside the scope of the Open Meeting Law). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
entertain questions on the matter. In essence, the memorandum rebuts comments in the 
community critical of the Committee's actions. We conclude that the memorandum was 
substantive communication on Committee business and that, therefore, its distribution 
constituted "deliberation" outside a meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law, and we caution that 
similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the 
July 25, 2017 memorandum has already been provided to the complainant, and because its 
contents were discussed during the Committee's July 26, 2017 meeting, we order no additional 
relief. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Steven Ballard, Esq. 
Acton-Boxborough Regional School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 