===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 21, 2017 
OML 2017-199 
Marc Terry, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
1800 West Park Drive, Suite 400 
Westborough, MA 01581 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Terry: 
This office received two complaints from Attorney David Monastersky on July 28, 
alleging that the Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter School Board of Trustees (the 
"Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaints were 
originally filed with the Board on or about May 16, and Board President Geoffrey Sumi 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 31. In his first complaint, Attorney 
Monastersky alleges that, during the Board's May 9 meeting, a Board member passed a note 
to the Board's attorney. In his second complaint. Attorney Monastersky alleges that the 
Board improperly deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board's Grievance Committee violated the 
Open Meeting Law by deliberating over email. However, we find no violation with respect to 
the first complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board's response to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the minutes of the Board's meetings held on May 9 and May 30 as 
well as the minutes of the Grievance Committee meeting held on May 12. Finally, we 
reviewed email communications provided to us by the Board and asked questions of Board 
President Geoffrey Sumi via the Board's counsel. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board consists of 15 members; thus eight members 
constitute a quorum. Among the 15 members, the Board has three officers: Geoffrey Sumi, 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
President; Deborah Jacobson, Treasurer; and Rachel Dionne, Clerk. Scott Goldman served as 
the Head of School until June 30, which is the date he had planned to retire from his position. 
On April 28, some of the school's faculty and staff filed two petitions with the Board 
requesting that Mr. Goldman be removed from his position.2 Separately, three teachers filed 
grievances with the Board against Mr. Goldman between April 28 and May 2. Mr. Sumi 
forwarded all of these matters to the other officers as well as to Board member Jim Barnhill. 
The three officers, Mr. Barnhill, and Board counsel attempted to reach a resolution with Mr. 
Goldman concerning the issues raised in the petitions and grievances. The officers, along 
with Mr. Barnhill, emailed each other about various issues that arose during this time. Mr. 
Sumi also communicated with Board member William Decherd, who is a Board 
representative serving on the Personnel Advisory Board ("PAB") which represents school 
staff, about PABs proposed statement to staff regarding the Board's actions with respect to the 
petitions and grievances. 
The Board then convened a meeting on May 9 to discuss the grievance and petitions.3 
Although the Board planned to discussed the matter in executive session, Mr. Goldman 
exercised his right to hold the discussion in open session. This was the first time that the full 
Board had received copies of the grievance and petitions (though Board counsel had notified 
them about the issues prior to the meeting). This was also the first time that the full Board 
learned about the officers' efforts to resolve the issues with Mr. Goldman prior to the meeting. 
According to the meeting minutes, the Board voted to create a Grievance Committee "to 
investigate the petitions and grievances and to resolve any issues as necessary." The 
Grievance Committee was comprised of six members (thus four members constitute a 
quorum); the three Board officers, as well as Board members Jim Barnhill, Zevey Steinitz and 
Donovan Arthen. Although not reflected in the minutes, Mr. Barnhill passed a note to Board 
counsel during this meeting. Following its discussion, the Board placed Mr. Goldman on paid 
administrative leave for two weeks pending the outcome of an investigation into the grievance 
and petitions. 
On May 10, the officers and Mr. Barnhill, all of whom were members of the 
Grievance Committee, emailed each other about whether to grant Mr. Goldman's request to 
access his office as well as whether to suspend his email account. They also collectively 
drafted messages from the Board to the school community and to faculty and staff regarding 
the Board's decision to place Mr. Goldman on paid leave. In one email to the Committee, Mr. 
Sumi sent a revised draft of a public statement and then stated, "Also, we need to make a 
decision soon about the interim leadership plan." Then, Ms. Dionne responded, stating, "I 
read the drafts and am fine with the wording. I am just truly struggling with this proposed 
plan with the senior admin team.. .1 would feel so much more comfortable with an impartial 
2 That same day, one teacher sent an email to the Board explaining his decision not to participate in the petitions. 
Board member Melinda Winter responded, copying the Board, "Thank you so very much for your thoughtful 
remarks" and then encouraged the Board to attend a school performance that weekend. We take this opportunity 
to remind the Board that it should limit such communications between and among a quorum outside of meetings, 
as we discuss below, 
3 The meeting was originally scheduled for May 2, but the Board postponed it. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
interim [Head of School]." Mr. Barnhill responded, "Can we hold up until Friday. We have 
two possibilities for an interim head. I tentatively support an interim head. We have two 
good candidates. In the alternative can we send the statement and hire an interim anyway?" 
Mr. Sumi replied to Mr. Barnhill on May 11, copying the other two officers, stating, "there is 
a real crisis developing at the school around a student's discipline. The mother has 
complained to the [Department of Elementary and Secondary Education].. .We need to 
approve the interim plan in order for the admin team to deal with this issue... We also have to 
have cause to extend [Mr. Goldman's] leave before we can announce an interim head." 
On May 11, Grievance Committee member Donovan Arthen sent an email to the rest 
of the Committee regarding the compensation levels for the interim leadership plan. Mr. 
Arthen stated, "I am not sure that I think this plan especially the compensation levels that are 
being expected is the right way to go." Mr. Arthen then summarized his thoughts on the Head 
of School's salary. Mr. Arthen stated, "I do not think our administrative team should be 
compensated for additional responsibilities, however I think that should be stipend based, and 
not proportional to the HoS salary." Mr. Sumi responded to the email to the rest of the 
Grievance Committee notifying them that "the reporter will be at our meeting tomorrow." 
The Grievance Committee convened a meeting on May 12. At this meeting, the 
Grievance Committee appointed an outside investigator to review the petitions and grievances 
and provide it "with a report of its investigation detailing their findings of fact and any 
violations of the law or school policy." The Grievance Committee also extended Mr. 
Goldman's paid administrative leave until June 6 based on the receipt of two additional 
grievances, which Mr. Sumi had emailed to the other members of the Committee hours before 
the meeting, as well as the time necessary for the outside investigator to undertake the review. 
The Grievance Committee then voted to approve a proposal from the school's administrative 
team that distributes Mr. Goldman's responsibilities to other employees during the period of 
his leave. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School 
Commission of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive 
session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any 
public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include 
the distribution of other procedural meeting (sic) or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." Id. 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority of the members 
of the public body. Id. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
I. The Board Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Meeting Between April 28 and May 
12. 
The complainant alleges that the Board deliberated privately about Mr. Goldman 
between April 8 and May 12. We find no evidence that a quorum of the Board communicated 
outside of a meeting between April 28 and May 12. Leading up to its May 9 meeting, the 
Board's three officers, along with another Board member, Mr. Barnhill, communicated with 
each other about the petitions and grievances. It was only at the May 9 meeting that the full 
Board became fully aware of the officers' behind-the-scenes efforts to negotiate with Mr. 
Goldman about the issues raised in the petitions and grievances. Because the communications 
between the three officers and Mr. Barnhill between April 28 and May 9 were between a 
subquorum of the Board, which did not otherwise reach a quorum of the Board, those 
communications did not constitute deliberation. See OML 2017-69; OML 2015-77; OML 
2011-52.4 
Following the Board's May 9 meeting, the officers and Mr. Barnhill exchanged emails 
concerning whether to allow Mr. Goldman access to his office and suspending his email 
account; something arguably within the officers' authority to decide, rather than the 
Grievance Committee specifically tasked with resolving the petitions and grievances against 
Mr. Goldman. See The Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter Public School's Bylaws, 
Section 2.1 (the Board "shall have the general management and control of all the property, 
affairs, and funds" of the school); OML 2016-119. Therefore, those communications also 
occurred between a subquorum of the Board, which is permissible under the Open Meeting 
Law. 
II. The Board's Grievance Committee Unlawfully Deliberated Over Email Following 
the Board's May 9 Meeting. 
Following the Board's May 9 meeting, a quorum of the Board's newly-appointed 
Grievance Committee did engage in improper deliberation by communicating by email 
several times before its first meeting on May 12 about the interim leadership plan. Although 
the May 9 meeting minutes do not specifically mention the interim leadership plan as a task of 
the newly-created Grievance Committee, the Committee voted to approve a proposal for the 
interim leadership plan during its May 12 meeting. Therefore, we find that the topic was a 
matter within the Grievance Committee's jurisdiction and should have been saved for 
discussion at its meeting. See District Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee 
of Wayland, 451 Mass. 561, 570-571 (2009) ("Governmental bodies may not circumvent the 
requirements of the open meeting law by conducting deliberations via private messages, 
whether electronically, in person, over the telephone, or in any other form"). All three 
officers and Mr. Barnhill sent emails to each other regarding the interim leadership plan on 
May 10 and May 11.5 Further, another Grievance Committee member, Mr. Arthen, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 These communications were exchanged in the context of the officers' (and Mr. Bamhill's) attempts to draft 
public statements explaining the Board's actions to date with respect to Mr. Goldman; a topic which is within the 
4 
===PAGE 5===
expressed his opinion to the rest of the Committee about the interim leadership plan and 
whether to compensate existing employees for assuming additional responsibilities in Mr. 
Goldman's absence. The Grievance Committee is a distinct public body separate from its 
parent body, the Board, and therefore has its own distinct quorum of four members. See 
OML 2012-6. Because a quorum of the Grievance Committee engaged in a discussion by 
email about a topic it subsequently decided upon two days later, the Board's Grievance 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. We order the Board to publicly release the 
emails at issue within 30 days of receipt of this determination, if it has not already done so. 
However, Mr. Sumi's May 11 email to the Grievance Committee notifying them that a 
reporter would be present at its meeting conveyed procedural information about the meeting 
was thus not deliberation. See OML 2017-69. Recognizing that it is sometimes difficult to 
determine whether communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, our 
office cautions public bodies on the use of electronic media. See AGO FAQ on Deliberation 
and Electronic Communication.6 
III. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law When a Board Member Passed 
a Note to Board Counsel During the May 9 Meeting. 
The complainant further alleges that a Board member violated the Open Meeting Law 
by secretly passing a note to Board counsel during the May 9 meeting. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that meetings of a public body be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18, 20(a); OML 2012-49. Access must include the opportunity to be physically 
present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. 
See OML 2017-16; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66; OML 2012-48. Here, a note from a 
Board member to Board counsel, who is not a member of the Board, is not deliberation, as 
defined by the Open Meeting Law, because a quorum of the Board did not participate in the 
communication. See OML 2017-37; G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board's Grievance Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law by deliberating over email. We order the Board's immediate and 
future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Additionally, we order the Board to 
publicly release the Grievance Committee emails within 30 days of receipt of this 
determination. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
full Board's jurisdiction, rather than the Grievance Committee. However, the portions concerning the interim 
leadership plan fell within the jurisdiction of the Grievance Committee. 
6 https://www.mass.gov/service-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law-public-bodies-
quorum. 
5 
===PAGE 6===
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Monastersky, Esq. 
Pioneer Valley Performing Arts Charter School Board of Trustees 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
6 