===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 14, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 161 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Christine O’Connor, Esq.  
Lowell City Solicitor  
375 Merrimack Street, 3rd Floor 
Lowell, MA 01852-5909 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Solicitor O’Connor: 
This office received a complaint from Nancy Fortes on November 17, 2020, alleging that 
the Lowell City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on October 14, and you responded on behalf 
of the Council by letter dated November 3.1 In her complaint, Ms. Fortes alleges that the Council 
1) removed a member of the public from a September 22 meeting after he made remarks during 
public participation, and 2) did not permit Ms. Fortes to participate in a September 22 meeting. 
 We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. During the pandemic, 
the Council has provided real-time live access to its virtual meetings through a live stream on 
local access cable hosted by Lowell TeleMedia Center, in compliance with Governor Baker’s 
executive order suspending certain elements of the Open Meeting Law. See Exec. Order No. 591 
(Mar. 10, 2020).2 During the September 22 meeting, the Council’s members participated via 
Zoom along with members of the public who requested in advance to participate in a meeting. 
When it was time for a member of the public to speak, the Chief Information Officer (“CIO”) 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that 
provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of the public body . . . 
[enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” 
Executive Order at ¶ 1. These measures include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite 
enabled audio or video conferencing or any other technology.” Id. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
unmuted the person. When the person finished speaking, the CIO then removed the person from 
the Zoom meeting. We have said that public bodies may hold a virtual meeting for members of 
the public body and any participants via Zoom, while live streaming through another method. 
See OML 2020-107. We therefore find that the Council provided “adequate alternative” means 
of access for member of the public to observe the September 22 meeting through the Lowell 
TeleMedia Center live stream.  
 Prior to the Council’s September 22 meeting, Ms. Fortes and her son both requested to 
speak during public participation. During the Council’s September 22 meeting, Ms. Fortes’ son 
was permitted to speak. However, not realizing that Ms. Fortes and her son had both registered to 
speak but were attending with a shared Zoom account, the CIO removed both Ms. Fortes and her 
son from the Zoom meeting after the son spoke. As a result, Ms. Fortes was not able to 
participate during the meeting, as she had registered to do. However, we find no evidence that 
the Lowell TeleMedia Center live stream was defective and therefore concluded that Ms. Fortes 
could observe the proceedings through that means. The Open Meeting Law does not require that 
a public body allow public participation during its meetings, but rather provides that “[n]o person 
shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at 
the request of the chair, be silent.” G.L. c. 30A § 20(f). The Open Meeting Law, therefore, 
permits the chair of a public body to decide whether to allow for public participation, and if so, 
to set limitations on participation. See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.
3 We do, 
however, encourage public bodies to allow for as much public participation as time and 
circumstances permit. See OML 2015-12; OML 2014-129. In this case, as public participation is 
discretionary, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. However, we do recommend, as a 
best practice, that the Council clarify its procedure for public participation where two members 
of the public plan to participate with one Zoom account.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: N
ancy Fortes (via e -mail: ) 
 L owell City Council c/o Celine Gettings  (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 