===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 4, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 62 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Swansea Board of Assessors  
c/o Town Administrator 
Mallory Aronstein 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Gray: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on November 4, 2020, alleging 
that the Swansea Board of Assessors (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 15, but the Board did 
not review the complaint until its November 10 meeting.1, 2 The Town Administrator responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 12. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that 
the Board’s September 2 meeting was not accessible to the public and that the Board discussed 
several matters in executive session without a proper statutory purpose. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide public access to a meeting and citing the incorrect purpose for an executive session. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  
Public Access  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in a proper executive session, the 
Law requires that all meetings of a public body be open and accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We remind the Board of its obligation to meet, review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our Office. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.3 Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically 
present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. 
See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189. 
On September 2, the Board met in person, with a quorum physically present at the 
meeting location. The Board concedes that the Board did not provide in-person access for the 
public to attend the meeting. Nor did the Board provide “adequate, alternative” means of remote 
access for the public under Governor Baker’s March 12 Executive Order Suspending Certain 
Requirement of the Open Meeting Law.4 See Exec. Order No. 591 (Mar. 12, 2020). Therefore, as 
the Board provided no access to the public for its September 2 meeting, we find the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law. The Board has committed to providing remote access to all 
future meetings where attendance is anticipated to be large enough to prevent safe in-person 
attendance due to COVID-19 capacity restrictions. If attendance at a Board meeting is 
unexpectedly high, such that all members of the public who wish to attend cannot be 
accommodated, the Board has committed to cancelling and rescheduling the meeting with a 
remote access option. We commend the Board for implementing these procedures to prevent 
future Open Meeting Law violations.  
Executive Session 
 A public body may enter into executive session for any one or more of ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). When convening in executive 
session, each topic to be discussed must be listed on the meeting notice as well as included in the 
announcement in open session prior to entering executive session, and the public body’s 
discussions must be restricted to those topics. See OML 2020-68; OML 2019-170. One such 
executive session purpose is Purpose 6, which allows a public body to convene in executive 
session to “consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares 
that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public 
body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in 
negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or leased to avoid putting the 
public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See District Atty. for the 
Plymouth Dist. v. Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 631 (1985); OML 2016-50; 
OML 2019-10. General discussions regarding real property or the use of real property, where 
there is no negotiating position to protect, do not fall within executive session Purpose 6. See 
OML 2019-59; OML 2019-108. Here, the Board’s meeting notice for the September 2 meeting 
stated that the Board would enter executive session under Purpose 6 to discuss “ATB review, 
Chapter Land, exemptions, abatements, etc.” The Board concedes, and we agree, that these 
topics were inappropriate for executive session under Purpose 6.  
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 The March 12 Executive Order suspended the requirement that meetings be physically accessible to members of 
the public, but only if a public body provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings. The 
Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall mean measures that provide 
transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the deliberations of the public body ... [[enabling] the 
public to clearly follow the proceedings of the public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at 
§ 1. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 Another enumerated purpose for executive session is Purpose 7, “[t]o comply with, or act 
under the authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(7). A public body entering executive session under Purpose 7 must identify the 
specific law that requires the public body to keep its deliberations confidential. Here, the Board 
could have convened in executive session under Purpose 7 to discuss and vote on applications 
for tax abatement or exemption, as G.L. c. 59, § 60 requires confidentiality of such applications. 
See 2013-96.5, 6 Therefore, although the Board’s discussions of applications for tax abatement or 
exemption could have been conducted in executive session pursuant to Purpose 7, the Board 
failed to identify the applicable statutory purpose for the executive session, either on the meeting 
notice or in the verbal statement made during the meeting prior to entering executive session. 
This failure violated the Open Meeting Law, as it did not give the public proper notice of what 
would be discussed behind closed doors. See OML 2016-20; OML 2015-99. In response to the 
complaint, the Town Administrator has requested that the Board and the Principal Assessor 
review our office’s webinars on the Open Meeting Law. The Town Administrator will also 
continue to work with the Principal Assessor and the Board to ensure that meeting notices 
correctly identify the purposes for which the Board anticipates entering executive session.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
provide public access to a meeting and citing an incorrect purpose for executive session. We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the 
Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. In light of the remedial actions already 
taken by the Board, we order no further relief.   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
  
 
5 We encourage the Board to review our Frequently Asked Questions regarding abatements, which can be found at: 
https://www.mass.gov/info-details/frequently-asked-questions-about-the-open-meeting-law 
6 If a board of assessors discusses an application for tax abatement or exemption in executive session under Purpose 
7, “to comply with, or act under the  authority of, any general law,” citing G.L. c. 59, § 60 as the statute requiring 
confidentiality, the minutes may be withheld as long as that statute’s confidentiality restrictions apply. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 21(a)(7), 22(f); G.L. c. 59, § 60.  

===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 