===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 21, 2015 
OML 2015-95 
Victoria B. Caldwell, Esq. 
Assistant City Solicitor 
29 Highland Avenue 
Salem, MA 01970 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Caldwell: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Kayla Kirkpatrick, dated April 24, alleging 
that the Salem School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 17, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated April 16. In her complaint, Ms. Kirkpatrick alleges that the 
Committee failed to respond to her Open Meeting Law complaint in the manner required by law. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the meeting notice and 
draft minutes of a Committee meeting held on April 6. 
We find the facts as follows. On February 18, Ms. Kirkpatrick filed an Open Meeting 
Law complaint with the Committee. On this same date, the Committee's secretary gave a copy 
of the complaint to Attorney Caldwell.2 On March 2, Attorney Caldwell responded to Ms. 
Kirkpatrick's complaint, stating that the complaint was untimely because it was not filed with the 
Committee within 30 days of the alleged violation being reasonably discoverable. Attorney 
Caldwell did not consult with the Committee before sending this response. On April 23, our 
office issued a letter declining to review Ms. Kirkpatrick's complaint, as it was untimely. See 
OML Declination 4-23-15 (Salem School Committee). 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
After Ms. Kirkpatrick filed the present complaint on March 17, the Committee held a 
meeting on April 6. The meeting notice lists the following anticipated topic: "Discussion on 
Open Meeting Law Inquiries." During this discussion, the Committee voted to adopt Attorney 
Caldwell's March 2 response as the official response of the Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law provides that complainants may file complaints with the public 
body alleged to have violated the law.3 G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3). The law then 
requires that the body "review timely complaints to ascertain the time, date, place and 
circumstances which constitute the alleged violation." 940 CMR 29.05(4) (emphasis added). 
Within 14 days of receipt of such a complaint, a public body must review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the 
complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 
29.05(3), (5). The chair of the public body must disseminate copies of the complaint to the 
members of the public body, and the public body must meet to review the complaint and 
formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority. See OML 2012-90. 
Here, Attorney Caldwell responded to Ms. Kirkpatrick's February 18 complaint prior to 
the Board's review of that matter. Attorney Caldwell informed us that she did so because she 
was able to immediately determine that the complaint was untimely. While we encourage public 
bodies to review all complaints to determine whether the allegations have merit, because the law 
requires public bodies to review and respond only to timely complaints, we find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law by failing to review this matter before counsel 
responded. 940 CMR 29.05(4). 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ms. Kayla Kirkpatrick 
Salem School Committee 
3 As an alternative, three or more registered voters may bring a suit in Superior Court to enforce the Open Meeting 
Law. G.L. c. 3OA, § 23(f). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 