===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
March 12, 2012 
OML 2012-19 
Kent Songer, Superintendent 
Town of Templeton 
Sewer Department 
33 Reservoir St. 
Baldwinville, MA 01436 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Songer: 
On October 28, 2010, this office received a complaint from Ms. Linda McClure 
alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the Templeton 
Board of Sewer Commissioners (the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that 
for two successive monthly open meetings, the September 7, 2010 meeting and the one 
before it on August 2, 2010, the minutes of these meetings were incomplete. For periods 
during which the recording secretary was not present, no minutes were taken and no tape 
recording covered the full meeting. This resulted in a "gap" in the minutes. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 28, 2010. The Board's 
response to the complaint was received by this office on October 14, 2010. 
Following the receipt of the Board's response, our office requested and received 
copies of the following materials related to the August 2, 2010 and September 7, 2010 
meetings: the notices, agendas and minutes of the two open sessions; also audio 
recordings of the open sessions, to the extent available, although the audio recording of 
the September 7, 2010, meeting was not totally understandable. 
After reviewing these materials, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law and order, pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, that the Board create, review, and 
make public the complete minutes of the August 2, 2010 and September 7, 2010 open 
session meetings to the best of its ability, through whatever means are available, 
including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Board held an open meeting on August 2, 2010. The recording secretary, 
who usually attends these meetings, was not present; however, a recording device was 
used to record the conversations and events of that meeting. At some point during the 
meeting, the recording device stopped functioning. At a later date, the recording 
secretary created minutes of the meeting based on the tape recording. Accordingly, the 
minutes were silent at to the portion of the meeting during which the recording device 
was not functioning. Based on what she was later told, the recording secretary noted in 
the minutes that the meeting adjourned at 6:30 P.M. 
On September 7, 2010, the Board held another open meeting. Once again, there 
was a gap in the meeting minutes. According to the minutes, this monthly meeting 
opened at 4:33 P.M. and closed at 6:57 P.M. At 5:42 P.M., the recording secretary was 
asked to leave the room. The tape recording of the meeting continued for a period of 
time, was shut off for a while, and was then turned back on. However, when one 
operating side of the tape was full, the taping stopped and recording was not thereafter 
resumed. Thus, there were two gaps in the meeting minutes during the period when the 
recording secretary was absent from the room. At 6:18 P.M., the recording secretary was 
called back into the meeting. 
In its response to the complaint, the Board explained that the gaps in the 
September 7, 2010 minutes occurred during discussion of the Templeton Personnel 
Policy and hiring procedures as they related to the Sewer Department. The Chairman 
suggested to the recording secretary that she leave the room and instructed that the tape 
be turned off because he thought the subject would upset her. 
DISCUSSION 
The purpose of the Open Meeting Law is to ensure transparency in the 
deliberations on which public policy is based. Because the democratic process depends 
on the public having knowledge of the considerations underlying governmental action, 
the Open Meeting Law requires, with some exceptions, that meetings of public bodies be 
open to the public, and also that prior to a meeting, the public be able to inform itself of 
the nature of the matters to be discussed at that meeting. See  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), (b); 
McCrea v. Flaherty,  71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008). 
A. Failure to Maintain Minutes of Open Sessions 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all public bodies "create and maintain 
accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time 
and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, 
a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
This applies not only to all meetings, but also to all portions of each meeting. Further, 
while the minutes need not contain every word spoken, they must reflect the totality of 
the discussion that occurred, including any votes or other action taken by the body. $ee 
2 
===PAGE 3===
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Where there is a complete gap in the minutes, these requirements 
cannot be met. 
We acknowledge that sometimes public business can involve the discussion of 
sensitive topics. Nevertheless, the Open Meeting Law is absolutely clear that public 
bodies must maintain accurate minutes of the entirety of their deliberations in order to 
achieve the purpose of transparency in the formulation of public policy, as noted above. 
Here, the gaps in the minutes of the August 2, 2010, and September 7, 2010, meetings 
left the public without information to which it is entitled by law. 
It appears that it is the Board's practice to record its meetings both with notes 
taken by a (natural) person and also with an electronic recording device. If the person 
leaves the room, there is a risk that the record of the meeting will be incomplete should 
the recording device fail. As a best practice, therefore, we recommend that in the future 
the Board either recess in such situations until the person taking the notes returns, appoint 
another person to take the record of the meeting while the regular person is absent, or 
utilize more than one recording device to ensure that technical difficulties do not result in 
a lack of record of the meeting's proceedings. 
B. Failure to Provide Notice with Sufficient Specificity 
Although not raised by the complainant, we note that the notices for the August 2, 
2010 and September 7, 2010 meetings were not sufficiently specific. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in advance of a meeting and include, 
a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity 
when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 
Both the August 2, 2010 and the September 7, 2010 meeting notices contained the 
topic "SUPERINTENDENT'S REPORT," and in each case the topic was followed by a 
statement that the Superintendent had his own items to be discussed, without any 
description of what those items might be. This was not sufficiently specific for purposes 
of the Open Meeting Law. With regard to standing items such as this, best practice 
dictates that the Chair make reasonable efforts to ascertain what the Superintendent plans 
to discuss and include all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the meeting notice. 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public body guess what will 
occur during a meeting. But the chair does need to list those topics that he reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Furthermore, we note that several topics for discussion appeared on the agendas 
for the two meetings at issue, but were not listed on the posted meeting notices. If a 
meeting topic is proposed after the meeting notice is posted, public bodies are encouraged 
to update their posting to provide the public with as much notice as possible of what 
3 
===PAGE 4===
subjects will be discussed during a meeting. Although a public body may consider a 
topic that was not listed in the meeting notice if unanticipated, the Attorney General 
strongly encourages public bodies to postpone discussion and action on topics that are 
controversial or may be of particular interest to the public if those topics were not listed 
in the meeting notice. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons described above, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to take complete minutes of its open session meetings on August 
2, 2010 and September 7, 2010, and we order immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law. We further order the Board to create, review, and make public the 
missing portions of the August 2, 2010 and September 7, 2010 open session meeting 
minutes, to the best of its ability through whatever means are available, including the 
memories and individual notations of the attendees. This should occur as soon as 
possible, and in all events no later than thirty (30) days following the receipt of this 
determination. We acknowledge that a significant amount of time has passed since these 
meetings occurred, and that creation of a complete record may not be possible. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this complaint. We now 
consider this matter closed. Please feel free to contact me at (617) 963-2451, should you 
have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: 	 Linda McClure 
4 