===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
June 7, 2017 
OML 2017-92 
Carolyn Murray, Esq. 
KP Law, PC 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on April 13, alleging that the 
Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 21, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 8.2 In his complaint, Mr. 
Harris alleges that the notices for the Board's January 24 and February 14 meetings lacked 
sufficient detail and that the Board's January 24 meeting minutes are inaccurate. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include sufficient detail in its meeting minutes. We find no violation with respect to 
the sufficiency of the meeting notices, however. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board's 
January 24 and February 14 meetings. 
We find the facts as follows. In the winter of 2017, the Board was in the process of 
drafting and approving a backlog of minutes from meetings held in 2015 and 2016. To assist 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. 
2 Our office granted the Board's request for an extension of time to respond to the complaint. In its response, the 
Board contends that the complaint was not properly filed because it was sent to the chair's work email address, 
copying the Town Clerk. This is a proper form of service under the Open Meeting Law. See 940 CMR 29.01(4) 
("All complaints.. .that must be sent to another party shall be sent by one of the following means: first class mail, 
email, hand delivery, or by any other means at least as expeditious as first class mail.") 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
in clearing the backlog, individual Board members volunteered to draft certain sets of minutes 
as soon as possible. Prior to its January 24 and February 14 meetings, the Board chair did not 
know which particular sets of minutes would be ready for the Board's review. Accordingly, 
he listed the topic on both notices as, "Review/Accept Minutes." During both meetings, the 
Board approved some of the backlog.3 The January 24 meeting minutes reference the Board's 
review of "some of the missing minutes from 2015 & 2016," but do not reference the specific 
meeting dates. In response to this complaint, the Board revised its minutes to include those 
specific meeting dates. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list topics on a 
notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.4 We generally consider a topic 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. 
The complaint alleges that the January 24 and February 14 meeting notices should 
have identified the specific meeting minutes to be reviewed and approved. While we agree 
that notices should generally include this detail, the Board chair did not anticipate approving 
any specific meeting minutes during those meetings. Rather, in an effort to remedy the 
backlog of missing minutes as quickly as possible, the Board chair anticipated reviewing any 
meeting minutes that individual Board members had completed in time for the meeting. 
Because the Board chair did not anticipate which minutes would be ready for review until the 
meetings began, the generic topic, "Review/Accept Minutes" was sufficient in this instance 
and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2016-103; OML 2015-25. 
The complaint also alleges that the January 24 meeting minutes should have identified 
the specific meeting minutes reviewed and approved during the meeting. In response to this 
complaint, the Board agreed that the minutes should have included this detail and thus revised 
the minutes accordingly. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2013-64; OML 2012-106 ("minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend 
the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred"). We 
commend the Board for its remedial efforts. We note that meeting minutes must also list 
those documents used during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2016-36. Where a 
document is physically present, verbally identified, and the contents are discussed by the 
members of a public body during a meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open 
Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 2012-42. We encourage the Board to further revise 
its minutes to include a list of documents used during the meeting. 
3 In OML 2017-71, our office found that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to approve 
meeting minutes in a timely manner. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to provide sufficient detail in its January 24 meeting minutes. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements, and we caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: George Harris, Esq. 
Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 