===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 1, 2016 
OML 2016 - 119 
Jeffrey Blake, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Blake: 
This office received two complaints from Jeanne Golrick on May 5, alleging that the 
Montague Board of Health (the "Board of Health") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaints were originally filed with the Board of Health on or about 
March 22 and March 31, and you responded, on behalf of the Board of Health, to the 
complaint by letter dated April 13. In her complaints, Ms. Golrick alleges that a quorum of 
the Board deliberated at meetings of the Montague Board of Selectmen (the "Board of 
Selectmen") without posting notice of a joint meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board of Health did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board 
of Health's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board of Selectmen's 
meetings held on March 21 and March 30. 
We find the facts as follows. The Board of Health is a three-member public body, 
thus two members constitute a quorum. The Board of Selectmen is also a three-member 
public body. Two individuals, Christopher Boutwell and Mike Nelson, serve on both public 
bodies. Hence, a quorum of both boards may be present whenever one meets. During the 
Board of Selectmen's March 21 meeting. Health Agent Gina McNeely presented the status 
of draft Board of Health regulations concerning noise control. The meeting notice described 
'All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
the topic as, "Gina McNeely, Director Board of Health Review of Noise Regulations." 
According to the minutes, Rich Kuklewicz, the third Selectmen who is not also a member of 
the Board of Health, ran this portion of the meeting. Mr. Kuklewicz, Ms. McNeely and 
several members of the public discussed the proposed regulation which, Ms. McNeely noted, 
would be subject to a formal hearing process conducted by the Board of Health. The other 
two Selectmen, who are members of the Board of Health, did not actively participate in the 
discussion. 
On March 30, the Board of Selectmen held a joint meeting with the Montague 
Finance Committee to discuss the budget for the upcoming Town Meeting. The Town 
Administrator recommended various reductions in Town Department budgets during this 
discussion. One of the Departments was the Health Department. 
DISCUSSION 
In general, meetings of a public body must be noticed and open to the public. G.L. 
c. 3OA, § 20(a),(b). A meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter 
within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A deliberation is "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A "quorum" is, 
generally, a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id 
The complainant alleges that a quorum of the Board of Health deliberated during the 
March 21 and March 30 Board of Selectmen's meetings without posting notice of a joint 
meeting. These complaints highlight a unique quandary for both boards because a quorum 
of both boards may be present whenever one meets. We have issued prior guidance in the 
context of a quorum of a parent body also sitting on its subcommittee. Where that occurs, 
we have said that a quorum of a parent body may sit on a subcommittee, but it may 
only discuss matters within the subcommittee's jurisdiction." See OML 2013-155.2 The 
same guidance applies here. 
As the Town's executive authority, the Board of Selectmen has broad jurisdiction 
over matters of policy in Town. See OML 2011-16. Because of its role, we find that the 
Board of Selectmen has a policy interest in regulations that would impact the Town, such as 
the proposed Board of Health regulation discussed at the March 21 meeting. In this 
instance, the Health Agent directed her presentation on the proposed regulation to the Board 
of Selectmen, not the Board of Health. Although, in effect, a quorum of the Board of Health 
was present for this discussion, these two individuals were acting in their capacity as 
members of the Board of Selectmen. To the extent that there is concern that the two 
selectmen may have also been acting in their capacity as Board of Health members, it is 
important to note that they did not participate in the discussion. Accordingly, the Board of 
Health did not deliberate on a matter within its jurisdiction and therefore no joint meeting 
was necessary. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Likewise, the Board of Selectmen's discussion about the budget during its March 30 
meeting is clearly a matter within its jurisdiction as it is charged with preparing the Town 
Meeting warrant which includes the annual Town budget. Simply because part of its 
discussion concerned the Health Department budget does not transform it into a matter 
within the Board of Health's jurisdiction. To the contrary, the Board of Health has no 
authority over the Town budget. Again, the overlapping members of the Board of Selectmen 
were acting in their capacity as selectmen, and not as members of the Board of Health. 
Accordingly, we find that the Board of Health did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to post notice of the March 30 meeting. We note, however, that the composition of 
these two boards could create future instances of overlap in business within both 
jurisdictions that would require notice of a joint meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board of Health did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jeanne Golrick 
Montague Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 