===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 15, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 229 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Layla G. Taylor, Esq. 
Sullivan, Hayes & Quinn, LLC  
Layla.Taylor@sullivanandhayes.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Taylor: 
 
This office received a complaint from Susan Voss on May 10, 2023, alleging that the 
Northampton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about March 28, 
2023, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 17, 2023. We 
understand the primary concern of the complaint to be that the Committee has failed to timely 
create and approve executive session minutes. The complaint raises additional concerns which 
for the reasons explained below, we decline to review.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely create and approve executive session minutes. In reaching this determination we 
reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response, the request for further 
review and additional documents provided by the Complainant. We also communicated with 
Counsel for the Committee
1 and reviewed additional information provided by the Committee.  
 
To begin, the complaint raises concerns about the sufficiency of and redactions to various 
meeting notes provided to the Complainant in response to her request for such. To the extent 
these concerns were intended to be construed as alleged violations of the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review them. The Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, only. The Open Meeting Law 
does not govern the production or sufficiency of notes kept for the purpose of creating meeting 
 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes; instead, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and maintain accurate 
meeting
 minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Likewise, a request for documents other than meeting 
minutes falls under the Public Records Law, not the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-126, 
n.4; OML 2014-45; OML Declination 7-16-20 (Greater Lowell Technical School Committee); 
OML Declination 1-31-22 (Weymouth School Committee).2 Therefore, we decline to review 
whether the Committee’s notes are sufficient or whether the notes were properly redacted.  
 
Although we decline to review these issues, we note that while the Open Meeting Law 
requir
es that a public body release executive session minutes once the executive session purpose 
has expired, a public body may still redact or withhold minutes subject to the exemptions to the 
Public Records Law, G.L. c. 4 § 7, or where discussions may be protected by the attorney-client 
privilege. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The Division of Open Government may review, under its 
Open Meeting Law enforcement authority, whether an executive session purpose remains 
ongoing such that minutes, or portions thereof, may continue to be withheld pursuant to the Open 
Meeting Law. However, concerns about the propriety of redactions made in accordance with the 
Public Records Law should be directed to the Public Records Division in the Secretary of the 
Commonwealth’s Office. See OML 2021-143; OML 2020-120 (finding that the executive 
session purpose had been served but noting that “we offer no opinion as to whether the attorney-
client privilege or an exemption to the Public Records Law may allow the Committee to continue 
to redact all or portions of the minutes at issue”).   
 
Next, we turn to the allegation that the Committee has failed to timely create and approve 
exe
cutive session minutes. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body create and 
approve meeting minutes, for both open and executive sessions, in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 22. “Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 
29.11. Whenever possible, we recommend that the minutes of a meeting be approved at the next 
meeting. See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133. Approval of executive session minutes is a 
separate and unrelated obligation from the requirement that executive session minutes be 
periodically reviewed to determine whether they should be released to the public. See OML 
2019-115. This initial approval of executive session minutes is to approve the minutes as an 
accurate record of what occurred at a particular executive session and does not mean that the 
minutes are approved for release to the public. 
 
In re
sponse to a request from our office for information, the Committee has provided a 
table showing that it has unapproved and undrafted executive session minutes for meetings going 
back to 2018. Therefore, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
We understand that the Committee is undertaking efforts to address the backlog of executive 
session minutes, and we appreciate the Committee’s efforts. However, in March of this year we 
found that the Committee had similarly violated the Open Meeting Law with respect to open 
session meeting minutes. OML 2023-33. We find it concerning that despite our finding and 
guidance in OML 2023-33 the Committee has not resolved its backlog of executive session 
minutes.  
 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
As we did in OML 2023-33, we order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law. Additionally, we order the Committee, within 30 days of the date of 
this letter, to approve all past executive session minutes that have been created but not yet 
approved. We also order the Committee, within 90 days of the date of this letter, to create and 
approve the remainder of the outstanding executive session minutes.3 Finally, we order the 
Committee to certify in writing to this office that it has complied with each portion of this order 
pertaining to the creation and approval of minutes. We believe that the Committee now 
understands its obligation under the Open Meeting Law to create and approve meeting minutes 
in a timely manner; therefore, we do not order the Committee to attend a training. However, we 
caution the Committee that a future similar violation may result in the finding of an intentional 
violation and the imposition of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per intentional violation. 
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mayor Gina- Louise Sciarra, Chair, Northampton School Committee  
(via email: mayor@northamptonma.gov)  
Northampton School Committee  
(via email: northampton-school-committee@northampton-k12.us) 
Pamela Powers, City Clerk (via email: cclerk@northamptonma.gov) 
Susan Voss (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 We remind the Committee that executive session minutes must be released once the purpose for the executive 
session has been served. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). Additionally, a public body or its chair or designee must, at reasonable 
intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of those minutes is 
warranted. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Although “reasonable interval” is not defined by the law, our office has found a 
quarterly review or a review every six months to be appropriate. See OML 2019-45; OML 2017 104. At the meeting 
following each periodic review, the public body must announce which executive session minutes will be released 
and which will continue to be withheld, and such announcement must be included in the minutes of that meeting. Id.   
