===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 28, 2015 
OML 2015-199 
Margaret T. Downey 
Compact Administrator 
Cape Light Compact 
P.O. Box 427 
Barnstable, MA 02630 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Downey: 
This office received a complaint from Eric Bibler, dated October 15, alleging that the 
Board of Directors of the Cape Light Compact (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board: 1) interfered with Mr. 
Bibler's ability to audio record its September 16 meeting; 2) refused to provide Mr. Bibler with a 
printed copy of meeting exhibits during the same meeting; and 3) was hostile toward Mr. Bibler 
during his attempt to address the Board on the same date. The complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on September 28. The Board responded by letter dated October 16. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed emails addressed to 
our office by Mr. Bibler, dated October 20 and November 4. We reviewed a November 12 email 
from Cape Light Compact Administrator Margaret Downey to our office.2 Finally, we spoke 
with Mr. Bibler by telephone on October 29 and November 4, and with Board Counsel Jeffrey 
Bernstein by telephone on November 10. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held a meeting on September 16. Prior to the 
start of the meeting, the Board's staff distributed to the Board members printed copies of 
documents to be used during the meeting. Mr. Bibler, who is not a member of the Board, asked 
1 All dates refer to the year 2015. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
I) 5EIJJ 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
===PAGE 2===
for a copy of the handouts. The staff member distributing the documents denied Mr. Bibler's 
request. 
The meeting room was arranged with the Board sitting around a conference table and 
audience members sitting in rows facing the table. Mr. Bibler attended the meeting, and 
intended to record the meeting with a small audio device. Mr. Bibler informed the Chair that he 
intended to record and then placed the small recording device on the conference table in front of 
the Chair. After Mr. Bibler placed his recording device on the table. Compact Administrator 
Margaret Downey moved the device to the other end of the table. A Board member then placed 
the device on top of a teleconference speaker, further away from where Mr. Bibler had originally 
placed the device. Mr. Bibler then retrieved the device and put it back on the conference table in 
front of the Chair, and explained that he wanted to place the device at the head of the table to 
make sure that he was able to record the comments of the Chair and other speakers. Board 
members and staff again moved the recording device down the table. Mr. Bibler protested, and 
then Ms. Downey explained that he would not be able to place his device anywhere on the table. 
Mr. Bibler then retrieved the device, which was turned off, and recorded the remainder of the 
meeting from his seat in the audience, about 15-20 feet away from the main table. 
During the public comment portion of the meeting, Mr. Bibler asked to address the 
Board. Mr. Bibler attempted to ask the Board questions. The Chair stated that Mr. Bibler's 
questions went beyond the scope of public comment, and moved on to the next agenda item. 
DISCUSSION 
1. While we Encourage Public Bodies to do so, the Open Meeting Law does not Require 
that Public Bodies Distribute Copies of Documents used during a Meeting. 
Documents and exhibits that are used by a public body at an open or executive session 
meeting "shall, along with the minutes, be part of the official record of the session." G.L. c. 
3OA, § 22(d). Furthermore, all documents and exhibits that are used during an open session 
meeting "shall be public records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any 
of the exemptions" to the public records law, although certain material may be exempt from 
disclosure to the public as personnel information. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(e). Although documents 
used by a public body during an open session meeting must be provided in response to a public 
records request, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the public body 
affirmatively provide copies of those documents to persons in attendance at a meeting. Further, 
if the documents are requested by an attendee during the meeting, the public body's response is 
governed by the Public Records Law, which requires only that the public body respond to the 
request within 10 days. See G. L. c. 66, § 10(a-b); 950 CMR 32.05(2). Here, therefore, the 
Board was not required to provide Mr. Bibler with the records he requested during the meeting, 
and therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by declining to do so. 
Although we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law, we strongly 
encourage public bodies, whenever feasible, to provide meeting attendees with copies of all 
documents it intends to discuss. Particularly where viewing such documents would be helpful to 
following the conversation during the meeting, providing copies of documents that the Board 
2 
===PAGE 3===
intends to discuss promotes transparency and public access to government deliberations. We 
understand from Compact Administrator Downey that Board meeting packets, which contain the 
documents typically distributed during meetings, will now be available to the public during the 
Board's meetings and that all meeting materials will be posted to the Compact's website 
following each Board meeting. We commend the Board for adopting this policy. 
2. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Imposing Reasonable Restrictions 
on Mr. Bibler's Recording Location. 
After notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio 
recording of an open session meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any 
medium, subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and 
operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(f). Here, Mr. Bibler set his recording device on the table at the beginning of the Board's 
September 16 meeting. The Board and staff members then moved his device, and identified the 
teleconference speaker as the official recording location. There was argument and disagreement 
between Mr. Bibler and the Board. Ultimately, Mr. Bibler was allowed to record the meeting, 
though not in the manner and with the device placement he sought. 
The Board may restrict the recording location during a meeting, so long as the restrictions 
are reasonable. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(f). Here, the Board's restriction requiring the recording device 
to be placed at the end of the meeting table near the teleconference speaker was a reasonable 
restriction because the recording device was able to pick up the sound from the Board's 
discussions from that location. Because Mr. Bibler was able to record the meeting, and because 
the restrictions that the Board imposed on the placement of Mr. Bibler's recording device were 
reasonable, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
We note that since the complaint was filed, the Board has adopted a written policy for the 
placement of recording devices. We hope that adherence to this policy will prevent such 
conflicts in the future, 
3. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law bv Restricting Mr. Bibler's 
Participation during Public Comment. 
The Open Meeting Law states that no person shall address a meeting of a public body 
without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of the chair, be silent. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(g). Mr. Bibler attempted to address the Board during the public comment period of 
the Board's September 16 meeting by asking the Board members questions. While the Board 
may choose to do so, the Board is not required by the Open Meeting Law to entertain questions. 
Here, the Chair decided to not entertain Mr. Bibler's questions and moved on. Because the Chair 
may decide who can address Board, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by refusing 
to entertain Mr. Bibler's questions. See OML 2015-12 (finding that it was within the chair's 
discretion to limit participation during the public comment period); OML 2014-23; OML 2013-
64; OML 2012-59.3 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
As a final matter, we note that much of Mr. Bibler's complaint focuses on what he feels 
was the Board's hostile tone and actions toward him. The Open Meeting Law does not mandate 
that public bodies adopt a particular tone when conducting business. Nevertheless, we 
encourage both parties to make a concerted effort going forward to cooperate in ensuring that 
members of the public have the full and unobstructed access to meetings to which they are 
entitled, and that the Board is able to conduct its public business efficiently. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Cape Light Compact Board of Directors 
Eric Bibler 
Jeffrey S. Bernstein, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 