===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 5, 2018
OML 2018 - 142
Arthur Frank, Jr., Esq.
Law Offices of Arthur D. Frank, Jr.
209 Bedford St., Ste. 402 
Fall River, MA 02720
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Frank:
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins, both dated June 25, 2018, 
alleging that the Swansea Library Board of Trustees (the “Board”) and the Swansea Library 
Director Search Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board and Committee on June 25, and the 
Board and Committee each responded by letter dated July 16. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins 
alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by forwarding only one library 
director candidate for the Board’s consideration in open session, and that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by accepting the one final candidate for the library director position and not 
conducting public interviews of candidates.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
conducting preliminary interviews and then narrowing the candidate pool to a single candidate in 
executive session. However, we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s and 
Committee’s responses, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also spoke 
with the complainant on October 1, and with the Board’s and Committee’s counsel on October 1 
and 3, 2018.2 In addition, we reviewed open and executive session minutes of the Committee’s 
April 12, May 17, June 11, and June 14 meetings, and open session minutes of the Board’s June 
21 meeting.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Board and the Committee are distinct entities and they 
are considered separately for the purposes of the Open Meeting Law; the Committee is a
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016.
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
subcommittee of the Board. The Committee was created for the purpose of interviewing and 
evaluating applicants for the position of library director.
The library director position was first posted in early 2018. Following the initial posting, 
the Committee met in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 on April 12 to review the 
candidates, and, unsatisfied with the applicant pool received, the Committee voted to extend the 
search until May 7.3 The Committee met again in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 on 
May 17, reviewed the candidates, and narrowed the pool of candidates. Then, on June 11 and 
14, the Committee met in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 to conduct interviews of four 
candidates. Following the final candidate interview on June 14, the Committee discussed, 
scored, and ranked the candidates. The Committee determined that there was a clear lead 
candidate, and significant separation between that candidate and the others. The Committee 
discussed the possibility of reopening the search, but ultimately decided not to do so, in part 
because the search had already been extended once. In executive session, the Committee voted 
unanimously to present the lead candidate to the Board, but to inform the Board that it had the 
option of bringing in additional candidates from the existing pool, beginning the search process 
over, or accepting the recommendation of the Committee.
The Board then met on June 21 to consider the Committee’s recommendation for the 
library director position. The Board was aware that it had the option of bringing in additional 
candidates or re-opening the search, but also acknowledged the Committee’s position that there 
was significant separation between the lead and the other candidates. The Board discussed the 
backgrounds of the candidates in open session, and then voted unanimously to select the 
Committee’s recommended candidate for the library director position. Therefore, neither the 
Board nor the Committee conducted any candidate interviews in open session. The new library 
director began work on July 2.
The complainant filed the present complaints with the Committee and the Board on June 
25, 2018. On July 16, the Committee and the Board responded by separate letters. Both letters 
represented that “there were only two candidates for the position, one of whom withdrew during 
the process” and that “the Board voted to accept the remaining candidate.” However, the 
minutes of meetings of both the Committee and the Board unequivocally state that the 
Committee forwarded only one candidate to the Board because there was a unanimous lead 
candidate and significant separation between the lead candidate and the others.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be properly noticed 
and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. The Law’s purpose is to “eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding deliberations 
and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of Southbridge, 
376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The law 
defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including
3 As discussed further below, a preliminary screening committee may convene in executive session to consider or 
interview applicants for employment or appointment. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8) (“Purpose 8”).
2

===PAGE 3===
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction...” Id
A public may enter executive - or closed - session for any of ten enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which allows a 
public body to enter executive session to “consider or interview applicants for employment or 
appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will 
have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause 
shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to 
consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.” G.L. c. 30A,
§ 21(a)(8). The Law defines “preliminary screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants 
conducted by a committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing 
to the public body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.”
G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The preliminary screening process may consist of several steps, such as 
consideration of written applications or resumes, selection of some for further consideration, and 
interviews for the purpose of narrowing the field of candidates to two or more finalists. See 
Gerstein v. Superintendent Search Screening Committee, 405 Mass. 465, 471-73 (1989); 
Commonwealth v. Board of Selectmen of the Town of Westborough, 2006 WL 3292678 (Mass. 
Super. 2006). Nothing in the statute suggests that “preliminary screening” is limited to a one­
time only review of an applicant’s credentials. See Gerstein, 405 Mass, at 471. Once an 
applicant has passed a preliminary screening and been referred to the full body as a finalist, 
however, all further consideration of the applicant must occur in open session. OML 2016-105; 
OML 2013-155.4
The Committee Violated the Open Meeting Law by Holding Improper
Executive Sessions to Reduce the Number of Candidates to a Single Finalist
The complaints allege that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by submitting 
a single applicant for consideration by the Board, and that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law by accepting the one final candidate for the library director position and not conducting 
public interviews of candidates. We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
entering into executive session for an improper purpose when it conducted interviews and then 
narrowed the field of candidates to one. The Open Meeting Law requires a preliminary 
screening committee, such as the Committee, that enters into executive session under Purpose 8 
to narrow the field to two or more candidates for consideration by the parent public body. See 
Town of Westborough. 2006 WL 3292678; OML 2016-105; OML 2013-155. Here, the 
Committee conducted all interviews in executive session, and then voted in executive session to 
narrow the field of candidates to one. We credit the Committee’s statement in its minutes that 
the decision was unanimous, and that there was significant separation between the lead candidate 
and the others. Nevertheless, the Open Meeting Law requires that a preliminary screening 
committee may enter into executive session only for the purpose of selecting multiple finalists to 
forward to the parent body, not to make the ultimate selection. This requirement serves an 
important function for public transparency; without it, a preliminary screening committee is 
essentially free to make final hiring decisions behind closed doors, subject only to an up or down 
vote by the parent public body. Indeed, that is precisely what occurred here, and we therefore
4 Open Meeting Law determination letters are available at the Attorney General’s website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session for an 
improper purpose.
Although we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by entering into 
executive session for an improper purpose, where the Board’s actions were all taken in public, 
we do not find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee - but not the Board - violated 
the Open Meeting Law. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
(\ttd
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Patrick Higgins
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
4
