===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 11, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 66 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Gregg Corbo, Esq. 
KP | LAW  
101 Arch Street, 12th Floor  
Boston, MA  02110  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Kimberly Branch on December 1, 2020, alleging 
that the Carver Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on September 
19, and the Commission responded by letter dated October 22, pursuant to an extension granted 
by our office.1 In her complaint, Ms. Branch alleges the Commission deliberated after a public 
meeting was adjourned. 
Following our review, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed 
meeting minutes of the Commission’s August 19, September 2, and October 21 meetings. 
Finally, we spoke by phone with Commission Members Savery Moore, James Nauen, and Daniel 
Badger on separate occasions in March and April 2021. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Commission is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum.2 On August 12, the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be 
held on August 19. On August 19, the Commission convened in open session to conduct various 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
business, including two new public hearings. Four Commission members were present: Chair 
Savery Moor, Vice Chair James Nauen, Member Dan Badger and Member Alan Germain. The 
Commission members sat on a semicircular dais in a room that holds 25-30 spectators under 
normal conditions. One of the public hearings related to a property on Pine Street, owned by 
Edaville Holdings. The applicant sought to construct two common driveways on the property to 
access four building lots. The proposed driveways were near abandoned cranberry bogs on the 
property, coming within 65- and 100-foot buffer zones established by the Carver Wetlands 
Protection Bylaw. The applicant therefore sought from the Commission a variance from 
complying with the Carver Wetlands Protection Bylaw. Arthur Borden, the applicant’s agent, 
gave a presentation to the Commission about the driveways. Members of the Commission asked 
questions and members of the public shared concerns about the future development of the 
property. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Commission voted 4-0-0 to close the public 
hearing. The Commission then voted 2-1-1 to approve the Notice of Intent, with Member 
Germain abstaining. Finally, the Commission voted on the variance itself, which was denied by a 
1-2-1 vote, with Member Germain again abstaining. The Commission then voted 4-0-0 to 
adjourn the meeting.  
 After the adjournment, the four members of the Commission began packing up and all 
members of the public exited the meeting room, believing that the denial of the variance was 
final. In one part of the room, Member Germain spoke with Mr. Borden, the applicant’s agent, 
about how the project plans might be amended to address the Commission’s concerns. Shortly 
thereafter, the applicant himself, Jon Delli Priscoli, entered the room and spoke to a second of his 
agents, Brenda Johnson, about what had occurred during the meeting. During this conversation, 
Member Nauen left the room. After speaking to Ms. Johnson, Mr. Delli Priscoli approached 
Member Badger and addressed him in a loud voice, expressing his displeasure that the variance 
was not approved. Mr. Delli Priscoli’s comments were loud enough to be heard throughout the 
meeting room and into the hall through the open doors. Member Badger replied that he was sorry 
Mr. Delli Priscoli was upset, that Member Badger’s “no” vote was not personal, as it was guided 
by the Carver Wetlands Protection Bylaw, and that his vote should not have been a surprise as 
his questioning during the public hearing supported his vote. Mr. Delli Priscoli angrily responded 
to Member Badger’s assertion that his vote was “not personal,” and then loudly enumerated what 
he considered to be Mr. Delli Priscoli’s contributions to the Town of Carver. Member Badger 
then left the room.  
 
 While these interactions were occurring, Chair Moore remained in the meeting room and 
spoke with the Commission’s Agent, Brooke Monroe, concerning the next steps for the Edaville 
Holdings project in light of the Commission’s denial of the variance. The August 19 meeting was 
Chair Moore’s first meeting as Chair. It is customary for the Commission to continue a public 
hearing where Commission members raise significant concerns so that an applicant may have 
time to make changes to the application to satisfy the Commission’s concerns. Chair Moore 
explained to Ms. Monroe that he wanted to provide Edaville Holdings with an opportunity to 
present an amended proposal at the following Commission meeting, on September 2. Chair 
Moore and Ms. Monroe agreed that Ms. Monroe would contact the applicant’s Agent, Mr. 
Borden, to talk about how the application could be amended to incorporate the Commission’s 
feedback. Chair Moore and Ms. Monroe agreed that the public hearing should be put on the 
notice for the Commission’s next meeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Though the Edaville Holdings variance was denied at the August 19 meeting, the public 
hearing on the same variance was continued at the Commission’s next meeting, September 2. 
Mr. Borden, the applicant’s agent, presented an amended plan which he believed would address 
the Commission’s concerns. Many abutters and other members of the public expressed their 
concerns about the new proposal. Mr. Delli Priscoli spoke in favor of his application. At the 
conclusion of the discussion, the Commission voted 4-0-0 to close the public hearing. The 
Commission then voted on the variance itself, which was approved by a 3-1-0 vote, with no 
members abstaining. The Commission then moved on to other business.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144.3 In 
addition, a quorum of a public body may not continue to discuss public body business after an 
open meeting is adjourned. See OML 2020-165; OML 2014-6.  
 After the Commission’s August 19 meeting, Member Nauen left the room very shortly 
after the meeting was adjourned. As three members of the Commission – a quorum – remained, 
we must consider whether any of the discussions that took place in the meeting room after the 
August 19 meeting had adjourned constituted deliberation outside of a posted meeting. The Open 
Meeting Law does not restrict an individual’s right to make comments to individuals who are not 
public body members. See OML 2018-153; OML 2017-111. Here, we find that each of the three 
Commission members who remained in the room spoke individually with persons who were not 
members of the Commission. Chair Moore’s and Member Germain’s conversations were not 
audible to the other Commission members, and were not communications “between or among a 
quorum” of the Commission. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. To determine whether the third conversation 
between Member Badger and Mr. Delli Priscoli, which at times was audible throughout the 
room, was deliberation we must examine the communicator’s intent. See OML 2017-111; OML 
2015-15 (Open Meeting Law “restricts communication between or among a quorum of a public 
body outside of a meeting, indicating that the communicator’s intent must be examined.”). 
During that conversation, Member Badger sought to explain his reasoning and concerns to Mr. 
Delli Priscoli, not to communicate with the other Commission members. We therefore find that 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the three separate conversations held after the meeting were not communications “between or 
among” a quorum of the Commission. 
 Finally, although not specifically raised in the complaint, we find no evidence of any 
other meetings or communications between a quorum of the Commission regarding the variance 
application. We therefore find that the Commission did not deliberate outside of a posted 
meeting and did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Kimberly Branch (via e-mail:  
 Carver Conservation Commission c/o Chair Savery Moore  
 (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
