===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 178 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Alexandra H. Kalkounis 
Worcester City Solicitor 
law@worcesterma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kalkounis: 
 
This office received a complaint from David Webb on March 3, 2025,1 alleging that the 
Worcester City Council Public Safety Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about 
January 26, and you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated February 25.  The 
complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s January 21 meeting and a Chairman’s 
Order issued regarding statements made at the January 21 meeting did not accurately reflect the 
statements and discussion at the meeting.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
as alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, and the complainant’s request for further review of the complaint.  We 
also reviewed a video recording of the relevant portion of the Committee’s January 21 meeting, 
minutes of the Committee’s January 21 and February 25 meetings, and minutes of the City 
Council’s January 28 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
The Committee held a meeting on January 21 during which it engaged in discussion 
regarding the Worcester Police Department’s use of small Unmanned Aircraft Systems (drones).  
The complainant was recognized to speak and he requested that the City provide a report on the 
Worcester Police Department’s use of other municipalities’ drones, which he stated occurred 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
during 2023 and 2024 before Worcester acquired its own equipment.  The complainant 
emphasized that he was not seeking information on Worcester’s use of its own drones, which is 
otherwise documented, but was specifically seeking a report on the Worcester Police 
Department’s use of drones owned by other cities and towns in 2023 and 2024.  The 
Committee’s Chair, Councilor Kathleen Toomey, stated that she would “do a chairman’s order 
request to report use of other city and/or town drones from 2023-2024.”  Thereafter, draft 
minutes of the Council’s January 21 meeting were prepared which included the statement, 
“Chairperson Councilor Toomey moved for the following Chairman’s Order: ‘Request City 
Manager request Police Chief provide City Council with a report detailing sUAS/Drone usage in 
other cities and towns from 2023 to 2024.’”  A draft order to the City Council was prepared with 
the same language.   
 
The complainant filed the Open Meeting Law complaint on or about January 26, on the 
basis that the draft minutes and order did not accurately reflect the exchange at the Committee’s 
January 21 meeting insofar as the Chair had committed to request a report regarding Worcester’s 
use of other cities’ and towns’ drones, but the draft minutes and order referred to a report 
regarding the use of drones in other cities and towns.  On January 28, the City Council held a 
meeting at which time it amended the order to request a report “detailing instances when the 
Worcester Police Department (WPD) used sUAS/Drone from other cities and towns from 2023 
to 2024.”   
 
The Committee approved minutes of its January 21 meeting on February 25, which was 
its first meeting following the January 21 meeting.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When reviewing minutes for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement.  See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.
2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not 
attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred.  See 
OML 2025-18; OML 2012-106.  Minutes of open sessions must be approved in a timely 
manner.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations specify 
that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.”  940 CMR 
29.11.  
 
The
 complaint alleges that the minutes of the Committee’s January 21 meeting and the 
Chair’s order regarding the report on the use of other cities’ and towns’ drones did not accurately 
reflect the discussion during the Committee’s January 21 meeting.  We find no violation 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
regarding the sufficiency or accuracy of the minutes of the Committee’s January 21 meeting 
because the minutes were still in draft form at the time the complaint was filed.  Under the Open 
Meeting Law, a public body is responsible for the sufficiency and accuracy of final, approved 
minutes as it may revise draft minutes at any point prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies 
or add detail.  See OML 2024-42; OML 2018-20.  Accordingly, because the minutes of the 
Committee’s January 21 meeting were in draft form at the time of this complaint, we find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by creating insufficient minutes.  See OML 
2014-13; OML 2014-7.  We note that the draft minutes were indeed amended before timely 
approval on February 25 to accurately reflect the Chairman’s Order.  
 
Finally
, we decline to review the allegation that the initial Chairman’s Order did not 
accurately reflect the order that the Committee’s Chair committed to issuing at the January 21 
meeting.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; we do not review whether a public body has complied with 
other laws or rules, including the body’s own rules. See OML Declination 9-19-2025; OML 
2020-41 (“Because our review concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we 
decline to review and offer no opinion on allegations that the Committee violated other laws or 
its own policy.”).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law as alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
the Committee or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely,   
 
 
       Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General   
Division of Open Government   
   
  
cc:  David Webb (via email: ) 
 Worcester City Clerk (via email: clerk@worcesterma.gov) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
