===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 19, 2019 
OML 2019-154
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Assistant Superintendent Luff:
This determination addresses a complaint that Ronald Alexander filed with this office on 
July 8, 2019, alleging that the Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 During the prior year Mr. Alexander filed over 600 
separate Open Meeting Law complaints with the Committee; this determination addresses the 
complaint that Mr. Alexander identifies as #605. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on May 22.1 You responded, on behalf of the Committee, on June 5.
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in several 
ways pertaining to its April 22 meeting. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Committee 
violated the OML by improperly entering into executive session. Mr. Alexander says that the 
Chair failed to inform other attendees of recordings being made, that the meeting agenda failed 
to state “open session” to account for the open session held prior to the executive session, and 
that the Chair failed to declare that having the discussion in open session would have a 
detrimental effect on the Committee’s bargaining position.
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
announce that the meeting was being recorded at the beginning of the first open session. We find 
that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the remaining 
allegations.
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s 
response and the request for further review. We also viewed a video of the meeting provided to 
us by the Committee.
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2019.

===PAGE 2===
I. The Committee’s April 22 Meeting Notice Contained Sufficient Notice that an Open
Session Would be Held.
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose of the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of 
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30A,
§§21 (b)(l)-(3). The complaint alleges that the April 22 “meeting agenda does not state ‘open 
session’ to account for the short open session prior to the executive session.” However, the 
notice for the Committee’s April 22 meeting states in bold at the top that the meeting began at 
7:00 PM, and further stated “7:00PM Open Meeting; 7:05PM Executive Session, 7:15PM Open 
Session (times are approximate).” We therefore conclude that it was clear that the Committee 
would hold a short open session prior to convening in executive session and find no violation of 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-101.2
II. During the April 22 Meeting, the Committee’s Chair made the Required
Announcement that having its Collective Bargaining Strategy Discussions in Open
Session may have a Detrimental Effect on the Committee’s Bargaining Position.
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose to the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of 
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30 A,
§§ 21 (b)(l)-(3).
The complaint alleges that the Chair failed to declare that holding the discussion in open 
session would have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s bargaining position. On the video, 
the Chair states before the vote to enter executive session that the Committee will discuss 
strategy regarding collective bargaining with EAN, Units A and B, and that having such 
discussions in open session may have a detrimental effect on the Committee’s bargaining 
position. We therefore conclude that the Chair made the required statement regarding detrimental 
effect prior to convening in executive session and find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.
III. The Committee’s Chair Made an Announcement at the Beginning of the Second April
22 Open Session that the Meeting was Being Recorded.
The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]t the beginning of the meeting the chair shall inform 
other attendees of any recordings.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). The requirement that the Chair inform 
attendees of any recording includes any recording made by the public body or members of the 
public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes. See 
OML 2017-162; OML 2012-24.
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
The complaint alleges that the Chair failed to announce at the beginning of the meeting 
that the meeting was being recorded. As explained above, the Committee convened its meeting at 
7:00PM and met briefly in open session to take attendance and conduct the procedural steps for 
entering executive session. A few attendees were present for this portion of the meeting. The 
Committee reconvened in open session at approximately 7:30 pm, after holding its executive 
session, and at that point the Chair announced that the meeting was being recorded. Because the 
Chair technically did not inform attendees “[a]t the beginning of the meeting” that the meeting 
was being recorded, we are constrained to find that the Committee violated the law. See OML 
2019-129; OML 2019-80; OML 2014-39. We note, however, that where the Chair made the 
required announcement at the start of the main open session portion of the meeting, albeit not at 
the beginning of the meeting itself, the violation was de minimis. See OML 2019-129; OML 
2014-39.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the Chair announced that the meeting was being recorded at the start of the Committee’s 
main open session, rather than at the beginning of the meeting. We find that the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Committee that a 
determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963- 2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
------
Sarah Chase
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
cc: Ron Alexander
Natick School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
3
