===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 15,2013 
OML 2013-93 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
12th Floor 
Boston, MA 02110 
Re; Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
This office received a complaint from Frank Maxant, dated August 30, 2012, alleging 
that the Ayer Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Mr. Maxant, who is also a member of the Board, originally filed his complaint with the 
Board on June 15, 2012 and the Board responded by letter dated July 26, 2012, following an 
extension of time to respond granted by this office. In his complaint, Mr. Maxant alleges that the 
Board convened in executive session for an improper puipose on June 5, 2012.1 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because it entered into executive session on June 5, 2012 for a proper purpose. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the notice for the Board's June 5. 2012 meeting; executive session 
minutes for the June 5, 2012 meeting, which were publicly released by the Board at its July 9, 
2012 meeting; Mr. Maxant's original June 15, 2012 complaint to the Board and August 30, 2012 
complaint to our office; and the Board's July 26, 2012 response to Mr. Maxant's original 
complaint. We also reviewed email correspondence between Mr. Maxant and Board Chair 
James Fay, between Board member Pauline Conley and our office, and between Town 
Administrator Robert Pontbriand and our office. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. On June 5, 
2012, the Board convened in open session for the purpose of entering into executive session. 
1 Mr. Maxant specifically asks that the Board "[o]ffer letters of apology from Selectmen to [the property] owners ... 
apologizing for not inviting them to attend [the June 5, 2012 meeting]." We note that, with the exception of certain 
executive session discussions, the Open Meeting Law does not require that public bodies provide notice of meetings 
to specific groups or individuals, such as affected property owners. See OML 2013-79; OML 2011- 41. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Board posted notice of this meeting on May 31, 2012 and listed agenda topics for both the 
executive and open sessions. The notice for the executive session contained two agenda items: 
"1. Exemption #3 (Collective Bargaining) Review and Recommended Approval of DPW 
Contract M.O.A." and "2. Exemption #3 (Litigation Strategy) Properties Enforcement." After 
the Board called the meeting to order in open session, the Board voted to enter into executive 
session with Town Administrator Pontbriand present for the entire meeting, Department of 
Public Works (DPW) Superintendent M. Wetzel present for the first agenda item only, and 
Building Commissioner Gabriel Vellante present for only the second agenda item. The Chair did 
not state that discussing the topics in open session would have a detrimental effect on the 
Board's litigating position, until after entering into the executive session. 
During discussion of the second agenda item in executive session, the Board noted that it 
had previously authorized Commissioner Vellante and the Board of Health to consult with Town 
Counsel on legal strategy for enforcement of building and health codes for certain properties. 
The Board identified specific problematic properties and discussed past correspondence with 
those properties' owners going back to 1998. The Board also discussed the need to inspect the 
properties, and the legal action it could take to enforce the inspections as well as health codes. 
Selectman Maxant objected to this part of the executive session because there was "nothing 
being discussed that cannot and should not be discussed in public, open session." Chair Fay 
disagreed because "the Board would be discussing potential legal action against these properties 
and the Board needed to discuss its strategy and to do so publically [sic] would harm the position 
of the Board and the Town." The meeting adjourned after Chair Fay assigned Commissioner 
Vellante to compose a report summarizing all actions taken for the properties discussed, with 
"prompt action to be taken by June 19111," though the minutes do not describe what the Board 
meant by "prompt action." The Board then adjourned the executive session and reconvened in 
open session. 
The Complainant, Frank Maxant, is a member of the Board, and a tenant at one of the 
properties the Board discussed. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law permits public bodies to enter 
executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, and the public body may only address a 
narrow range of subjects related to the cited enumerated purpose(s) when in executive session. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a); see District Attorney for the Northwestern District v. Selectmen of 
Sunderland, 11 Mass. App. Ct. 663, 666 (1981) (using executive session as blanket reason to 
deliberate on matters other than those pertaining to cited enumerated purpose impermissible). 
One permissible reason for holding an executive session is Purpose 3, which permits a 
public body "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
2 
===PAGE 3===
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); see also OML 2011-47.2 This purpose offers 
the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not 
sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Ferryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. 
Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05; Attorney General's Open Meeting Law Guide, March 12, 
2013 at page 8. 
Chair Fay stated during the June 5, 2012 open session meeting that "the Board would be 
discussing potential legal action" in executive session. The complainant asserts that Purpose 3 
was not appropriate for the discussion that took place because "[tjhere was no litigation extant. 
There was no litigation planned. There was no litigation threatened. No litigation or litigation 
strategy was discussed." The properties discussed in executive session during the conversation 
about agenda item two had been at issue for more than ten years. While the issues related to 
these properties were well known, the Board's discussion of whether to initiate legal action in 
order to inspect the properties and enforce health and building codes was not. It was not 
unreasonable for the Board to believe that an open discussion of its legal options could have been 
detrimental to the Board's litigating position, therefore it was appropriate to discuss the issue in 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2012-76; OML 2012-05; OML 2011-30.3 
Furthermore, although Mr. Maxant is both a Board member and a tenant of one of the properties 
discussed during the June 5, 2012 executive session, his presence did not mean that the Board 
couldn't assert that having the discussion in open session could be detrimental to its litigating 
position. A public body may conduct its executive sessions with the presumption that its 
members will respect the confidentiality of its executive sessions. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or 
believe any facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/opemneeting. 
3 While not raised by the complainant, we note that while the meeting did convene in open session and Board 
members properly took a roll call vote to enter into executive session, the Chair of the Board did not state, as 
required by Purpose 3, that discussing the topics in open session would have a detrimental effect on the Board's 
litigating position, until after entering into the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). That statement serves 
to build public confidence that the secrecy inherent in executive session is absolutely warranted. When a public 
body does not follow these requirements, the public has no means of judging the propriety of the executive session. 
See OML 2012-55; OML 2011-30. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Frank Maxant, Selectman 
Robert A. Pontbriand, Town Administrator 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 