===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       October 10, 2025 
  
       OML 2025 – 159 
 
 
Timothy A. Reilly, Esq. 
Legal Counsel to the City Council 
City of Chicopee 
17 Springfield Street 
Chicopee, MA 01013 
 
By email only: treilly@chicopeema.gov 
 
 RE:  Open
  Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reilly: 
 
This office received a complaint from Lisa Bienvenue on June 2, 2025, alleging that the 
Chicopee City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on April 25, and you responded, on behalf of 
the Council, by letter dated June 18.
2  The complaint alleges that the Council convened in 
executive session for an improper purpose during a meeting held on March 31.   
 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Council’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  In addition, we reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the 
Council meeting held on March 31.   
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2025. 
2 We remind the Council that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for 
any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened 
in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and 
the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of 
the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
3 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is to “discuss the reputation, 
cha
racter, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose1”).  
The individual to be discussed in such executive session must be notified in writing by the public 
body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, and be afforded the right to be 
present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his or her own 
behalf, the right to have an attorney present for the purpose of advising but not participating in 
the meeting, and the right to cause an independent record to be created of said executive session 
by audio-recording or transcription, at the individual's expense.  Id.   
 
The Council posted notice for a meeting to be held on March 31 at 6:00 P.M. and listed 
six topics on the notice.  Two topics were “Roll Call vote to adjourn into Executive Session to 
discuss a complaint against Karla Bourassa” and “Confirmation of the appointment of Karla 
Bourassa as Chief Human Resource Officer.”  The March 31 meeting was held as planned.  The 
Council first convened in open session and heard from residents and city employees who voiced 
support for Karla Bourassa and urged the Council to confirm her appointment as Chief Human 
Resource Officer.  The Council then convened in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1 to 
discuss a complaint filed against Ms. Bourassa and announced that it would reconvene in open 
session.
4  After reconvening in open session, the Council discussed the appointment with some 
Councilors explaining why they would confirm the appointment.  Ultimately, the Council 
unanimously voted to confirm the appointment of Karla Bourassa as Chief Human Resource 
Officer.   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
4 We note that during a Council meeting held on March 10, a former City Councilor inquired, during public 
comment, about an investigation into the Human Resources Department.  Later in the meeting, the Mayor informed 
the Council that he had hired Karla Bourassa as the Chief Human Resources Officer and asked the Council to 
confirm the appointment.  The Council voted by majority vote to schedule an executive session meeting to discuss 
an investigation into the Human Resources Department, which had been raised by the former City Councilor, and to 
refer the appointment of Ms. Bourassa to the Human Resources Committee.  To the extent the complaint alleges that 
the Council did not refer the appointment to the Human Resources Committee as it had voted to do during its March 
10 meeting, the Division of Open Government’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, and we therefore decline to review allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-32; OML 2019-85; OML Declination 4-25-16 (Montague Board of Selectmen); 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Council’s March 31 executive session 
discussions.  After reviewing the executive session minutes, we find that the discussions 
pertained to a complaint against a particular individual and therefore were appropriate for 
executive session under Purpose 1.  See, e.g., OML 2022-139; OML 2015-105; OML 2013-82; 
OML 2012-119; OML 2011-6.  We find that the Council did not conduct a performance review 
or interview any individual for the position of Chief Human Resource Officer during the 
executive session as alleged in the complaint.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (Purpose 1 allows a 
public body to convene in executive session to “discuss the reputation, character, physical 
condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual . . . .”) 
(emphasis added); see also OML 2019-57. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Lisa Bienvenue – By email only:  
Chicopee City Council c/o President Frank Laflamme – By email only: 
flaflamme@chicopeema.gov 
Chicopee City Clerk Keith Rattell– By email only: krattell@chicopeema.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
