===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 10, 2014 
OML 2014-130 
Femand J. Dupere, Esq. 
Dupere Law Offices 
94 North Elm Street, Suite 307 
Westfield, MA 01085 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dupere: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Paula Quinn, dated September 29, alleging 
that the Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School Board of Trustees (the Board) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with 
the Board on July 18, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 28.2 In 
her complaint, Ms. Quinn alleges that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Board's response; 
the request for further review filed with our office; and correspondence between Board Chair 
Mindy Chang and the Board's legal counsel. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a nine-member public body which meets at 
regular intervals to manage the affairs of the Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School 
(PVCICS). The Trusteeship Committee, a subcommittee of the Board, evaluates candidates and 
makes recommendations to the Board for new trustee appointments. 
On May 22, the Trusteeship Committee held a meeting, during which it discussed 
potential trustee candidates for recommendation to the Board. Ultimately, the Trusteeship 
Committee decided on two candidates to pass on for consideration by the Board. The Trusteeship 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 In the interest of clarity, we will hereafter refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
3 The complaint also alleges that Chair Chang improperly subsumed the activities of the Trusteeship Committee into 
the full Board. This allegation does not concern compliance with the Open Meeting Law, thus we decline to 
consider it. See OML 2012-47. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Committee voted that these two candidates should be brought forward to the Board during a 
meeting of the Board on June 19. Following the May 22 meeting, Board Chair Mindy Chang 
sought advice from the Board's legal counsel regarding the selection process used by the 
Trusteeship Committee. Ultimately, Chair Chang did not invite the two candidates to be 
interviewed by the Board. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations by public bodies occur in properly 
noticed meetings that are open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 21. Deliberation 
is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is defined as a simple majority 
of the members of a public body. Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of an open meeting to 
decide not to interview the two candidates recommended by the Trusteeship Committee. We 
find no evidence to support this claim. Chair Chang did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
consulting PVCICS legal counsel outside of a meeting because she acted alone and there was no 
communication between or among a quorum of the Board. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. As for the 
decision not to interview the two applicants, we likewise find no evidence of deliberation outside 
of an open meeting. The Board denies any outside deliberation, and, absent any evidence to the 
contrary, we credit the Board's assertions. See OML 2013-133. Therefore, we find that the 
Board did not deliberate outside of an open meeting. 
As a final matter, we note that the Board failed to respond to Ms. Quinn's Open Meeting 
Law complaint. Unless an extension of time has been requested, a public body must, within 14 
business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the 
Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney General's Office of any remedial action taken. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). Here, the original complaint was filed with the 
Board on July 18. Therefore, the Board should have responded no later than August 7. Because 
the Board did not request an extension and responded in a letter dated August 28, we find that 
the Board failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law's requirements. See OML 2013-94. We 
take this opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
DISCUSSION 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. 
Assistant Attorney General 
===PAGE 3===
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ms. Paula Quinn 
Pioneer Valley Chinese Immersion Charter School Board of Trustees 
This determination was issued pursuant to G,L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 