===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 3, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 184 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Patrick Ahearn, Esq. 
Town Counsel 
Town of Westwood 
pahearn@townhall.westwood.ma.us  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Ahearn: 
 
This office received a complaint from Kathleen Sullivan Wallace on April 8, 2024,
1 
alleging that the Westwood FS1 Working Group (the “Working Group”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint also alleges that Assistant Town 
Administrator Molly Fitzpatrick, Select Board member Marianne LeBlanc Cummings, and 
Attorney Ahearn
2 violated the Open Meeting Law. The complaint was originally filed with the 
Town on or about March 12, and you responded on behalf of the Working Group by letter dated 
April 1. The complaint alleges that the Working Group is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Working Group’s response, the request for further review, and video recordings of 
Select Board meetings held on February 5, February 26, March 11, March 25, April 16, May 13, 
May 28, June 10, and August 19.
3 We also communicated with Assistant Town Administrator 
Molly Fitzpatrick and Attorney Ahearn. 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 Video recordings of Select Board meetings may be found at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1-
oG8l6PVYYiG3brZ6yd-UlU0yui48DO.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On January 17 the Town of Westwood held a Special 
Town Meeting during which the Town voted to authorize funds for the development of design 
and bid documents for a new Fire Station 1. The Town hired Dore + Whittier as the architecture 
firm for the project and Vertex as the Owner’s Project Manager (“OPM”).
4 At some point in 
January or February, Town Administrator Christopher Coleman created the Working Group, 
which held its first meeting on March 28. The Working Group consists of the following 
members, most of whom are Town employees: Town Administrator Christopher Coleman; 
Assistant Town Administrator Molly Fitzpatrick; Fire Chief Steven Lund; Assistant Fire Chief 
Colin McCarthy; Deputy Fire Chiefs Bob Valuzi, Andy Mahan, Christian Pierce, and Robert 
Kilroy; Director of Community and Economic Development Nora Loughnane; Procurement 
Manager Michelle Miller; Building Commissioner Mike Perkins; Director of Facilities James 
McCarthy; Select Board member Joseph Previtera; Permanent Building Committee Chair John 
Cummings; and Permanent Building Committee member Nancy Hyde.  
 
Although the Working Group has a set membership it does not have a quorum 
requirement. Members attend Working Group meetings based on their interest in the subjects to 
be discussed and their availability. Meetings proceed regardless of the number of members in 
attendance. At a typical meeting, the architects present a design plan to the group and solicit 
feedback about the plan. The architects then determine what, if any, feedback to incorporate into 
the plan. The Working Group does not take formal votes and does not issue formal advisory 
opinions or recommendations to the Select Board. 
 
At various Select Board meetings we reviewed, the Town Administrator and Assistant 
Town Administrator updated the Board on the project, including the efforts of the Working 
Group. During the Select Board’s June 10 and August 19 meetings the Select Board received 
updates and presentations on the project from representatives of Vertex and Dore + Whittier, 
respectively. The projected goal is for a final plan to be brought to Town Meeting for a vote in 
2025. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
As a preliminary matter, we note that as of the time that the Open Meeting Law 
complaint was filed, the Working Group had not yet held any meetings, and the complaint does 
not allege that the Working Group actually violated the Open Meeting Law. Rather, the 
complaint asserts that the Working Group should be determined to be a public body subject to 
the Open Meeting Law. Although we could decline to review the complaint since it does not 
allege any actual violations of the Open Meeting Law, we take this opportunity to provide 
guidance to the Working Group and the Complainant regarding whether the Working Group is a 
public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
The Complainant asserts that the Working Group is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law because it serves a public purpose and because “[t]he Select Board allowed the 
 
4 Another group consisting of some of the same members as the Working Group helped interview and select the  
OPM. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
creation of the [Working Group] to advise or make recommendations to the Select Board.” The 
Compl
ainant further asserts that the Working Group “is in the purview of the Select Board.” The 
Working Group asserts that it is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law because it 
was not formally created by the Select Board, is not empowered to act collectively, and is not 
within government. The Working Group’s response further suggests that it falls within the 
judicially recognized exception to the definition of “public body” found in Connelly v. School 
Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991). In Connelly, the Court held that where an 
individual public official creates a committee to advise that official on a decision that they have 
the sole authority to make, that committee is not subject to the Open Meeting Law. Connelly, 
409 Mass, at 235.   
 
The Open Meeting Law defines “public body” as “a multip
 le-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law further provides 
“that a subcommittee shall include any multiple-member body created to advise or make 
recommendations to a public body.” Id. 
 
To determine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:  
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of 
“public body”;  
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and  
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”  
 
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.
5 
 
In the past, our office has declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to advisory groups 
that
 fail the second prong of the public body analysis. For example, we concluded that the 
Department of Early Education and Care Provider Working Team was not a public body for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even though it was “within government” and served a 
“public purpose,” because the group “has no quorum requirement – [staff] meet with and solicit 
feedback from whichever members show up to meetings.” OML 2011-42. Similarly, we found 
that the Winchester Master Plan Working Group, which was comprised of town officials and 
public body members and was “formed to assist the architect in exploring design options and 
developing consensus around a preferred option for each school facility,” was not a public body 
where it lacked a set membership. OML 2017-145. Finally, we found that the North Adams 
Airport Planning Committee was not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law because 
“although the Planning Committee had a defined membership, and therefore a quorum could be 
calculated, it did not act collectively.” OML 2022-54. Instead, we found that the Planning 
Committee’s meetings provided an efficient way for Committee members to provide feedback 
and share their expertise with the private engineering firm hired to create a master plan for the 
airport. Id. 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
To begin, we note that although the Complainant asserts that the Select Board “allowed 
the creation of the” Working Group, we find no evidence showing that the Select Board in fact 
created the Working Group or instructed the Town Administrator to create the Working Group. 
Next, we find that the Working Group shares certain qualities with the Care Provider Working 
Team, the Master Plan Working Group, and the Planning Committee discussed above. Although 
the Working Group has a defined membership, and therefore a quorum could be calculated, it 
does not have a quorum requirement; meetings are held regardless of how many members attend. 
Additionally, the Working Group does not take votes or issue any collective work product or 
advisory opinions. Instead, the Working Group provides feedback to the architects regarding the 
proposed design for the fire station. Because the Working Group does not act collectively, we 
find that it fails the second prong of the public body analysis and therefore is not a public body 
subject to the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Because the Working G
 roup fails the second prong of the public body analysis, we need 
not analyze whether the Working Group satisfies the first and third prongs or whether the 
Working Group falls within the Connelly exception.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Working Group is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Working Group or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Christopher Coleman, Town Administrator (via email: ccoleman@westwoodma.gov) 
Molly Fitzpatrick, Assistant Town Administrator  
(via email: mfitzpatrick@westwoodma.gov)  
Marianne C. LeBlanc Cummings, Westwood Select Board  
(via email: marianne.leblanccummings@townhall.westwood.ma.us) 
Dottie Powers, Westwood Town Clerk (via email: dpowers@westwoodma.gov) 
Kathleen Sullivan Wallace (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 