===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 14, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 124 
 
 
Jennifer King, Esq. 
Valerio Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Avenue, Suite 300 B 
Westwood, MA 02090 
 
By email only:  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney King: 
 
This office received a complaint from Judith Crosby on June 7, 2021, alleging that the 
Sharon School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on March 14, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 2.  The complaint alleges that a 
quorum of the Committee deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting. 
 
We resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, the complaint 
filed with our office requesting further review, and the notices and minutes of the Committee 
meetings held on March 10 and March 17, as well as video recordings of the March 10 and 
March 17 meetings.2  We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.     
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Committee meetings held on March 10 and March 17 is available here: 
https://sharontv.com/schedules/government-meetings/. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
During a March 10 meeting, the Committee voted to reorganize and appointed a new 
chair and vice chair.  One member of the Committee individually contacted five other members 
the day before the meeting asking for support to reorganize and remove the current chair.  The 
Committee admits that it deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting when six of the seven 
members, a quorum, discussed the reorganization of the Committee and the possible removal of 
the chair the day before the March 10 meeting.  Discussions concerning the leadership of a 
public body is a matter of public business that must be reserved for an open meeting.  See OML 
2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2011-38.3  Because a quorum of Committee members 
communicated with each other outside of a noticed meeting to agree on the leadership of the 
Committee, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with specific intent to violate the 
law, acted with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement, or has previously been advised 
that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  This Office has not issued any 
determinations that advised the Committee that deliberating among a quorum of members 
outside of an open meeting on a matter of Committee business violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
However, on March 12, after the improper communications that occurred between the 
Committee members regarding reorganization were revealed but before the complainant actually 
filed the complaint at issue, one member of the Committee stated in an email to the complainant, 
“Stop hassling our colleagues.  I am happy to admit that on Tuesday I broke open meeting law to 
contact my colleagues . . . .  I asked every member if they would support me if I made the motion 
to reorganize.  This is on me.  File the complaint against me and leave everyone else out of it.”  
We do not find such a statement to be evidence of a specific intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law’s requirements but rather a ready willingness to acknowledge and accept responsibility for 
the improper communications.  In addition, the Committee took prompt remedial action when, 
during the Committee’s next meeting on March 17, the Chair provided an overview of the Open 
Meeting Law and the Committee again revoted to reorganize and appointed a new chair and vice 
chair.  Further, five Committee members attended an Open Meeting Law training provided by 
this office on March 23.  As such, we decline to find that this violation was intentional.  We 
commend the Committee for acknowledging its error and taking steps to prevent such violations 
in the future. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting.  We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Judith Crosby – By email only:  
 Sharon School Committee – By email only:  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
