===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 9, 2016 
OML 2016-170 
David J. Sousa, Chair 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen 
10 Pearl Street 
Stoughton, MA 02072 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Sousa: 
This office received two related complaints from John Anzivino alleging that the 
Stoughton Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. Both complaints were originally filed with the Board on August 18.1 When the Board 
did not respond to the complaints, the first was filed with our office on September 19, and the 
second was filed with our office on September 21. After being contacted by our office, the 
Board responded by letter dated October 25. In his complaints, Mr. Anzivino alleges that the 
Board posted an insufficiently detailed meeting notice.2 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's response, and the 
requests for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed notices of Board meetings 
held on July 18, and August 1, 2, 9, and 16. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complaints concern Board meetings that took on July 
18, and August 1, 2, 9, and 16. The notices for these meetings all contained a section described 
as "NEW/OLD BUSINESS." Under this heading, the notices listed various topics to be 
discussed by the Board. The notices did not differentiate old business from new business. 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 The complaints also allege that the Board scheduled a meeting for a weekday "to reduce the number of people who 
might attend the meeting." Even if proven true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law. Accordingly, we decline to review this allegation. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority 
Board of Commissioners.) Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The listing of topics "shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2011-15. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Board's use of the heading "NEW/OLD BUSINESS" 
is not sufficiently detailed to convey to the public which topics listed below are new items before 
the Board for the first time and which have previously come before the Board for consideration. 
We agree that the use of this particular heading may be confusing to members of the public, and 
we advise the Board to discontinue its use on future notices and to clearly state which items are 
old business and which are new business. However, we do not find that this heading rose to the 
level of an Open Meeting Law violation. The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies 
describe topics on meeting notices with specificity. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The present complaints do not allege that the topics listed below the errant heading were 
misleading or otherwise lacking in detail. Accordingly, we find no violation, but we take this 
opportunity to remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
posting sufficiently detailed meeting notices. 
While not raised in the complaints, we note that the Board did not respond to either 
complaint until contacted by our office. Unless an extension of time has been requested, a public 
body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, meet to 
review the complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office, and notify 
the Attorney General of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29,05(5), 
(6). We remind the Board of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincere! 
Kevin WfManganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: John Anzivino 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 