===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 18, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 204 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Brian Barrett, Esq. 
Assistant Solicitor 
brian@barrettkornitsky.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Barrett: 
 
This office received a complaint from City Councilor Anne Manning-Martin on January 
26, 2022, alleging that the Peabody Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about November 12, 2021, and, after an extension of time granted by our office, you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 27, 2021.
1 The complaint alleges that the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting regarding two applications before the Board.  
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board improperly deliberated via email on two occasions. We do not 
find that the Board otherwise deliberated outside of a posted meeting. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, and portions of video recordings for Board meetings held on May 13, May 17, 
June 14, July 19, September 20, October 18, and November 1.
2 We also reviewed additional 
information provided by the Complainant and information provided by the Board in response to 
questions and requests from our office. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Video recordings of Board meetings may be found at https://www.youtube.com/c/PeabodyTV . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
The complaint relates to two applications for comprehensive permits for affordable 
housing developments under General Laws Chapter 40B, and the Board’s decision to assert “safe 
harbor”3 for one project but not the other. The first application was for property located at 40-42 
Endicott Street (the “Endicott Street Project”). The second application was for property located 
at 128 Newbury Street (the “Newbury Street Project”). 
 
The Endicott Street Project  
 
 The Board opened a public hearing for the Endicott Street Project on May 3. After 
receiving correspondence, documents, a presentation, and asking a few questions, the Board 
continued the hearing to June 14.  
 
On May 11, City Councilor Anne Manning-Martin and School Committee member 
Jarrod Hochman sent a letter to the Board, copying Mayor Edward Bettencourt and Director of 
Community Development Curt Bellavance. The letter asked that the Board assert safe harbor 
with respect to the Endicott Street Project and set forth the authors’ reasons for believing that the 
Board could assert safe harbor. The letter also reminded the Board that it had 15 days from the 
May 3 public hearing to assert safe harbor.  
 
On May 11, Carla McGrath, Clerk for the Board, forwarded Councilor Manning-Martin 
and Mr. Hochman’s letter to the full Board via email. Thereafter, Board member Barry Osborne 
responded to Clerk McGrath’s email, copying the full Board, and stated, in part, “[a]s far as safe 
harbor application, I would be all for it. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. As far as the violation 
of the cooling off period, if that is the case, is this application for the comprehensive permit 
properly before Our board.” 
 
Between May 10 and May 11, Director Bellavance exchanged several emails with Phillip 
DeMartino at the Massachusetts Department of Housing and Community Development 
(“DHCD”) asking for information and guidance with respect to asserting safe harbor. Included 
on these emails was Stacey Bernson, Assistant Director of Community Development.  
 
On May 12, Director Bellavance sent Mayor Bettencourt an email explaining that the 
Board had received a letter from Councilor Manning-Martin and Mr. Hochman urging the Board 
to assert safe harbor for the Endicott Street Project. Included on the May 12 email were Board 
Chair Frances Bisazza-Gallugi and Clerk McGrath. In the email Director Bellavance explained 
that because the Board only had 15 days to assert safe harbor, the Board hoped to discuss the 
issue at its next meeting. Director Bellavance also attached to the email notes he drafted 
explaining why he believed that asserting safe harbor would fail. In the email Director 
Bellavance explained that he had discussed this issue with DHCD and that he was prepared to 
 
3 “For purposes of Chapter 40B, ‘safe harbor’ refers to conditions under which a [Zoning Board of Appeals’] 
decision to deny a comprehensive permit will qualify as consistent with local needs and not be overturned by the 
[Housing Appeals Committee], provided the conditions were met prior to the date that the comprehensive permit 
was filed with the [Zoning Board of Appeals].” The Massachusetts Housing Partnership, Chapter 40B Handbook for 
Zoning Boards of Appeal, 15 (March 2017).  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
present at the Board’s next meeting his reasons for believing that an assertion of safe harbor with 
respect to the Endicott Street Project would fail.  
 
On May 13, Mayor Bettencourt sent Chair Bisazza-Gallugi a letter requesting that the 
Board assert safe harbor for the Endicott Street Project.   
 
During the Board’s May 17 meeting the Board voted to accept into the record Councilor 
Manning-Martin and Mr. Hochman’s letter and Mayor Bettencourt’s letter. Chair Bisazza-
Gallugi explained that the letters related to the Endicott Street Project and stated that the Board 
could not discuss the letters that evening because to do so would violate the Open Meeting Law.  
 
During the Board’s June 14 meeting, Chair Bisazza-Gallugi again acknowledged 
Councilor Manning-Martin and Mr. Hochman’s letter and noted a May 17 letter from Mayor 
Bettencourt. Chair Bisazza-Gallugi explained that the letters related to asserting safe harbor for 
the Endicott Street Project. Chair Bisazza-Gallugi then stated that the Board could not assert safe 
harbor for that project. After receiving additional correspondence and an update regarding the 
Endicott Street Project, the hearing was continued to September 20.   
 
Later that same meeting, a member of the public asked about asserting safe harbor. In 
response to this question, Director Bellavance explained that DHCD is responsible for 
determining the date on which the City met the requirements to qualify for safe harbor. Director 
Bellavance further explained that DHCD sent the City a letter explaining that the City met the 
safe harbor requirements as of March 29. Director Bellavance continued, explaining that the 
Endicott Street Project application was received by the City approximately one week before 
March 29 and that the City can only assert safe harbor for applications received after the date on 
which the City qualified for safe harbor. 
 
The continued hearing for the Endicott Street Project took place as scheduled on 
September 20. The hearing consisted of presentations made on behalf of the applicant and public 
comment regarding the project. After some time, public comment became contentious, and the 
Board decided to suspend and continue the hearing until October 18.  
 
At the beginning of the Board’s October 18 meeting, Chair Bisazza-Gallugi announced 
that Member Osborne would read a statement into the record and asked that everyone pay close 
attention because it was important. Member Osborne then explained that he had requested time 
at the meeting so he could clear up some misunderstandings regarding the Endicott Street 
Project. Member Osborne then read from a prepared statement explaining various dates and steps 
related to the application process. Member Osborne then addressed the issue of safe harbor and 
explained that the Board had expressed interest in asserting safe harbor but had learned through 
information and guidance provided by city department heads that the Board could not assert safe 
harbor for the Endicott Street Project.  
 
The Newbury Street Project 
 
On October 4, Director Bellavance emailed Phillip DeMartino at DHCD asking to speak 
regarding a new comprehensive permit application and safe harbor. In the email, Director 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Bellavance stated, in part, “I just want to be prepared to provide the ZBA an explanation if any 
questions come up. Please don’t take this as meaning any decisions were being discussed or 
anything like that. I just want to know and be prepared when I start to get the questions!”  
 
On October 7 Clerk McGrath sent the Board an email explaining that a comprehensive 
permit application had been submitted for the Newbury Street Project. That same day, Member 
Osborne responded to Clerk McGrath’s email, copying the full Board, stating “enough is enough 
we should inform the applicant we will be requesting Safe Harbor or have them withdraw the 
application till we have everything else on our plate settled.” 
 
On November 1, the Board held a meeting during which it opened a public hearing for 
the Newbury Street Project. After the attorney for the Newbury Street Project introduced the 
project, Board member Dan Sencabaugh, reading from notes, stated that the City had reached the 
requirements to qualify for safe harbor on March 29 as determined by DHCD. At the completion 
of his comments, Member Sencabaugh moved to assert safe harbor. There was no discussion. 
The Board then voted unanimously to assert safe harbor.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
We begin by noting that our review is limited to whether the Board deliberated outside of 
a poste
d meeting in violation of the Open Meeting Law; we do not opine as to whether the Board 
could have or should have sought safe harbor for the 40B projects at issue here. Additionally, we 
note that to the extent the complaint alleges various violations related to Board meetings held on 
May 3, May 17, June 14, and September 20—such as members of the public not being allowed 
to speak, letters not being read aloud, and public comment not being allowed until after the 
deadline to assert safe harbor had passed—these allegations are untimely and, even if true, would 
not constitute violations of the Open Meeting Law. Therefore, we decline to review any such 
allegations. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4); OML Declination 2-8-22 (“Violations 
that take place during an open session can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur.”); 
OML Decimation 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).4 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in limited circumstances, “all meetings of a 
public body s
hall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Except in an emergency, “a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines a 
“meeting,” in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within 
the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. “Deliberation” is defined, in relevant part, as “an oral 
or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a 
quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. We have stated in 
prior determinations that unanimous agreement among public body members is insufficient to 
support the inference that those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. See OML 
2019-93; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128. Likewise, we have stated that agreement without 
substantive discussion among public body members or even the lack of substantive discussion 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
prior to a vote is insufficient to support the inference t hat those members deliberated outside of a 
noticed meeting. See OML 2021-158; OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; OML 2013-128. 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting to decide not to 
assert safe harbor for the Endicott Street Project and then again to decide to assert safe harbor for 
the Newbury Street Project. In support of the allegation regarding the Endicott Street Project, the 
Complainant points to many of the facts listed above, in particular the emails exchanged between 
Director Bellavance and Phillip DeMartino at DHCD; the email from Director Bellavance to 
Mayor Bettencourt; and Member Osborne’s statement during the October 18 meeting. In support 
of the allegation regarding the Newbury Street Project, the Complainant points to Director 
Bellavance’s October 4 email to Phillip DeMartino and the fact that the Board voted 
unanimously and without discussion to assert safe harbor for the Newbury Street Project during 
its November 1 meeting.  
 
In response, the Board has consistently asserted that, except for the two emails Member 
Osborne sent to the full Board, the Board did not communicate outside of a posted meeting by 
any means regarding asserting safe harbor for either project. Instead, the Board explains that the 
Board, and Chair Bisazza-Gallugi in particular, became aware that the Board could not assert 
safe harbor for the Endicott Street Project because of the denial by DHCD of an earlier assertion 
of safe harbor for an unrelated project, and through information shared by Director Bellavance. 
Additionally, the Board explains that Member Osborne’s October 18 comment referred to 
Director Bellavance’s June 14 explanation as to why the Board could not assert safe harbor for 
the Endicott Street Project and was not an admission that the Board had deliberated outside of a 
posted meeting, as the Complainant suggests. Finally, with respect to the vote to assert safe 
harbor for the Newbury Street Project, the Board explains that it had been inundated with 40B 
projects and so was particularly motivated to assert safe harbor as soon as it could, which 
happened to be the Newbury Street Project application.  
 
After reviewing all the evidence before us, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law on May 11 and October 7 when Member Osborne emailed the full Board regarding 
asserting safe harbor for the Endicott Street Project and the Newbury Street Project. We do not 
find that the Board otherwise deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding asserting safe 
harbor for the Endicott Street or Newbury Street projects.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law on 
May 11 and October 7 when Member Osborne emailed the full Board regarding asserting safe 
harbor for the Endicott Street and Newbury Street projects. We order the Board’s immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. Additionally, we order the Board, if it has 
not yet done so, to release the May 11 and October 7 emails to the public.
5 
 
 
5  The Board may release the emails either by reading them aloud at an open meeting or by attaching the emails to 
the minutes of an open meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Frances Bisazza-Gallugi Chair, Peabody Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Carla McGrath, 
Clerk for the Board (via email: Carla.McGrath@peabody-ma.gov) 
Anne Manning-Martin (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
