===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 15,2015 
OML 2015-64 
Thomas W. McEnaney, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney McEnaney: 
This office received three related complaints from Mr. David R. Bohanan, dated January 
19, 2015, alleging that the Sutton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Committee 
on November 8, 2014, and, after receiving an extension of time from our office, the Committee 
responded by letter dated January 7, 2015. In his complaints, Mr. Bohanan alleges that the 
Committee met in executive session on three occasions to discuss him and his wife without 
providing them with prior notice of such discussions. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we investigated this matter. Following 
our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching a 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the Committee's response; and the request 
for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed, in camera, minutes of executive 
session meetings held by the Committee on September 26, 2011; October 18, 2011; and October 
1,2012. 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body that meets at 
regular intervals to discuss and act on matters of relevance to schools in the Town of Sutton. At 
issue are meetings held by the Committee on three dates: September 26, 2011; October 18, 2011; 
and October 1, 2012. The meeting notices for these three dates each list the same item: 
"Adjournment to Executive Session." No further information is given regarding the anticipated 
discussions. The Committee entered executive session on all three dates. 
Mr. Bohanan discovered these executive sessions on October 11, 2014 as part of a 
discovery request for information regarding discussions of him and his family related to ongoing 
litigation with the Sutton School District. The minutes of the executive sessions at issue have 
not been released by the Committee, and we will therefore not reveal their contents. However, 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
we note that all three executive session discussions concerned litigation matters that are still 
ongoing. While litigation between the Bohanans and the School District was discussed, neither 
the complainant nor his wife was personally discussed during these meetings. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided 
that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive 
session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which 
the executive session was called." G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3). 
One permissible reason for executive session is "[t]o discuss the reputation, character, 
physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an individual, or to 
discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The individual to 
be discussed in a Purpose 1 executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at 
least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session. Id. The individual must also be afforded 
the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to speak on his 
or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, and the right to 
have an independent record of that meeting made at the individual's own expense. Id. 
Another permissible reason for executive session is "[t]o discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. 
See OML 2014-145; OML 2012-5; OML 2011-30. Litigation must be pending or clearly and 
imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of 
Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-43. When entering into executive 
session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter or bargaining 
unit that it intends to discuss, if doing so will not compromise the executive session purpose. 
See OML 2013-91.1 
Here, the complaints allege that Mr. Bohanan and his wife were discussed during the 
three executive sessions at issue, and that they should have been given notice that they would be 
discussed during these sessions. The only executive session purpose requiring notice, other than 
the general meeting notice, is Purpose 1. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). Following our review, we 
find that none of the executive sessions at issue here was held pursuant to Purpose 1. Instead, all 
three executive sessions were used to discuss ongoing litigation matters and were therefore 
appropriate under Purpose 3. As such, the Committee was not required to provide Mr. Bohanan 
and his wife with notice of these executive sessions. We therefore find that the Committee did 
not violate the Open Meeting Law in the manner alleged in the complaints. 
1 We remind the Board that, generally, a public body must also identify the litigation matter it will be discussing in 
its meeting notice. See OML 2014-50. A public body may withhold the name of the litigation matter if publicly 
disclosing that information would compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. Id. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
We note that the executive session minutes that we reviewed in resolving these 
complaints contained only sparse descriptions of the discussions that took place. Indeed, it was 
necessary to request additional documentation from the Committee in order to understand what 
had been discussed. A public body is required to create meeting minutes with sufficient detail 
and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2014-77; OML 2013-14; 
OML 2013-8; OML 2012-29. We take this opportunity to remind the Committee of its 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely 
-7 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Mr. David Bohanan 
Sutton School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 