===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
March 8, 2016 
OML 2016-32 
Andrew Waugh, Esq. 
Murphy, Hesse, Toomey & Lehane, LLP 
300 Crown Colony Drive, Suite 410 
Quincy, MA 02169 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Waugh: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on October 23, 2015, alleging that 
the Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School District Committee (the Committee) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about September 21, 2015, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the 
complaint by letter dated October 21, 2015. In his complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the 
notice for the Committee's September 21, 2015 meeting lacked sufficient detail about the 
nature of an executive session topic discussed at that meeting. In addition, Mr. Beaty alleges 
that the Committee failed to disclose a personnel contract in open session following that same 
executive session. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notice of and open and executive session minutes from the Committee's 
September 21, 2015 meeting. 
We find the facts as follows. On September 21, 2015, the Committee held a meeting, 
in part, to convene an executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to non-affiliated staff 
contracts." The meeting notice, posted on September 17, 2015, listed the following under the 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
heading "Executive Session": "The Superintendent recommends that the School Committee 
enter into Executive Session, not to return to Public Session, to discuss strategy with respect 
to non-affiliated staff contracts." Prior to the executive session, the Committee approved a 
vote by roll call to "enter into Executive Session, not to return to Public Session, to discuss 
strategy with respect to non-affiliated staff contracts." During the executive session, which 
lasted about 45 minutes, the Committee discussed salary ranges for non-union personnel for 
Fiscal Year 2017. The Committee also briefly discussed the timeline for renewal of the 
Superintendent's contract. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, 
provided that the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the 
executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Way!and, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary under the open 
meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the school committee 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
doing so was proper or improper."). This level of detail about the executive session topic 
should also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b). One puipose for 
executive session is "[t]o conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
nonunion personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with 
nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2) (Purpose 2). 
The complainant challenges the sufficiency of the executive session topic on the 
Committee's September 21, 2015 notice, "[t]he Superintendent recommends that the School 
Committee enter into Executive Session, not to return to Public Session, to discuss strategy 
with respect to non-affiliated staff contracts." Our general guidance is that public bodies 
should identify the specific non-union personnel with whom it is negotiating, both in the 
meeting notice and in the announcement prior to the executive session. See OML 2015-126. 
In this instance, however, because the Committee intended to discuss all non-union personnel 
during its executive session, it did not need to specifically list each and every employee in the 
topic.1 Accordingly, we find that this topic sufficiently described the anticipated executive 
session such that the public had sufficient information to decide whether to attend the 
meeting. See OML 2015-146. Thus, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
With respect to the complainant's second allegation, that the Committee failed to 
execute the final terms of the agreements in open session following its executive session, we 
find the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. As the Committee explained in its 
1 We note some concern about the executive session discussion, however, and remind the Committee that a 
general discussion about salary and compensation is akin to a budget discussion, which must take place in open 
session. See OML 2015-63; OML 2014-30; OML 2013-91. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
response to this complaint, it did not negotiate any contract during this meeting and therefore 
there was no executed contract to disclose in open session following the executive session. 
Accordingly, we find that the Committee did not violate the Law in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. Lhis determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Dennis-Yarmouth Regional School Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 