===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 18, 2020 
 
       OML 2021 – 16 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jennifer King, Esq. 
Valerio, Dominello & Hillman, LLC 
One University Ave, Suite 300B 
Westwood, MA 02090 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney King: 
This Office received a complaint from Charles Kostro on September 24, 2020, alleging 
that the Beverly School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on August 10, and you 
responded on behalf of Committee by letter dated August 25.1 In his complaint, Mr. Kostro 
alleges that the Committee may have deliberated outside of a posted meeting regarding a school 
reopening plan which was proposed by Committee Member Visnick at the Committee’s August 
6 meeting.   
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this complaint. We resolve 
this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request 
for further review. We also reviewed a video of the Committee’s August 6 meeting. Finally, we 
emailed with you and Mr. Kostro on several occasions in January 2021.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The Law defines “deliberation” 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” Id. In addition, a public body may not engage in a serial communication whereby a 
quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting on a particular 
subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See OML 2020-160; OML 2015-3; 2 
McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637 (2008) (private serial communications violate the 
spirit of the Open Meeting Law and may not be used to circumvent the intent of the Law). For 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public 
body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Committee is a seven-member public body, thus four members 
constitute a quorum.  
 At the Committee’s August 6 meeting, Committee Member Visnick presented her own 
school reopening plan after Dr. Charochak, the Superintendent of Schools, gave an extensive 
presentation about three possible school reopening options. The complaint alleges that some 
Committee members may have discussed Member Visnick’s proposal, which had not before 
been seen by the public, ahead of the meeting. In its response, the Committee maintains that 
Member Visnick did not discuss her plan with a quorum of the Committee, either simultaneously 
or serially. Upon further questioning, the Committee’s counsel informs us that Member Visnick 
developed her proposal in the early hours of the morning of August 6 and discussed the proposal 
only with Superintendent Charochak on the day of the August 6 meeting, and not any members 
of the Committee. Committee Chair Able only became aware, through a conversation with 
Superintendent Charochak immediately preceding the start of the August 6 meeting, that 
Member Visnick intended to present her proposal at the meeting.3 The video of the Committee’s 
August 6 meeting dovetails with this account, as several Committee members stated that they 
had not heard of Member Visnick’s proposal until the meeting. The complainant did not identify 
any specific evidence of deliberation and, in our investigation, we did not discover any to 
contradict the Committee’s explanation. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a 
public body’s account of the facts. See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93. We find that Member 
Visnick did not share her proposal with a quorum of Committee members outside of a posted 
meeting, nor did a quorum of the Committee learn about the proposal through serial 
communication. Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
3 The Committee was not required to list Member Visnick’s proposal separately on the Committee’s notice for the 
August 6 meeting, as the Chair did not learn of the proposal until immediately before the meeting and therefore it 
was not an anticipated topic. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2020-172 (“A public body may discuss a truly 
unanticipated topic at a meeting, although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter 
of best practice, table discussion of topics that might be of significant  interest to the public in order to include such 
topics in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting.”)  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Charles Kostro (via e-mail:  
 Beverly School Committee c/o Committee President Rachael Abell (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
