===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 16, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 132 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Devan C. Braun, Esq. 
KP Law 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
DBraun@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Braun: 
 
This office received a complaint from Andrew Spath on May 10, 2024, alleging that the 
Pembroke Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on April 22, 2024, 
and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letters dated May 6 and June 12.
1  The 
complaint alleges that members of the Commission failed to certify receipt of Open Meeting 
Law materials within two weeks of appointment, as required by the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Following review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in ac
 cordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a).2  The Commission acknowledges, and we find, that the Commission violated 
the Open Meeting Law when three members did not complete and sign certification attesting to 
their receipt of Open Meeting Law materials.3   
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of qualification for office, all 
persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed by the attorney general, the 
receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated pursuant to section 25 and a 
copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general explaining the open meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject's obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
3 In a supplemental response, dated June 12, the Commission urges us to decline review of the complaint as 
untimely.  As this argument was not made in the original response, we do not consider it. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
law ... The certification shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and 
understands the requirements of the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.” 
G.L. c. 30A § 20(h).  The Open Meeting Law regulations further define the educational materials 
that must be provided, including a copy of each Open Meeting Law determination issued to the 
public body within the last five years in which our office found a violation.  940 CMR 29.04(1).  
Finally, the regulations clarify that “[a]n individual serving on multiple public bodies must sign a 
certification for each public body on which he or she serves[,]” and that public body members 
“must sign a new certification upon reelection or reappointment to the public body.”  940 CMR 
29.04(4) and (5).  
 
Within four days of receipt of the complaint filed by Andrew Spath, the three 
Commission members who are the subject of the complaint completed and signed the requisite 
certificates.  We note that Commission member Fino Fellini also had certified receipt of Open 
Meeting Law materials in his capacity as a member of other public bodies.  The Commission is 
reminded, however, that certifications must be signed for each public body on which a person 
serves.  Members must be provided with copies of any Open Meeting Law determinations in 
which the particular public body was found to have violated the Open Meeting Law within the 
past five years.  Therefore, materials provided to an individual in their capacity as a member of 
one public body may not be the same as the materials provided in their capacity as aa member of 
another public body.   
 
Among other remedies, the com
 plainant urges us to fine each of the three Commission 
members referenced in the complaint.  The complainant boldly labels their late certifications 
“fraudulent” and calls the violations egregious.  As an initial matter, we note that the Open 
Meeting Law enables the Attorney General to “impose a civil penalty upon the public body of 
not more than $1,000 for each intentional violation.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c)(4).  The Law does not 
provide for civil penalties against individual members of a public body.  In any event, we find 
that the Commission did not intentionally violate the Law.  To the contrary, the Commission 
acted promptly to address its oversight.  To the extent that the certificates do not correctly reflect 
the dates that the signatories qualified as Commission members, any discrepancy resulted from a 
good faith misunderstanding, not fraud. 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617)963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
    
Sincerely, 
 
 
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Andrew Spath ( via email: ) 
 Stephen W. Rider, Esq. (via email: stephen.rider@swrpc.com) 
Pembroke Conservation Commission (via email: mjoyce@townofpembrokemass.org) 
Pembroke Town Manager (via email: wchenard@townofpembrokemass.org) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
