===PAGE 1===
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
November 16, 2018
OML 2018-149
John J. Clifford, Esq.
Clifford & Kenny, LLP 
31 Schoosett Street, Suite 405 
Pembrook, MA 02359
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Clifford:
This office received a complaint from Allan Chiocca on July 26 alleging that the 
Rockland Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§
18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 21, and, after an 
extension of time was granted by our office, the Board responded by letter dated July 18. The 
complaint alleges that, during its June 19 meeting, the Board discussed an anticipated topic 
that was not listed on the meeting notice.
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the notice, meeting minutes, and portions of video 
recordings from the Board’s June 19 meeting.2 Additionally, we reviewed an e-mail from the 
Board’s attorney dated November 6.3
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. At all times relevant to this complaint, Mr. Chiocca was 
the Rockland Town Administrator. On June 15, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on June 19. The Board held the June 19 meeting as planned. Shortly after the meeting 
began, then-Board chair Edward Kimball made a motion “to turn over any evidence to the 
Rockland Police Department to investigate the alleged criminal activities” by Mr. Chiocca. 
The Board’s legal counsel advised that the topic should not be discussed since it was not on
' All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2The meeting video is available here: https://www.youtube.comAvatch?v=pIafB-ztN88.
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.

===PAGE 2===
the agenda. Mr. Kimball continued the conversation nonetheless and made a motion to refer 
the Town’s investigation to the Rockland Police Department. Board member Michael 
O’Loughlin made a motion to take Mr. Kimball’s motion under advisement. The Board then 
voted on and approved O’Loughlin’s motion by a vote of 3-1. Mr. Kimball’s motion was not 
discussed again. In response to this complaint, during its July 31 meeting the Board voted to 
remove Mr. Kimball as chair and voted to accept an opinion from the Board’s legal counsel 
that it had violated the Open Meeting Law by taking the actions described herein.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). A public body must post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed at the meeting.” Id. The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).
The complaint alleges that the Board discussed the ongoing investigation, although the 
topic was not listed on the notice for that meeting. In its response, the Board concedes that 
the chair should not have raised this topic, as it was not listed on the meeting notice. The 
Board also acknowledges that Mr. Kimball anticipated discussing the ongoing investigation, 
as it was a topic of general knowledge in the town. Because the Open Meeting Law requires 
that all anticipated topics be listed on the notice, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by omitting this topic from the notice. See OML 2015-8.4 We note that the 
Board took several remedial steps to address this violation, including participating in an Open 
Meeting Law training in September. We commend the Board for taking these actions.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by discussing a topic during its June 19 meeting that was not listed on the notice. We order 
the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Sincerely,
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Adam Shafran, Esq.
Allan Chiocca
Rockland Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
