===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
June 29, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 125 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY  
 
Vice-Chair John Erickson 
Fall River Redevelopment Authority 
C/o Fall River City Clerk (via e-mail: city_clerks@fallriverma.org) 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Vice-Chair Erickson: 
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on February 3, 2022, alleging that the 
Fall River Redevelopment Authority (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 3, 2022, and after an 
extension of time granted by this office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated 
January 27, 2022. The complaint alleges that the Board posted an insufficiently specific notice 
for its December 22 meeting.2   
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, 
and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed the notice, minutes, and 
video recording of the Board’s December 22 meeting, and corresponded with the Board’s 
attorney, John Coughlin, via email in January, March and April of 2022.3  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays” and that every 
notice include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A public body is 
required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). We generally consider a topic 
 
1 The Fall River Redevelopment Authority describes itself as a “Board” in its correspondence and on its website.  
2 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2021.  
3 A video recording of the Board’s December 2 meeting may be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch? 
v=HAgQxQDI-3Y&list=PLwZ O3BlFINU2vvEHjKjBJYrtcD5p32AP&index=38 . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand 
the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2015-35.4 A public body need 
not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements. See 
OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134. When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone. See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155. Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public 
aware of the discussion topics. See OML 2021-22; OML 2020-137; OML 2019-64.  
  
The complaint alleges that two items included on the notice for the Board’s December 22 
meeting were insufficiently specific. We disagree. The first item stated, “Approval of a proposal 
for an appraisal for 45 Anawan Street.” During this portion of the meeting the Board discussed a 
proposal to allow Board Chair Joseph Marshall to execute a contract for an appraisal of the 
property at 45 Anawan Street, including an appraisal of solar panel capability at the property. 
The Board discussed the proposal for nearly 27 minutes, during which Board members asked 
Executive Director Sarah Page numerous questions regarding the appraisal price and contractors. 
Executive Director Page informed the Board that the bid for the current appraisal from Appraisal 
Company of New England was $12,500, and each additional solar appraisal would cost 
approximately $2,000-$3,000. Board Member Medeiros said she would not vote to approve an 
appraisal at that price. Chair Marshall moved to table the proposed appraisal until Executive 
Director Page could acquire more information and seek a bid for an alternative appraisal.  
 
We find that the topic “Approval of a proposal for an appraisal for 45 Anawan Street” 
was sufficiently specific to make the public aware of the discussion at the Board’s December 22 
meeting. The complaint alleges that the notice should have included a “dollar amount” for the 
appraisals and “companies the [Board] could be doing business with.” Here, we acknowledge 
that additional details about the appraisal price and companies might have been useful to the 
public. Nonetheless, a meeting notice need not include each and every detail about a topic to 
satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s specificity requirement. See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132. 
After reviewing a video of the December 22 meeting, we find that the topic was sufficiently 
specific to reasonably advise the public of the topic where the Board discussed the appraisal bids 
as described by the meeting notice.  
 
The second notice item which the complaint alleges was insufficiently specific was the 
item “Approval of City Pier Construction Requisition #2.” During this portion of the meeting, 
Vice Chair Erickson moved to approve the second stage of a construction requisition pertaining 
to the City Pier Improvement Project and the Board unanimously approved the requisition with 
no deliberation on the topic. The Board’s attorney has explained that this action was only one 
step in a much larger contract which had been approved at one of the Board’s prior meetings. 
Therefore, we find that the Board’s discussion was sufficiently described by the item “Approval 
of City Pier Construction Requisition #2” because it reasonably informed the public of the 
discussion which was anticipated for the Board’s December 22 meeting. We therefore find that 
the Board’s meeting notice was sufficiently specific regarding both items.  
 
 
4 Previous Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan  
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
Assisted by: Emily Johnson, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Collin Dias (via e-mail:  
 Fall River Redevelopment Authority, c/o Counsel John Coughlin (via e-mail: 
jcoughlin@b-dlaw.com  
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
