===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY G ENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 2, 2015 
OML 2015-163 
Wayne Oliveira, Chair 
Fairhaven Beautification Committee 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair Oliveira: 
This office received a complaint from Karen Vilandry, dated August 14, alleging that the 
Fairhaven Beautification Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 14, and the 
Committee responded by letter dated August 13. In her complaint, Ms. Vilandry alleges that the 
Committee held a meeting without providing proper notice. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint; the Committee's response; and 
the request for further review filed with our office. Additionally, we interviewed Chair Oliveira 
by phone on September 3.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee was scheduled to hold a meeting on March 
18. At the time, the complainant was a member of the Committee. On March 15, she sent an e-
mail to Chair Oliveira requesting, in part, the agenda for the March 18 meeting. No notice or 
agenda announcing a March 18 meeting had been posted as of the date of this request. On 
March 18, Chair Oliveira e-mailed all Committee members, stating that the meeting that night 
was cancelled due to "unforeseen circumstances." 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on April 21. When a quorum of 
the Committee gathered on April 21, the members present decided not to hold a meeting. The 
Committee filed a "memo" with the Town Clerk on June 19 relating to this abandoned April 
meeting. The memo states the following: "No minutes were taken. Members in attendance did 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
not feel that there should be a formal meeting due to a complaint filed in the Attorney General's 
Office by member Karen Vilandry against the chair of this committee. Pending the outcome of 
the complaint and also the upcoming re-appointments by the selectmen, members will have to 
wait to see if there will be a Beautification Committee in the future." It appears that Chair 
Oliveira decided to draft this memo and file it with the Town Clerk without consulting the other 
Committee members. This memo mistakenly stated that it referred to a meeting on March 18. 
On June 19, the complainant obtained a copy of this memo from the Town Clerk. On 
July 16, the Committee filed a revised memo with the Town Clerk indicating that it concerned 
the meeting scheduled for April 21, not March 18. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
BOA, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. A public body must create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions. G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(a). These minutes must include 
the "the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." Id. 
Here, the complaint alleges that the Committee held a secret meeting on March 18, after 
announcing that it had been cancelled. However, no secret meeting took place. The March 18 
meeting was, in fact, cancelled. The Committee subsequently posted notice for an April 21 
meeting, and, while no meeting ultimately took place on that date. Chair Oliveira decided to file 
the memo at issue with the Town Clerk to explain why the meeting was cancelled. This memo 
mistakenly referenced the March 18 meeting date, however that inaccuracy was later corrected. 
This memo was never intended to constitute official minutes of a Committee meeting, and, 
indeed, no meeting took place on April 21. We therefore find that the Open Meeting Law was 
not violated. See G.L. c. BOA, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. 
As a final matter, we note that the Committee did not respond to this Open Meeting Law 
complaint within the time frame required by law. Unless an extension of time has been 
requested, a public body must, within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law 
complaint, send a copy of the complaint to the Attorney General's Office and notify the Attorney 
General's Office of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. BOA, § 2B(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5), (6). 
We remind the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints. 
3 We similarly reminded the Committee of its obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints in a 
determination letter dated September 17. See OML 2015-133. The response at issue here was sent before that letter 
was received by the Committee. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Karen Vilandry 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. e. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 