===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
July 23, 2013 
OML 2013 - 104 
David Gosselin 
Chair, Board of Appeals 
Department of Public Safety 
One Ashburton Place, Room 1301 
Boston, MA 02108 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Gosselin: 
Our office received a complaint filed by Paul Logan of the Steam Engineering 
Institute, dated January 19, 2013, alleging that the Department of Public Safety's Board of 
Appeals (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about December 15, 2012, and the 
Board responded on January 15, 2013.1 In his complaint, Mr. Logan alleges that on 
December 10, 2012, the Board convened a hearing and then deliberated about its decision 
outside of a properly posted meeting. 
We reviewed the December 15, 2012 complaint filed with the Board; the Board's 
January 15, 2013 response; and the January 19, 2013 complaint filed with our office. 
Finally, we spoke by telephone with Caroline Torrisi, Assistant General Counsel at the 
Department of Public Safety. 
Following our review, we find that because the Board was operating under the 
mistaken belief that it was not a public body, it failed to comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. Upon learning that it is, in fact, a public body, the Board stated its commitment to 
following the requirements of the Law in the future. 
FACTS 
Based upon our review of the material listed above, the facts are as follows. 
Pursuant to G.L. c. 146, § 66, "[a] person aggrieved by the action of a single examiner in 
refusing, suspending or revoking a license to act as engineer, fireman or operator of 
' On December 28, 2012, we granted the Board an extension of time to respond until January 18, 2013. 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
hoisting machinery may.. .appeal therefrom to the chief [of the Department of Safety's 
Division of Inspections], who shall appoint three inspectors of the division, or himself and 
two inspectors, to act together as a board of appeal." On December 10, 2012, the 
complainant attended a meeting of one such Board of Appeal at the request of the 
appellant, who had requested a review of his written examination for second class 
stationary fireman. This Board, consisting of three inspectors, was appointed by the 
Department's Chief of Inspections-Mechanical John Rogers solely for the purpose of 
reviewing appeals and making a decision (the "Board"). The Board permitted the 
complainant to attend the hearing pursuant to G.L. c. 146, § 58 ("In all.. .appeals the 
applicant may have one person present..but did not post notice of this meeting in 
accordance with the Open Meeting Law, or otherwise follow the Law's requirements. 
DISCUSSION 
A "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law is any "multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or 
within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or 
otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to 
any matter within the body's jurisdiction; provided, however, 'meeting' shall not include: 
. . . (d) a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission held for the sole purpose of 
making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it[.]" Id. 
Based upon the advice of counsel, the Board believed it was not subject to the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law because it was appointed and convened for the sole 
purpose of making a decision in an adjudicatory proceeding. Therefore, it believed it fell 
within the statutory exemption from the definition of "meeting" under the Open Meeting 
Law. However, after our review, we find that the Board is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law. The Board is created by statute, G.L. c. 146, § 66, serves a public 
purpose, and is empowered to act collectively, namely to conduct a hearing and render a 
decision. See OML 2013-56; OML 2012-30. We agree with the Board that its meetings 
held solely to deliberate and render a decision following an adjudicatory proceeding are 
exempt from the definition of "meeting." However, the hearing or adjudicatory proceeding 
* * T .2 itself is a "meeting" and therefore subject to the requirements of the Law. 
2 See also OML FAQ: Quasi-Judicial Public Bodies, available at the Attorney General's website: 
Q: Which quasi-judicial public bodies fall within exemption (d) to the definition of "meeting" as included in 
the OML? 
A: . . . State "quasi-judicial" public bodies are cautioned that they must still follow the requirements of the 
Open Meeting Law, including posting notice of meetings, retaining minutes, and opening their meetings to 
the public. The "quasi-judicial" exemption from the definition of "meeting" is limited to meetings held "for 
the sole purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding brought before it." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18 (emphasis added). The adjudicatory proceeding itself must still be open to the public. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
After this complaint was filed. Attorney Torrisi contacted our office to inquire 
about the quasi-judicial exception to the definition of "meeting." We referred her to our 
FAQ on quasi-judicial public bodies. Accordingly, in its response, the Board pledged to 
conduct any future adjudicatory proceedings in compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the Board's efforts to address the complainant's concerns. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that because the Board was operating under 
the mistaken belief that it was not a public body, it failed to comply with the Open Meeting 
Law. We order the Board, to the best of its ability, to create and approve meeting minutes 
from its December 10, 2012 meeting. This should occur within thirty (30) days of receipt 
of this letter. Additionally, we order immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a determination by our office of similar 
violations in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our 
office or the Board. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions or believe any 
facts in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Paul Logan 
Caroline Torrisi, Esq., Assistant General Counsel, Department of Public Safety 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 