===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
September 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 140 
 
 
Marjorie Macarelli 
Secretary, Peabody School Committee 
27 Lowell Street 
Peabody, MA 01960 
 
By email only: macarellim@peabody.k12.ma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Macarelli: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michael Donahue on April 2, 2023, alleging that 
the Peabody School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about February 8, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated March 17.2  The complaint alleges 
that the Committee failed to properly post notice of the meeting that was held on January 24.    
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in the 
way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review.  We also reviewed the notice and open session minutes of the Committee meeting held 
on January 24.   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On Friday, January 19 at 11:40 A.M., the Committee filed 
two notices with the Town Clerk for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, January 24.  The first 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a 
complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; 
send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General 
a copy of the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
notice listed an executive session for 6:30 P.M. and included two topics: “Negotiations update” 
and “Any other matters properly brought before said Committee if time permits.”  The second 
notice listed an open session meeting for 7:00 P.M. and listed two topics: “Regular School 
Committee Meeting” and “Any other matters properly brought before said Committee if time 
permits.”  
 
On January 19, the notices were posted to a bulletin board inside City Hall and to the 
calendar page on the City of Peabody’s website.  That same day, copies of the notices were also 
placed in a binder in the Police Department, where the public has access at all hours.  The City of 
Peabody has not adopted its municipal website as an alternative notice posting location, as it may 
choose to do pursuant to 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, a public body must post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal 
holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable 
format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  For meetings of a local 
public body, unless an alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be filed with 
the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or 
on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 
29.03(2).  As an alternative notice posting method, a municipality may choose to post notices to 
its website.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  
 
The City of Peabody has not adopted the municipal website as an alternative notice 
posting method; therefore, the official notice posting location for meetings of Peabody public 
bodies is Peabody City Hall located at 24 Lowell Street.  The complaint alleges that notice for 
the Committee’s January 24 meeting was not properly posted at this official designated location.  
We agree.  Although we acknowledge that the Committee posted notice 48 hours prior to the 
January 24 meeting, the notices were not posted “in a manner conspicuously visible to the public 
at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2).  The Committee must post meeting notices in or on Peabody City Hall 
in a manner visible to the public at all hours.  As such, posting notices to a bulletin board inside 
City Hall, which is not open at all hours, or with the Police Department, which is not located at 
City Hall, does not comply with the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2023-36.
3  Although public 
bodies are welcome to post notice of their meetings in additional locations, such as a Police 
Department, if they choose, a municipality has only one official notice posting location for 
purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law and all meeting notices must be posted in 
that location.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(c); OML 2022-228; OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.  
Therefore, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to properly post notice 
for its January 24 meeting.   
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
It appears that the Committee also posted the notices for the January 24 meeting on its 
municipal website, yet the City has not adopted the website as its official notice posting location.  
If the City of Peabody wishes to formally adopt its website as the official posting location for all 
meeting notices, it may do so in accordance with the procedures set forth in 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(c) and (2)(b).  
 
Although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note our concern with the 
sufficiency of the notices posted for the January 24 meeting.  Here, notice for the open session 
portion of the January 24 meeting included only two topics: “Regular School Committee 
Meeting” and “Any other matters properly brought before said Committee if time permits.”  
However, during this portion of the meeting, the Committee discussed numerous topics, 
including the Welch School Building Project, the high school library, the budget process for the 
next fiscal year and the demolition of the Kiley School, as well as approving two sets of meeting 
minutes and two warrants.  We remind the Committee that the Open Meeting Law requires that 
every notice must include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
discussed.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See 
OML 2015-35.  Moreover, where the chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating 
the meeting notice, we look to what that person anticipated would be discussed 48 hours prior 
the meeting.  See OML 2020-80; OML 2015-190.  When the chair of a public body delegates the 
responsibility for creating a meeting notice to another individual, any topics that individual 
anticipates will be discussed must be included on the meeting notice; however, such delegation 
does not relieve the public body of the responsibility for also including topics that the chair 
specifically anticipates 48 hours in advance will be discussed at a meeting.  See OML 2022-67; 
OML 2020-164. 
 
We also note our concern with the notice posted for the executive session held on January 
24 as the notice simply listed a topic for “Negotiations update.”  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  To convene in executive session, the public body must identify 
in its meeting notice the specific executive session purpose it intends to invoke to justify the 
executive session, and provide as must detail as possible to inform the public of the nature of the 
executive session discussion without compromising the purpose of the executive session.  See 
OML 2018-80; OML 2016-95.  Before entering executive session, the chair must also publicly 
announce the purpose for the executive session in the same level of detail.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 
567 (2009) (“[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct 
business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was 
proper or improper”). 
 
Moreover, when the only business to be discussed during an open session are the 
procedural requirements for entering executive session, we have written that public bodies must 
list “Open Session” on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold a brief open meeting that the public may 
attend prior to the executive session.  See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.  Without such notice, 
members of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for 
the executive session.  See OML 2013-195.  However, where additional open session topics are 
included in a meeting notice, we have not required that a public body list “Open Session” as a 
distinct topic.  See OML 2015-157; OML 2015-110; OML 2015-105.   
 
Finally, prior to convening in executive session, a public body must first convene in an 
open session, a majority of members of the body must vote to go into executive session, the vote 
of each member must be recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair must 
publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.  We remind the Committee of its 
obligations under the Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to properly post notice of its January 24 meeting.  We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Michael Donahue – By email only:  
 Peabody Town Clerk – By email only: Allyson.Danforth@peabody-ma.gov 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
