===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
April 4,2018 
OML 2018-45 
John Zychowicz, Jr., Chair 
Milton Sign Review Committee 
525 Canton Avenue 
Milton, MA 02186 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Zychowicz: 
This office received a complaint from Patricia Desmond, dated February 27, 2018, 
alleging that the Milton Sign Review Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on 
December 21, 2017, and the Committee responded by letter dated February 20, 2018.1 In her 
complaint, Ms. Desmond alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the complaint. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum. The Committee held a meeting on November 14, 2017, during 
which an applicant sought permission to install a sign on an office building. During the meeting, 
the Committee stated to the applicant that it would not support the sign application as submitted. 
The Committee did not take any formal vote on the application, however, and allowed the 
applicant to discuss the matter with his landlord. 
On November 15, 2017, the applicant's attorney sent an e-mail to the Milton Town 
Planner objecting to certain comments made during the November 14, 2017 meeting. In 
particular, the attorney stated that the issue of signage was covered in the applicant's lease and 
1 Within 14 business days of receipt of an Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must review the complaint's 
allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We take this opportunity to 
remind the Committee of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
argued that the Committee's determination was "inconsistent and arbitrary." The town planner, 
in turn, forwarded the e-mail to the Committee chair. The chair replied to the town planner, 
copying all other Committee members. The chair stated that, irrespective of what the applicant's 
lease may say, only the town can approve signage. He also stated that the Committee's decision 
was not arbitrary. On November 16, 2017, Committee members Ray Thill, Lawrence Johnson, 
and Douglas Scibeck responded to the group e-mail expressing their agreement with what the 
chair had said. The chair sent a final e-mail which stated, in part, "Thank you for your support. 
Depending on the next steps taken by the applicant, we will need to get together to review our 
decision and formally vote." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)(b), 21. The Open Meeting Law defines a "meeting" as "a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is 
generally a simple majority of the members of the public body. Id. 
Here, we find that the chair's November 15, 2017 e-mail, and the responses the following 
day, violated the Open Meeting Law. The e-mails concerned Committee business and they were 
sent among a quorum of the body. As the Committee correctly points out in its response, the 
communications largely summarized the discussion that took place during the November 14, 
2017 meeting. However, the Open Meeting Law prohibits any communication between or 
among a quorum of a public body, even if the public body has previously discussed the topic in 
public. Accordingly, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in 
the complaint. See OML 2015-33.2 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating via e-mail. We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We also order that the Committee release to the public, within 30 days 
following receipt of this letter, the November 15 and 16, 2017 e-mails discussed in this letter. 
This should occur at a properly noticed meeting. Pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4), the Committee 
shall notify our office in writing of compliance with this order. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patricia Desmond, Milton Times, Inc. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 