===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 30, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 64 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Peter C. Sumners, Esq. 
Murphy, Lamere & Murphy, P.C. 
50 Braintree Hill Office Park, Suite 202 
Braintree, MA 02184 
 
psumners@mlmlawfirm.com 
     
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Sumners:  
 
On February 24, 2025, this office received a complaint from Wendy Jones, alleging that 
the Whitman Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 24.  Board Chair Carl 
Kowalski responded by letter dated February 6.  The complainant alleges that notice of a meeting 
the Board held on January 7 (the “January 7 Meeting”) was not sufficiently specific because it 
did not include as a topic a statement which Administrator Mary Beth Carter read aloud during 
the meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We reviewed the notice, amended 
notice, and minutes of the January 7 Meeting, as well as two meeting packets provided to the 
Board prior to the meeting.  We viewed a portion of the recording of the January 7 Meeting.2  
Finally, we communicated with you via email and interviewed Chair Kowalski via Teams on 
May 27.  
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  On January 2, the Board posted notice of a meeting to take 
place on January 7.  Also on January 2, members of the Board received from Executive Assistant 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
2 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awQ1e-rac-I.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Laurie O’Brien materials to be discussed at the January 7 meeting, including a copy of the notice 
(the “Meeting Packet”).  On January 6, the Board posted an amended notice of the meeting.  
Members again received materials from Ms. O’Brien, which included the amended notice but 
otherwise appear identical to the Meeting Packet circulated on January 2.  Topics of discussion 
require Chair Kowalski’s assent before Ms. O’Brien may include them on the meeting notice.  
Both the original notice and the amended notice included a topic “Town Administrator’s Report” 
but neither notice referenced the Principal Assessor, the Board of Assessors or any statement to 
be read by the Town Administrator.  The Meeting Packet did not include the statement by the 
Town Administrator that is the subject of the instant complaint.   
 
On January 6 at 4:58 p.m., Town Administrator Carter sent Board Chair Kowalski a draft 
statement about Principal Assessor Jones and the Board of Assessors.  She later revised the 
statement and left a hard copy of the revised statement in Chair Kowalski’s mailbox at Town 
Hall.  In the months leading up to the January 7 meeting, Town Administrator Carter had 
expressed concerns to Chair Kowalski about Principal Assessor Jones and the Board of 
Assessors.  She had told Chair Kowalski that at some point she would want to raise these 
concerns to the Board but did not indicate when she would do so.  It was not until January 6 that 
Chair Kowalski learned that Town Administrator Carter would address the topic during the 
January 7 meeting. 
 
At the January 7 Meeting, Town Administrator Carter read aloud the statement provided 
to Chair Kowalski the day before, which was critical of Principal Assessor Jones and the Board 
of Assessors.
3  In the statement, Town Administrator Carter recommended that the Board seek a 
joint meeting with the Board of Assessors to address issues requiring immediate attention.  These 
issues included an allegedly erroneous FY25 real estate warrant and a delay in signing real estate 
liens.  Chair Kowalski followed along as Town Administrator Carter read her statement, reading 
to himself the copy that had been left in his Town Hall mailbox.   
 
After Town Administrator Carter finished reading her statement, Chair Kowalski stated 
that rather than discussing the Town Administrator’s concerns about the Board of Assessors, it 
would make sense to schedule a joint meeting with the Board of Assessors.
4  The Board then 
voted to hold a joint meeting with the Board of Assessors. 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  A public body may 
discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated by the 
 
3 The statement had been further revised between the time that a hard copy was deposited in Chair Kowalski’s 
mailbox and the time of the meeting. 
4 Chair Kowalski’s statement can be heard 38 minutes into the recording. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2024-75; OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87.  
 
The statement that is the subject of the complaint was sent to Chair Kowalski less than 48 
hours prior to the January 7 Meeting.  Therefore, the Chair could not have reasonably anticipated 
discussing Town Administrator Carter’s statement 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See 
OML 2024-190 (chair could not reasonably anticipate that member would speak in response to 
letter to editor published in newspaper afternoon of meeting); OML 2024-101 (chair could not 
reasonably anticipate discussion of ARPA funds that was subject of email received less than 48 
hours, excluding Saturday and Sunday, prior to meeting); OML 2023-234 (chair could not 
reasonably anticipate discussion of email received less than 48 hours prior to meeting); OML 
2022-165 (chair could not reasonably anticipate discussion of site plan received less than 48 
hours prior to meeting).5   
 
This is not the end of our inquiry, however.  Even though Chair Kowalski did not receive 
the statement until the day before the meeting, he was aware long before that that Town 
Administrator Carter wished to address the Board about the Board of Assessors (the subject of 
the statement) at some point.  When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to 
whether it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 
2024-190; OML 2023- 101; OML 2022-203; OML 2022-121.  The Open Meeting Law does not 
require that the chair of a public body guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course 
of deliberations.  See OML 2024-190; OML 2024-180; OML 2018-134.6  Chair Kowalski was 
aware that, at some point, the Town Administrator wished to address the Board about the Board 
of Assessors but did not learn until January 6 that she would do so at the January 7 Meeting.  
Because a discussion of Town Administrator Carter’s concerns about the Board of Assessors was 
not reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the January 7 Meeting, its omission does not render 
the meeting notice insufficiently specific.   
 
Finally, we note the Board’s argument that it was not required to list the Board of 
Assessors as a topic of discussion because the Board did not deliberate about the topic at the 
January 7 Meeting.  However, the Board did vote at the January 7 Meeting to schedule a joint 
meeting with the Board of Assessors.  Arguably, the vote itself could constitute deliberation.  
Because we find that notice of the January 7 meeting was sufficiently specific, however, we need 
not decide whether the vote which followed Town Administrator Carter’s statement constituted 
deliberation.7 
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 The complainant’s other arguments, that the statement should have been read in executive session and that she 
should have been invited to the January 7 Meeting to respond to the statement, are equally unavailing.  A public 
body is not required to convene an executive session to discuss any particular topic.   See OML 2017-12; OML 
2015-74; OML 2011-53.  Moreover, the Open Meeting Law does not require specific notice to an individual unless 
a public body plans to convene in executive session under Purpose 1.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2017-75; 
OML 2017-12; OML 2013-41. Also, to the extent that the complainant alleges a violation of town policies, that 
allegation falls outside of the Open Meeting Law and we therefore decline to review it.  
7 We acknowledge the Chair’s decision to postpone a substantive discussion of the issues raised by Town 
Administrator Carter, as they were not listed on the notice.  See, e.g., OML 2024-75 (noting that we encourage 
public bodies to postpone discussion of unanticipated topics not listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be 
included in a meeting notice). 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have 
any questions. 
Sincerely,  
  
  
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
  
cc: Wendy Jones (via email: ) 
Chair, Whitman Select Board (via email: CKowalski@whitman-ma.gov)  
 Whitman Town Administrator (via email: mcarter@whitman-ma.gov)  
 Whitman Town Clerk (via email: dawn.varley@whitman-ma.gov) 
 
  
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
