===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 19, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 115 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Matthew V. Sirigu, Esq. 
KP Law 
msirigu@k-plaw.com 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Sirigu: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on December 30, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Somerset Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about December 8, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated December 29. The 
complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s December 7 meeting included two insufficiently 
specific topics.   
 
Following our review, we find that one of the notice topics was insufficiently specific but 
that the other notice topic was sufficiently specific. In reaching this determination we reviewed 
the original Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, 
and meeting notices for and video recordings of the Board’s December 7, 2022, and January 18, 
2023, meetings.
2  
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Board’s December 7 meeting was 
insufficient where it included the topic “Consider approval of annual drainlayer license 
renewals” but did not identify the two renewals to be considered—MJD Excavating Inc. and 
Pond View Excavation Corp. We find, and the Board does not dispute, that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law by failing to identify the specific entities seeking drainlayer license 
renewals. The Board asserts, however, that it cured the violation because it planned to take 
“action [at a future meeting] to ratify, validate, and confirm the actions and votes taken at” the 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s December 7, 2022, meeting can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
dAyAFwIggA. A video of the Board’s January 18, 2023, meeting can be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hmyAUaCiqX4. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
December 7 meeting, and because the Board has begun to include the names of drainlayer 
applicants on its meeting notices. 
 
Violations of the Open Meeting Law may be cured by independent, deliberative action 
that is not merely a ceremonial acceptance and perfunctory ratification of action taken in 
violation of the Law. See Pearson v. Bd. of Selectmen of Longmeadow, 49 Mass. App. Ct. 119, 
125 (2000); OML 2020-7; OML 2016-49.3 Generally, that means conducting deliberations anew 
at a subsequent meeting that is accessible to the public and for which proper notice is provided. 
The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 18, 2023. The notice for the meeting 
included the topic “Ratify, validate, and confirm discussion and votes at Dec. 7 open session 
meeting concerning annual drain layer license renewals re: 1. MJD Excavating Inc. of 231 Plain 
Street, Rehoboth, MA 2. Pond View Excavation Corp. of 50 French Street, Rehoboth, MA.” 
During the January 18 meeting, the Board voted to ratify its earlier approval of the two 
drainlayer licenses. Although we acknowledge that the Board’s December 7 consideration of the 
license renewals was very brief, we find that the Board did not cure the December 7 violation 
where, on January 18, 2023, it simply voted to ratify its earlier votes. Nonetheless, because the 
notice for the January 18, 2023, meeting sufficiently identified the applicants for drainlayer 
license renewals, we decline to order further remedial action.  
 
 Finally, the complaint alleges that the notice topic “Consider abatement for 353 
Highview Avenue, Somerset” was insufficient where it did not include the amount of the 
abatement or the name of the applicant. Public bodies must, except when meeting in executive 
session to discuss tax abatements, identify on their meeting notices the abatements to be 
considered at a meeting. See OML 2016-167 (finding that a meeting notice was insufficiently 
specific where it did not include the names of trash fee abatement applicants); OML 2020-164 
(finding notice insufficient where it listed “abatements” only and did not identify each 
abatement). Here, where the Board included the property that was the subject of the abatement 
application, we find that this sufficiently identified the abatement to be discussed. See 940 CMR 
29.03(1)(b) (A public body is required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”); see also OML 2022-
98 (“[A] meeting notice need not include each and every detail about a topic to satisfy the Open 
Meeting Law’s specificity requirement.”). We note that it appears the Board now includes the 
name of abatement applicants on its notices, in addition to identifying the property. We 
commend the Board for including this additional detail.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a meeting notice with one insufficiently specific topic. We order the Board’s immediate 
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law.  
 
 
 
 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’ s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Steve Cadorette, Chair, Somerset Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners (via e-mail: 
scadorette@town.somerset.ma.us) 
Patrick Higgins (via email: )  
Somerset Town Clerk (via e-mail: dberge@town.somerset.ma.us) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
