===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
June 3, 2019 
OML 2019-62
Sean M. Lynn-Jones
Chair, Brookline Advisory Committee
Town Hall
333 Washington Street 
Brookline, MA 02445
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Mr. Lynn-Jones:
This office received a complaint from Brook Ames, dated May 23, alleging that the 
Brookline Advisory Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 12, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated April 26. The complaint alleges that the 
Committee failed to properly respond to a request for executive session minutes.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to a request for executive session minutes. In reaching this determination, we reviewed 
the original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with 
our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and open session minutes of 
Committee meetings held on March 27, March 29, April 3, April 5, April 10, and April 12.
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On March 21, Mariela Ames sent an e-mail to Committee 
Chair Sean Lynn-Jones requesting executive session minutes in which the Committee had 
approved “the release of money for the settlement of harassment, discrimination and retaliation 
claims for the last 10 years.”
The Committee held meetings on March 27, March 29, April 3, April 5, April 10, and 
April 12 but did not review any executive session minutes during those meetings. On April 12,
o
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.

===PAGE 2===
having received no response from the Committee, the complainant filed an Open Meeting Law 
complaint regarding the Committee’s failure to respond to the request for executive session 
minutes.
During an April 24 meeting, the Committee convened in executive session and reviewed 
four sets of executive session minutes that it believed were responsive to Ms. Ames’ request. 
Specifically, the Committee reviewed executive session minutes of meetings held on January 11, 
2011; November 29, 2011; August 21, 2012; and October 24, 2017. The Committee voted not to 
release any of these minutes. The Committee also discussed the complaint.
By letter dated April 26, the Committee responded to both the request and the complaint 
stating that the original purposes for the executive session meetings were still ongoing and 
therefore the requested minutes would not be released.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Executive session 
minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). When the 
purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or exhibits 
used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an exemption to the 
public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from disclosure. See id. Public 
bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions at reasonable intervals to 
determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to announce that 
determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1); see OML 2019- 
35; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.
Upon request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any 
portion thereof, the body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and 
release any such minutes where publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the body has not performed a review, it must 
do so and then release any non-exempt minutes, or portions thereof, not later than the body’s 
next meeting or in 30 days, whichever first occurs. See id.; OML 2019-3; OML 2013-180.2
Here, Ms. Ames requested executive session minutes on March 21. However, she 
received no response to her request until April 26 when the Committee responded to this 
complaint. The Committee’s next meeting following the March 21 request was on March 27 yet 
it did not conduct a review of executive session minutes at that meeting, nor did it conduct a 
review of any executive session minutes during its five subsequent meetings on March 29, April 
3, April 5, April 10, or April 12. We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
where it did not review the minutes at the next available meeting but instead waited until April 
24. See OML 2016-135.
2
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
2

===PAGE 3===
Moreover, the Committee was obligated to respond to Ms. Ames within 10 days of her 
March 21 request. The Committee did not respond until April 26 when it responded to this 
complaint. The Committee should have informed Ms. Ames within 10 days of her request that it 
was conducting a review of the executive session minutes. See OML 2016-135; OML 2013-99. 
Because the Committee did not do so, it violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to a request for executive session minutes.
CONCLUSION
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to properly 
respond to a request for executive session minutes. Because the Committee has since conducted 
a review of the requested executive session minutes and responded to the requester, we order no 
further remedial action. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance with the 
Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Brooks A. Ames
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
3
