===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 108 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Maura E. O’Keefe, Esq. 
Office of Town Counsel  
Town of Falmouth 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02450 
 
maura.okeefe@falmouthma.gov 
    
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney O’Keefe:  
 
On March 19, 2024, this office received a complaint from Adam Smith, alleging that the 
Falmouth Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 13.
1  You responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated March 4.  The complainant alleges that the Board, specifically Edwin 
Zylinski, Nancy Taylor and Robert Mascali, violated the Open Meeting Law when they attended 
a meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals (the “ZBA”) in an effort to influence a ZBA member 
on a matter pending before it. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint, the response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We also viewed a recording of the 
January 18 meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals.   
 
FACTS 
  
We find the facts as follows.  The B oard consists of five members.  On January 18, the 
Board commenced a posted meeting at or about 5:30 p.m.  The ZBA also held a scheduled 
meeting that evening, convening at or about 6:00 p.m.  Upon the conclusion of the Board 
meeting, three members, Edwin Zylinski, Nancy Taylor and Robert Mascali, went to attend the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
ZBA meeting, being held in the same building.  The ZBA meeting was already in progress when 
the three Board members arrived.2  As a result, there was little seating.   
 
Before the ZBA at its January 18 meeting was an application for a special permit to 
redevelop property at 545 Main St.  Edwin Zylinski spoke to this project during public 
comment.3  He introduced himself as a current member of the Board but stated that he was not 
speaking in his capacity as a Board member.  He noted his prior tenure on the ZBA and 
suggested as a “citizen of East Falmouth” that “both sides come to some kind of agreement to 
help this move forward.” 
 
DISCUSSION 
  
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when convened in executive session, “all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is 
defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the 
body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly 
as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; . . . .”  Id.  
 
The complainant alleges that three Board members violated the Open Meeting Law when 
they “apparently met to influence the Zoning Board of Appeals.”  In support of his contention, he 
references a photograph, which shows the three Board members near the doorway of the room 
where the ZBA met on January 18.  Three members constitute a quorum of the five-member 
Board. 
 
The complainant appears to allege that the presence of the three Board members at the 
ZBA meeting, with one Board member speaking during public comment, was in violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  Such is not the case.  The quorum of a public body may attend the meeting 
of another public body “so long as the visiting members communicate only by open participation 
in the meeting on those matters under discussion by the host body and do not deliberate.”  G.L. c. 
30A, §18(c).  See also OML 2024-17 (“A quorum of a public body may attend the meeting of 
another public body without posting notice so long as the visiting public body members listen 
and participate as members of the audience and do not deliberate.”); OML 2020-18; OML 2012-
6.4  Mr. Zylinski addressed the ZBA as a member of the public without addressing his fellow 
Board members.  There was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
To the extent that the complainant alleges that the three Board members deliberated at the 
ZBA meeting, we find no support for such an allegation.  The complainant has presented a 
 
2 Because the Board met in executive session, and because minutes of the January 18 open session are not posted 
online, there is no documentation of the time that the Board meeting ended. 
3 The recording of the ZBA meeting can be accessed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AYTl23-7lM0.  Mr. 
Zylinski’s comments begin at approximately 1:35:15. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
photograph showing three members of the Board standing near the doorway of the room where 
the ZBA meeting was being held.  The language of the complaint itself is tentative, stating that 
the members “apparently met” to influence the ZBA.  That photograph alone does not provide 
support for an allegation that the three Board members deliberated.   
 
The Board maintains that the three Board members stood near the door way to avoid 
disturbing the ZBA meeting in progress.  The Board denies that the three members spoke to each 
other at the ZBA meeting.  Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s 
account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 2016-141; see also LaPointe v. 
License Board of Worcester, 389 Mass. 454 (1983) (“There is every presumption in favor of the 
honesty and sufficiency of the motives actuating public officers in actions ostensibly taken for 
the general welfare.”)  We have explained on many occasions that mere speculation or 
conjecture regarding deliberation outside of a posted meeting, without factual support, is 
insufficient to support a complaint’s allegations.  See, e.g., OML 2024-91; OML 2024-14; OML 
2023-242; OML 2014-114; OML 2012-59; see also G.L. c. 30A, § 24(a) (“Whenever the 
attorney general has reasonable cause to believe that a person, including any public body . . . has 
violated the open meeting law, the attorney general may conduct an investigation to ascertain 
whether in fact such person has violated the open meeting law.”)  As there is no evidence that 
members of the Board deliberated outside of a meeting, we find no violation.      
 
 Although not part  of the complaint filed with the Board, two additional allegations, made 
in the complainant’s request for review, merit brief comment.  First, the complainant alleges that 
it was improper for the Board to review his Open Meeting Law complaint in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 1.  A public body may enter executive—or closed—session for any of ten 
purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a).  On e permissible reason for executive session is Purpose 1, “[t]o 
discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or 
charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(1).  It is well established that public  bodies may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 
to review Open Meeting Law complaints against the body.  See OML 2024-71; OML 2023-109; 
OML 2013-82.  Second, the complainant asks that we review minutes of the Board’s executive 
sessions of the last 12 months “to determine compliance” with the Open Meeting Law.   We 
decline to do so.  Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office 
will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2024-
2; OML 2021-133. 
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not v iolate the Open Meeting 
Law in the ways alleged.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions. 
 
Sincerely,  
  
 
Matt
hew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
cc: Adam Smith (via email: )  
 Falmouth Select Board (via email: nancy.taylor@falmouthma.gov) 
  Falmouth Town Clerk (via email: Michael.palmer@falmouthma.gov) 
  
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order.  
  
 
