===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 15, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 144 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Jenny Potee 
Chair, New Salem Board of Health 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Potee: 
This office received three complaints from Karyn Briand on March 11, 2021, alleging 
that the New Salem Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the Board on December 15, 28, and 30.1 The 
Board responded by letter dated February 11, 2021.2 In her complaints, Ms. Briand, who is a 
member of the Board, alleges that the Board 1) held executive sessions on December 2 and 
December 15 to discuss complaints against Ms. Briand without providing 48 hours’ notice to Ms. 
Briand, as the subject of the executive sessions, 2) scheduled a December 28 executive session 
without accommodating Ms. Briand’s availability, and 3) created draft meeting minutes for the 
December 2 executive session which are inaccurate.3 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to notify Ms. Briand in writing 48 hours prior to the December 2 executive session. We find no 
violation with respect to the other allegations. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 We remind the Board of its obligation to meet to review and respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 
business days of receipt, or within the time allotted pursuant to an extension granted by our office. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 The complaints also allege that 1) the Board’s Chair requested to be on the agenda for a Select Board meeting on 
December 28 and later asked that the item be removed, 2) the other Board members “incited fear and panic;” “acted 
with a lack of compassion, understating and support,” and 3) the other Board members acted outside the scope of 
their authority in contacting Town Counsel without full Board approval. Finally, the complaints allege that a cease-
and-desist order issued by the Board is inaccurate and illegal. We note that, even if true, these allegations would not 
constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review them. See OML Declination 1-
25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
original complaints, the Board’s response to the complaints, and the complainant’s request for 
further review of the three complaints. We also reviewed copies of the Board’s draft December 2 
executive session minutes, Ms. Briand’s redline version of the draft December 2 executive 
session minutes, and the Board’s approved December 15 executive session minutes. Finally, we 
reviewed draft executive session minutes of the Board’s December 15, 2020, and January 4, 
2021, executive sessions.   
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 2, Board Chair Potee received an anonymous 
complaint regarding actions taken by Ms. Briand earlier in the day on December 2. As a result of 
this anonymous complaint, the Chair called an emergency Board meeting for 6:45 p.m. on 
December 2. At 6:45 p.m., the Board convened in executive session with only the three Board 
members, including Ms. Briand, present.4 As the executive session minutes for this meeting have 
not been released to the public, we do not describe their contents in detail. However, the 
discussion pertained to the anonymous complaint against Ms. Briand. The executive session, and 
the meeting, were adjourned at 7:00 p.m.   
On December 3 and 4, the Board’s Chair received two further complaints about Ms. 
Briand’s actions on December 2. On December 5, the Board issued a cease-and-desist order to 
Ms. Briand.  
The Board scheduled another executive session for December 15 to continue discussing 
the complaints against Ms. Briand. The Board sent Ms. Briand written notice of the planned 
executive session via USPS, but the notice did not arrive until December 14. At 5:27 p.m. on 
December 15, the Board convened the executive session to discuss the complaints against Ms. 
Briand. All three Board members were present, as well as two town staff members. After Ms. 
Briand asserted that the written notice had not arrived 48 hours in advance of the executive 
session, the Board cancelled the discussion of the complaints against Ms. Briand and agreed to 
reschedule the executive session, without setting a new date. The Board then adjourned the five-
minute executive session.  
The Board attempted to reschedule the executive session to a later date, initially 
scheduled for December 28. However, when Ms. Briand filed her second Open Meeting Law 
complaint on December 28 stating that she was not available until January 4 at the earliest, the 
Board cancelled the December 28 executive session. The Board held the executive session on 
January 4; all three Board members and a staff member were present. As the executive session 
minutes for this meeting have not been released to the public, we do not describe their contents 
in detail. However, the discussion pertained to the anonymous complaints against Ms. Briand. 
The executive session lasted eight minutes, from 7:00 p.m. to 7:08 p.m.   
 
4 The Board’s meeting minutes of the December 2 executive session do no indicate that the Board first convened in 
open session to perform the procedural steps to enter executive session. We take this opportunity to remind the 
Board that before entering into executive session, the Board must convene in an open session that the public may 
attend; the Chair must state the reasons for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called; the Chair must state whether the Board will 
reconvene in open session; and the Board must take a roll call vote to enter executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b); OML 2014-142; OML 2011-39. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board failed to notify Ms. Briand in writing 48 hour in advance of the December 2 
meeting that an executive session would be held to discuss complaints against her. 
However, we find no violation with respect to the December 15 executive session.  
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A public body may convene in executive, or closed, session for any of ten 
purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. One permissible reason to convene in executive 
session is “to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than 
professional competence, of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or 
complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) (“Purpose 1”). When a public body plans to convene in executive session 
pursuant to Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of the discussion must be notified in 
writing 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, and must be afforded the following 
rights: to be present during executive session deliberations involving her, to have counsel present 
to advise her, to speak on her own behalf, and to cause an independent record of the executive 
session to be created at her own expense. Id. Additionally, if the individual requests that the 
session be open, the public body must hold the discussion in open session. Id.  
 Ms. Briand alleges that the Board met in an emergency executive session on December 2 
without providing her, as the subject of the discussion, with written notice 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting, as required by the Open Meeting Law when a public body meets in executive 
session under Purpose 1.5 In the case of an emergency, the Open Meeting Law permits a public 
body to hold a meeting with less than 48 hours’ notice to the public; instead, notice must be 
posted “as soon as reasonably possible prior to such a meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(a); see also 
G.L. c. 30A, §20(b).  Neither the Open Meeting Law nor the Attorney General’s regulations 
contain any similar exception allowing a public body to give less than 48 hours’ written notice to 
the individual who will be the subject of its discussions if it plans to enter executive session 
under Purpose 1. See G.L. c. 30A, §21(a)(1). The subject of the discussion may, however, waive 
the 48-hour notification requirement in writing. See 2013-14; OML 2011-40 (public body would 
have needed a waiver from the subject of executive session discussion if the public body had 
voted to enter executive session under Purpose 1 without providing the subject with 48 hours 
written notice).  
 Here, Ms. Briand was the subject of the Board’s December 2 executive session. She was 
not notified in writing 48 hours in advance of the executive session, as the meeting was called by 
the chair on the same day the meeting took place. Nor did Ms. Briand waive her right to receive 
written notice 48 hours in advance. We therefore find that the Board failed notify Ms. Briand in 
writing 48 hours in advance of the December 2 executive session, violating the Open Meeting 
Law.  
 
5 The Open Meeting Law defines an “emergency” as “a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of 
circumstances demanding immediate action.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Ms. Briand does not dispute that the Board’s 
meeting constituted an emergency, as defined by the Open Meeting Law, and we make no finding in this regard.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 On the other hand, we find no violation with respect to the December 15 executive 
session, because the Board postponed any discussion of the complaint against Ms. Briand once 
Ms. Briand informed the Board that she was not notified in writing 48 hours in advance of the 
executive session. See OML 2013-85 (finding no violation where a public body did not enter 
executive session to discuss a topic which the notice listed as an executive session, upon learning 
that the topic was not appropriate for executive session). 
2. We find no violation with respect to the Board’s scheduling of the December 28 
executive session.  
 When a public body plans to convene in executive session pursuant to Purpose 1, the 
individual who is the subject of the discussion must be notified in writing 48 hours prior to the 
proposed executive session, and must be afforded the following rights: to be present during 
executive session deliberations involving her, to have counsel present to advise her, to speak on 
her own behalf, and to cause an independent record of the executive session to be created at her 
own expense. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1).  
 In her December 28 complaint, Ms. Briand alleged that the Board scheduled an executive 
session on December 28 to discuss complaints against her, although she had previously informed 
the Board that she was not available until January 4, 2021, at the earliest. Our office strongly 
encourages public bodies to accommodate individuals who are subject to a Purpose 1 executive 
session to ensure that they may be present during the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
The Board’s Chair informs us that the December 28 executive session was postponed until 
January 4, 2021, after Ms. Briand filed her complaint, in order to accommodate Ms. Briand’s 
schedule. As the Board did not meet on December 28, we find no violation with respect to this 
allegation. See OML 2021-84; OML 2020-53. 
3. We do not find that the Board approved inaccurate minutes of its December 2 executive 
session meeting, as the minutes are still in draft form. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough 
detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106; OML 2020-149 
(finding minutes that noted a discussion was held, or a topic was addressed, without specifying 
what was said on each topic did not comply with the requirements of the Law); OML 2021-10. 
While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not 
required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 
2011-44; OML 2021-33. 
 Ms. Briand alleges that the minutes of the Board’s December 2 executive session meeting 
are inaccurate. However, since the minutes have not been approved by the Board, and therefore 
are still in draft form and may be amended to comply with the Open Meeting Law’s 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
requirements before approval, we do not find that the Board approved insufficiently detailed 
minutes. See OML 2020-1; OML 2012-111 (finding no violation where draft minutes were 
amended to meet Open Meeting Law standards before being approved).  
 Although not raised in the complaint, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that 
meeting minutes must be reviewed and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
“Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” See 940 CMR 
29.11; OML 2018-48. The Board should promptly approve final meeting minutes for all 
meetings, including executive session, which remain outstanding. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to notify Ms. Briand in writing 48 hours in advance of the December 2 executive session. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution 
the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As Ms. Briand did in fact attend 
and participate in the December 2, December 15 and January 4 executive sessions, we order no 
further relief.   
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Karyn Briand (via e-mail:  
 New Salem Board of Health (via e-mail:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 