===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 12, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 142 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Howard L. Greenspan, Esq. 
Howard L. Greenspan, Attorney at Law 
hgreenspan@greenspanlawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Greenspan: 
 
This office received a complaint from Bruce Friedman on behalf of 
OpenCommonwealth.org on April 10, 2025,
1 alleging that the Malden School Committee (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Committee on or about March 24, and, after an extension of time granted 
by this office, you responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated April 9. The complaint 
alleges that the Committee failed to respond to a March 12 request made under the Open 
Meeting Law for minutes of executive session meetings held on November 13, 2023; December 
4, 2023; and January 18, 2024.
2 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a).3 The Committee acknowledges, and we find, that the Committee failed to 
respond to the Complainant’s March 12 request for executive session meeting minutes within 10 
days as required under the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). After receiving the 
present complaint, the Committee responded to the original March 12 request for meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The request also included requests for draft versions of the executive session minutes as well as records other than 
meeting minutes. We note that requests for records other than meeting minutes fall under the Public Records Law, 
not the Open Meeting Law, and that the Open Meeting Law does not specifically require that a public body provide 
draft versions of executive session minutes. See OML 2024-204; OML 2025-70. 
3 “Informal Action. The Attorney General may resolve the investigation with a letter or other appropriate form of 
written communication that explains the violation and clarifies the subject’ s obligations under M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 
through 25, providing the subject with a reasonable period of time to comply with any outstanding obligations.”  940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a). 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
minutes by letter dated April 2.4 The April 2 response explained that the requested minutes were 
available on the Committee’s website, but that they were redacted in accordance with a 
determination from our office as well as an order from the Supervisor of Records.5  
 
Next, we must determine whether the violation was intentional, as the Complainant 
urges
. An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body or a member thereof, in 
knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An intentional violation may 
be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the Law’s requirements or has 
previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting Law. Id.  
 
In its response to the complaint, the Committee explained that
  its failure to respond to the 
March 12 request within 10 days was not intentional but rather was an oversight due to the fact 
that the requested minutes were “the subject of repeated requests under the [Open Meeting Law] 
and Public Records Law over the course of the previous year.” Following this explanation and 
the Committee’s remedial action, the Complainant filed his complaint with our office, 
specifically requesting that “this admitted violation be found to be intentional and that the body 
be both fined and censured.” (emphasis in original). In support of this request, the Complainant 
notes that our office has found the Committee in violation of the Open Meeting Law for failure 
to respond to requests for meeting minutes on three occasions. See OML 2024-204; OML 2024-
119; OML 2023-95.6 
 
Although we have previously warned the Committee about its obligation to respond to 
requests for minutes within 10 days, we also understand that the Committee has been the 
recipient of numerous and sometimes overlapping requests for meeting minutes. For example, in 
OML 2024-204, which the Complainant cites as support for finding an intentional violation, we 
found that the Committee failed to timely respond to requests for meeting minutes. However, 
OML 2024-204 resolved 17 complaints filed by the complainant here and related to nine requests 
for meeting minutes, of which two were identical, made in the span of less than one month. 
Considering this history, the Committee’s assertion that its failure to timely respond was an 
oversight, and the lack of evidence to the contrary, we decline to find an intentional violation in 
the present instance. We are convinced that after multiple warnings by this office, the Committee 
fully understands its obligation to respond to requests for meeting minutes within 10 calendar 
days. 
 
Finally, in instances where a public body acknowledges a violation and all appropriate 
corr
ective action has been taken, we urge complainants not to consume resources by filing 
complaints where the transparency purpose of any such complaint has already been addressed 
and where the sole purpose for filing the complaint with our office is to request that we find an 
intentional violation. See OML 2012-46; OML 2017-191; OML 2023-113; OML 2024-20. 
 
4 The April 2 response also included a response to a separate request for meeting minutes that is the subject of a 
separate Open Meeting Law complaint resolved by OML 2025-143. 
5 As explained in OML 2025-143, the Committee inadvertently failed to post online an updated version of the 
December 4, 2023, executive session minutes that removed redactions it had been ordered to remove by the 
Supervisor of Records. This has since been rectified.  
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Pursuing such complaints consumes scarce state and local resources without advancing the Open 
Meeting Law’s goal of improved governmental transparency. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to respond to the Complainant’s March 12 request for executive session meeting 
minutes within 10 calendar days. We order the Committee’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Because the Committee has since responded to the 
request, we do not order further remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mayor Gary Christenson, Chair, Malden School Committee  
(via email: mayor@cityofmalden.org)  
Malden School Committee c/o Ariana Langston, Clerk of the Committee  
(via email: alangston@maldenps.org)  
Carol Ann Desiderio, City Clerk (via email: cdesiderio@cityofmalden.org)  
Bruce Friedman, OpenCommonwealth.org (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
