===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
September 23, 2019 
OML 2019-121
Aldo A. Cipriano, Esq.
277 Main Street 
Victoria Building 
Second Level, Atrium Suite 
Marlborough, MA 01752
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Attorney Cipriano:
This office received a complaint from David Parry on June 20 alleging that the 
Southborough Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 14, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 7.2 The complaint alleges that the Board discussed a 
topic, a town meeting warrant article, that was not included on the notices for the Board’s 
February 6 and February 22 meetings, and that the minutes of the February 22 meeting were 
insufficiently detailed.
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of Board meetings held on February 6 and February 22, as well as video 
recordings of the February 6 and February 22 meetings.3
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. On February 1 at 1:11 P.M., the Board posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on February 6 at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, one of which was
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).
3 The video recording of the February 6 meeting is available at https://www, youtube.com/watch?v=pARVOiDwdns; 
the video recording of the February 22 meeting is available at https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=HBRLCpLO ag.

===PAGE 2===
“Other Matters Properly Before the Board.” Two subtopics were listed under this heading - 
“Closing of warrant for April 9, 2018 Annual Town Meeting” and “Continued discussion of 
process for renaming of St. Mark’s Golf Course.”
The February 6 meeting was held as planned. The Board met with the Executive Director 
of the Metropolitan Area Planning Council who advised the Board of services that the Council 
could provide to the Town; heard from the Council on Aging with respect to the growth of the 
Senior Center; received an update from the Golf Course Conservation Restriction Committee 
about golf course renovation funding; spoke with the Finance Director about the budget for fiscal 
year 2019; and received updates from the Town Administrator. The Board then approved 
meeting minutes; accepted a monetary donation; appointed individuals to the Municipal 
Technology Committee, Scholarship Committee, and Emergency Planning Committee; and 
appointed an Animal Control Officer. Finally, the Town Administrator reviewed the annual 
town warrant and requested that the Board close the warrant for the April Town Meeting. Chair 
Daniel Kolenda proposed that the Board sponsor an article (Article 36) to change the Town 
Administrator position to a Town Manager position. The Board expressed the need to know 
more about the differences between the positions and proposed a placeholder for the article with 
continued discussion at the next meeting.
On February 20 at 11:32 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
February 22 at 6:30 P.M. The notice listed seven topics, one of which was “Other Matters 
Properly Before the Board.” Two subtopics were listed under this heading - “Re-naming of the 
St. Mark’s Golf Course” and “Update on Annual Town Meeting warrant; scheduling sponsors 
for presentation.”
The February 22 meeting was held as planned. The Board voted to accept the layout of a 
street; received updates from the Public Safety Building Committee; spoke with the Finance 
Director about the budget; approved meeting minutes; approved a one year contract extension for 
the Fire Chief; appointed an individual to the Municipal Technology Committee; accepted a 
monetary donation; and discussed the re-naming of St. Mark’s Golf Club. The Board also 
reviewed all 36 warrant articles included on the annual town warrant. Some articles were 
approved, some were removed, and some, including Article 36, were held pending more 
information. The minutes record each article only by number and do not otherwise include a 
summary of each article, simply referencing whether the Board approved, removed or held the 
article.
DISCUSSION
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Notices must include 
the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably 
anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” IdL The list of topics shall have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member
2

===PAGE 3===
of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2015-35.4
The complaint alleges that the notices for both the February 6 and February 22 meetings 
were insufficiently detailed where they did not include specific reference to warrant Article 36. 
We agree that Article 36 was not specifically listed on either the February 6 or February 22 
meeting notices. However, with respect to the February 6 notice, we do not find a violation of 
the Open Meeting Law because a public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice 
if the topic was not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting. See OML 2017- 
2; OML 2013-87. The Board states that the chair did not anticipate discussing Article 36, the 
proposal to change the Town Administrator position to a Town Manager position, but that the 
article simply came up during the discussion of the annual town warrant. Although we express 
concern with the Board’s assertion that the chair did not anticipate a discussion of Article 36, 
since it was a warrant article that he personally proposed at the February 6 meeting, we also do 
not find evidence demonstrating that the chair prepared for or specifically anticipated raising that 
topic. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body’s account of the 
facts. See OML 2015-8; OML 2014-70. While a public body may consider a topic at a meeting 
that was not listed in the notice if it was not reasonably anticipated at least 48 hours before the 
meeting, we strongly encourage public bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not 
listed in the meeting notice until the topic may be included in a meeting notice, unless the 
circumstances demand immediate action by the public body. See OML 2011-23; OML 2013- 
197.
With respect to the February 22 notice, we also do not find a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law. Where a public body anticipates discussing specific Town Meeting warrant 
articles, it must specifically list them in its meeting notice. See OML 2011-7. However, where a 
public body is reviewing all articles for a Town Meeting warrant, it is not required to list all of 
the warrant articles on its meeting notice. See OML 2012-83. During the February 22 meeting, 
the Board discussed all the articles included on the Annual Town Meeting warrant, including 
Article 36. As such, the notice for the Board’s February 22 meeting was sufficiently specific 
because it informed the public that the Board would be generally reviewing the warrant for the 
upcoming Annual Town Meeting. See OML 2013-8.
The complaint also alleges that the February 22 meeting minutes are not accurate because 
they do not contain specific detail about the Board’s discussion of Article 36. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2016-105; OML 2012-106. Here, the approved
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
meeting minutes identify each article discussed by the Board only by its number and do not 
specifically include a summary of the articles themselves. The minutes simply reflect whether 
the Board approved, removed or held a specific article. After reviewing the video recording of 
the Board’s February 22 meeting, we find that the minutes provide an accurate and sufficiently 
detailed summary of the discussions that occurred. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55 (while 
minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented). Accordingly, we find 
that the Committee’s minutes complied with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting. We now consider the complaint 
addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: David Parry
Southborough Board of Selectmen
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
4
