===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 27, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 5 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Andrew Daniel  
Chair, Marion Planning Board 
  
 
 
 RE: Open Me
 eting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Daniel: 
 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Marum, a member of the Marion Planning 
Board (the “Board”), on October 29, 2024,
1 alleging that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 9, 
and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated October 28. We understand the 
complaint to allege that the Board’s Chair, Andrew Daniel,
2 violated the Open Meeting Law by 
revising language in the minutes of the Board’s August 5 meeting without the authority to do so 
and in such a way as to render the minutes insufficient.
3  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
creating insufficient meeting minutes. Additionally, we decline to review whether the Chair had 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
3 In the complaint and additional communications with our office the Complainant raises concerns regarding 
professionalism, sexual harassment, sexism, misogyny, and gender discrimination, as well as the Board’s review of 
the present Open Meeting Law complaint. First, we do not review allegations that were not raised in an Open 
Meeting Law complaint filed with the public body. See OML 2024-21, n.3; OML 2021-186, n. 1 (“We generally 
decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint to the Board because the Board 
has not had an opportunity to respond to it.”). Second, allegations regarding harassment, unprofessionalism, and 
incivility do not allege violations of the Open Meeting Law; as such, we decline to review these allegations. See 
OML 2018-91 (explaining that gender-based harassment complaints should be filed with the Massachusetts 
Commission Against Discrimination); OML 2019-166 (explaining that “[a]n allegation of unprofessional conduct or 
incivility towards a member of the Commission or the public does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting 
Law”). Although the Division does not review allegations of unprofessionalism and incivility, our office encourages 
professionalism and civility during meetings of public bodies.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
authority to revise the meeting minutes. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open 
Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and other 
communications from the Complainant.  
 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes 
must include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id.
4 When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64.5 By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a 
summary of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not 
need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.  
 
We understand the Complainant’s primary concern to be that the Chair, without authority 
to do so, revised a portion of the August 5 meeting minutes that the Complainant, as clerk for the 
Board, had originally drafted. The complaint alleges that the Complainant’s “words were 
stripped away from the MS4 Stormwater Management Bylaw section of the August 5, 2024, 
meeting minutes, and Chair Daniel’s words were inserted,” and further asserts that “[t]he 
Chairperson does not have the authority to strip away a clerk’s record of meeting minutes.” The 
Open Meeting Law does not specify which particular individual is authorized to draft or revise 
meeting minutes. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22.
6 Rather, the Open Meeting Law requires that public 
bodies create and maintain accurate minutes of their meetings. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Ultimately, 
it is the public body’s responsibility to ensure that its meeting minutes are accurate. An 
allegation that the Chair “stripped away” the Complainant’s language from the minutes and 
replaced it with his own, even if true, does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law; 
therefore, we decline to review this allegation.  
 
 T o th
e extent the complaint alleges that the Chair’s revisions to the meeting minutes 
rendered the minutes inaccurate or insufficiently detailed in violation of the Open Meeting Law, 
we find no violation. After comparing the Complainant’s original draft language for the August 5 
minutes and the revised language, as provided in the Board’s response, we find that the content 
 
4 The Law further requires that minutes “of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner.” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations define “timely manner” as being 
“within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show 
good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we encourage “public bodies to approve 
minutes at the next meeting.” Id.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 In the complaint the Complainant quotes language regarding the authority to revise meeting minutes and asserts 
that this language came from a mass.gov website. The quoted language did not come from a mass.gov website and 
does not accurately state any requirement of the Open Meeting Law. Based on our own search, we understand the 
quoted language to have come from doola.com. As explained on its website, doola.com is “a private company that 
provides tools and services to support business formation, compliance, and bookkeeping. We are not affiliated with 
any government agency.”    
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
of the revised language is substantially similar to the complainant’s draft, and in fact includes 
additional detail regarding the matters discussed, although the two versions take a somewhat 
different tone. As such, we do not find that the version of the minutes that the Board ultimately 
approved was insufficient, and we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Timothy D. Zessin, KP Law (via email: TZessin@k-plaw.com) 
Doug Guey-Lee, Marion Conservation Agent and Planner  
(via email: dgueylee@marionma.gov) 
Lissa Magauran, Marion Town Clerk (via email: lmagauran@marionma.gov) 
Eileen Marum (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
