===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       August 9, 2024 
 
OML 2024 – 148 
 
 
Michael J. Sousa, Esq. 
General Counsel 
Fall River Housing Authority 
85 Morgan Street, P.O. Box 989 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only: mike.sousa@fallriverha.org  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Sousa:  
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on January 27, 2024, alleging 
that the Fall River Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
December 7, 2023.  The Board did not respond to this complaint.
1  The second complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on December 12, 2023, and you responded to the complaint, on 
behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 26, 2024, following an extension of time granted by 
this office.  The first complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes.  The second complaint alleges that the Board 
created and approved insufficient minutes of a meeting held on November 13, 2023.   
 
 We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways alleged.  In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s response to the 
second complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, 
 
1 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).    
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
we received the notice and open session minutes of the Board meeting held on November 13, 
2023, as well as a video recording of that meeting.2   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Did Not Timely Respond to a Request for Meeting Minutes. 
 
The first complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely respond to a request for open 
and exe
cutive session meeting minutes.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a).  The minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in draft 
form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  
If minutes do not yet exist at the time of a request, the public body is still required to respond to 
the request within 10 days with an explanation of whether the minutes do or do not exist in either 
approved or draft form.  See OML 2017-50; OML 2016-71; OML 2015-173.3 
 
Executive session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public “as long as 
public
ation may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(f).  When the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and 
any documents or exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client 
privilege or an exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, 
from disclosure.  See id.  Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive 
sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, 
and to announce that determination at the next meeting following its review.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(g)(1); see OML 2019- 35; OML 2015-94; OML 2013-56.  Upon request by any person to 
inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session or any portion thereof, the body must 
respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and release any such minutes where 
publication would not defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session; provided, however, 
that if the body has not performed a review, the public body shall perform the review and release 
the non-exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body's next meeting or 30 
days, whichever first occurs.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2); OML 2012-106; OML 2012-91; OML 
2012-86.  
 
On November 28, 2023, the complainant sent an email to the Board, as well as Board 
Chai
r Mary Sahady, requesting a copy of all open and executive session minutes for calendar 
years 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023.  Requests for meeting minutes may fall under the Public 
Records Law or the Open Meeting Law, depending on how the request is made, and the 
requirements for responding differ. A request for minutes that is directed to a clerk or other 
municipal employees as Records Access Officer will likely fall under the Public Records Law 
and requires a response in 10 business days.  See G.L. c. 66, § 10; OML 2019-126; OML 2019-
68.  A request for meeting minutes made directly to the public body falls under the Open 
 
2 A video recording of the November 13, 2023, meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9aHL5Ujer7o. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website;  https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Meeting Law and requires a response within 10 calendar days.  See G.L. c . 30A, § 22(g)(2); 
OML 2019-125. 
 
 Because the req uest for meeting minutes was directed to the Board and the Board’s 
Chair, the request fell under the Open Meeting Law and required a response within 10 calendar 
days.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 22(c), (g); OML 2019-163.  Where the Board did not respond to the 
November 28, 2023, request for minutes within 10 days, we find that it violated the Open 
Meeting Law.  We understand that the Board has since responded to the request and we therefore 
order no further remedial action with respect to this complaint. 
 
II. The Board Created Insufficient and Inaccurate Minutes of the November 13, 
2023, Meeting. 
 
The second complaint alleges that the Board created and approved insufficient minutes of 
the m
eeting held on November 13, 2023.  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
“create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth 
the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each 
subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial 
compliance with the accuracy requirement.  See OML 2013-64.  By substantial compliance, we 
mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public 
who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred.  See OML 2012-106.  While minutes must include a summary of the discussion on 
each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or 
opinion presented.  See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55.   
 
The November 13, 2023, minutes contain the date, time and place of the meeting, the 
mem
bers who were present, a summary of the discussions, and the decisions made and actions 
taken, including a record of all votes.  The complaint specifically alleges that the minutes do not 
contain a list of documents that the Board used during the meeting.  The Board maintains that 
any documents used “are all referenced in the body of the meeting minutes.”  While we agree 
that certain documents were referenced in the body of the minutes, the Open Meeting Law 
requires that the minutes of a public body’s meeting include a list of all documents and exhibits 
used by the public body during the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2023-238; OML 
2012-91.  The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used at a 
meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open 
meeting, it has been “used” for purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2014-12; OML 
2012-42.  Here, documents were physically present, verbally identified, and their contents were 
discussed during the meeting; yet, the minutes do not contain a list of documents used.  As such, 
we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law and order the Board to revise its minutes to include 
a list of the documents used during the November 13, 2023, meeting. 
 
In 
addition, the complaint alleges that the minutes do not accurately reflect certain of the 
discussions that occurred during the November 13, 2023, meeting.  To be “accurate,” meeting 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
minutes must accurately reflect the discussions that took place during a meeting.  See OML 
2020-62.  Because the minutes must accurately capture the discussions and actions that actually 
took place, it is inappropriate to include information in meeting minutes that was not discussed 
or did not occur at a meeting.  See OML 2021-128.   
 
After reviewing a video recording of the November 13, 2023, meeting, we find that 
certain motions made and actions taken by the Board during the meeting are not accurately 
recorded in the minutes.  First, with respect to Resolution 151 regarding a certificate of 
completion for roof replacement at Sunset Hill, the minutes state “That the Certificate of 
Substantial Completion for the Roof Replacement (Phase 5) at Sunset Hill, Mass. 6-1, be 
approved and designating and authorizing the Chairwoman to execute the Certificate of 
Substantial Completion.”  While the Board unanimously approved the certificate of completion, 
the motion made by Commissioner Jo Ann Bentley and approved by the Board did not designate 
or authorize the Chair to executive the certificate.  As such, we find that the above statement - 
“designating and authorizing the Chairwoman to execute the Certificate of Substantial 
Completion” - included in the minutes does not accurately reflect the motion made and action 
taken during the meeting.   
 
Second, with respect to the three resolutions (Resolution 158, 159 and 160) to appoint a 
Cle
rk Interviewer, Painter, and Carpenter, the minutes reflect the motions made for each 
appointment as “the appointment of [name], to the position of [title] . . . with a work week 
consisting of [number of hours and days]” and listed a weekly or hourly salary.  The motions 
actually made during the meeting were simply “to ratify the appointment” of the specifically 
named individual to the particular position.  Therefore, inclusion in the minutes of the number of 
hours to be worked a week and the salary changed the meaning of the motions, and was therefore 
inappropriate and did not accurately reflect the motions actually made during the meeting.  See 
OML 2019-145. 
 
  We f
ind that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law and order the Board to revise the 
minutes of the November 13, 2023, meeting to remove the above indicated references so that the 
motions and actions taken accurately reflect those that were actually made during the meeting.  
We note that the additional detail with respect to the above motions that was included in the 
minutes does enhance openness and transparency by providing a more thorough record regarding 
the matters that were approved during the meeting.  If the Board wishes to include additional 
context or detail in the minutes that might be helpful to the public in understanding a motion or 
discussion, it may do so but must clearly label such information as included for background or 
context, rather than inaccurately presenting the information as if it were part of the motion or 
discussion during the meeting.  
 
Finally, with respect to the concerns raised in the complaint that the minutes include 
additional detail about the resolutions discussed by the Board during the meeting, such as the 
resolution number, which number was not actually stated by the Chair when she introduced each 
matter, we decline to find a violation. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely respond to a request for meeting minutes, and by creating and approving 
insufficient and inaccurate minutes of the meeting held on November 13, 2023.  We order the 
Board to revise the minutes of the meeting held on November 13, 2023, in accordance with the 
guidance provided above, within 30 days of the date of this letter.  In addition, we order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Fall River Housing Authority Board of Commissioners – By email only: 
board@fallriverha.org 
Fall River City Clerk – By email only: city_clerk@fallriverma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
