===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
April 25, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 - 83 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Erin Gibbons 
Chair, Wayland School Committee 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
 
Erin_Gibbons@waylandps.org 
  
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Gibbons: 
 
This office received a complaint from George Harris on January 16, 2024, alleging that 
the Wayland School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on November 6, and you
1 
responded on behalf of the Committee by letter dated November 17.2  The complaint alleges that 
the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it posted insufficient notice of its October 
24 meeting; and when Committee Chair Erin Gibbons did not clearly announce the names of the 
members attending the October 24 meeting remotely. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
failing to post sufficiently specific notice of the October 24 meeting.  We find that the 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Committee’s response and the 
request for further review.  We also reviewed minutes of the October 24 executive session in 
camera.  Finally, we viewed a recording of the open session of the October 24 meeting.
3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The notice of the Committee’s October 24 meeting listed 
the following topics of discussion: 
 
1 Hereinafter, you are referred to in the third person as the Committee Chair 
2 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
3 The recording can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XOaJ_n-AsIk  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
Executive Session: Discussion regarding Strategy in Preparation for Negotiations with 
Non-Union Personnel (Acting Superintendent), pursuant to M.G.L. c.30A, §21(a)(2) 
Open Session: Discussion of Acting Superintendent for FY25 and Possible Vote to 
Appoint Acting Superintendent 
 
 The meeting went forward as scheduled on October 24.  All members participated 
remotely.  At the commencement of the meeting, Committee Chair Gibbons announced that “we 
have Jeanne Downs, Erin Gibbons, Erin Mueller and Christina Rodrigo present.”  The 
Committee convened in executive session following a motion that tracked the language on the 
meeting notice.  When the Committee reconvened in open session, Chair Gibbons stated that 
“the committee is really excited to announce that we are looking forward to entering into another 
year of David Fleishman serving as our Acting / Interim Superintendent.”  A motion was made 
and passed to appoint Dr. Fleishman as the Interim Superintendent for the 2024-2025 school year 
and to authorize Chair Gibbons to execute a contract with him.  The meeting was then adjourned. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. Notice of the October 24 meeting was insufficiently specific.  
 
Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reason
ably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
We generally consider a topic sufficiently detailed when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion.  See 
OML 2023-234; OML 2021-116; OML 2015-35.4  The Open Meeting Law does not require a 
public body to anticipate the course of deliberation or the outcome of a discussion, only that it 
identify the discussion topic with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the 
issues to be discussed at the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 
2022-236; OML 2017-186; OML 2014-38.  The Open Meeting Law also does not require a 
public body to list each and every detail about a topic in order for the listing of topics to be 
sufficiently specific.  See OML 2022-236; OML 2018-60.  However, we have consistently stated 
that the names of interviewees and applicants for appointment or employment which are known 
48 hours in advance of a meeting should be included on a meeting notice.  See OML 2023-15; 
OML 2022-236; OML 2022-217; OML 2013-163; cf. OML 2023-107 (Committee was not 
required to list individuals because it did not discuss individual candidates); OML 2016-133 
(same).   
 
The c
omplainant alleges that notice of the October 24 meeting should have listed Dr. 
Fleischman by name.  The Committee denies that it violated the Open Meeting Law, making two 
alternative arguments: (1) At the time that the meeting notice was posted, the Committee was not 
certain that Dr. Fleishman would be the individual to be discussed in open session, so including 
his name would have been premature; and (2) Dr. Fleishman was identified in the notice by his 
title, Acting Superintendent. 
 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
We have reviewed minutes of the October 24 executive session in camera.  Because the 
minutes have not yet been released to the public, we do not detail their contents here.  Based 
upon our review of the executive session minutes, it is clear that David Fleishman was a leading, 
and likely the only, candidate being considered for the position of Interim Superintendent and 
that the Committee anticipated discussing him specifically.  It was not sufficient to identify Dr. 
Fleishman by title (Acting Superintendent), especially where the Committee itself used the terms 
“Acting Superintendent” and “Interim Superintendent” interchangeably during the meeting and 
where both titles suggest a temporary position, thus not reasonably notifying the public that the 
individual then serving in that role was the same person under consideration for appointment.  As 
the Committee failed to list David Fleishman as a candidate under consideration for the position 
of Interim Superintendent, it violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
II. Announcement of the members in attendance was compliant with the Open 
Meeting Law.  
 
The Open Meeting Law allows members of public bodies to participate in meetings 
remotely.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(d); 940 CMR 29.10.  Moreover, in response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, the requirement that a quorum of a public body be physically present at the meeting 
place was suspended, allowing all members to participate remotely, so long as the public body 
provides “adequate, alternative means” of public access, such as through telephone, internet or 
satellite enabled audio or video conferencing.  See An Act Relative to Extending Certain 
COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency, Chapter 20 of the Acts of 2021; 
Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2023 (extending this provision until March 31, 2025).  
 
When a member of a public body participates in a meeting remotely, the remote member 
and “all persons present at the meeting location [must be] clearly audible to each other.”  G. L. c. 
30A, § 20(d); see also 940 CMR 29.10(4)(a).  The Open Meeting Law requires that at the start of 
the meeting the chair announce the name of any member who will be participating remotely.  
940 CMR 29.10(7)(b).   
 
There is a certain subjectivity to determining whether a person is “clearly audible” in a 
rem
ote broadcast.  An evaluation of audio quality inevitably turns on listening to a recording of 
the meeting.  See, e.g., OML 2021-2 (“[T]he video of the meeting demonstrates that all Board 
members were clearly audible to the observing public when speaking.”)  Here, the Committee 
Chair announced the names of all attending members at the commencement of the meeting.  
Likely because it is an announcement she has made on dozens of prior occasions, the Committee 
Chair recited the members’ names quickly.  The announcement may have been rushed but it 
cannot be said that it was not clearly audible.  Therefore, we do not find a violation as to the 
announcement of the names of members participating remotely.  We remind the Committee, 
however, that members of the public may be hearing the members’ names for the first time, so 
they should be announced slowly and deliberately. 
 
  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting insufficiently specific notice of the October 24 meeting.  We order the Committee’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s requirements and caution that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Committee or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland School Committee (via email: school committee@waylandps.org)  
George Harris (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
 
 
 
