===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 14, 2014 
OML 2014-134 
Stephen F. Madaus, Esq. 
Mirick O'Connell 
100 Front Street 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Madaus: 
This office received a complaint from Selectman Mark Ferguson, dated June 16, alleging 
that the Holden Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§18-25.1 Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board entered into executive session for an 
improper purpose during its March 17 meeting, and that the Board failed to provide Mr. 
Ferguson with notice that he would be the subject of the Board's executive session discussion on 
that date and offer him an opportunity to request that the session be open. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about March 24. The Board responded to the complaint by 
letter dated May 9, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In reaching 
this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's response, and 
the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed, in camera, the minutes of the 
Board's March 17 executive session. We reviewed the notice for the Board's March 17 meeting 
and the open session minutes of the Board's April 7 and June 2 meetings. We also reviewed, in 
camera, a confidential March 13 memorandum from a Town employee to Board Chair Robert 
Lavigne. Finally, we reviewed several letters sent to our office by the complainant's attorney 
and the Board's attorney.2 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body. The complainant, 
Mr. Ferguson, is a member of the Board. On March 13, Board Chair Robert Lavigne received a 
memorandum from a Town employee concerning the Board. The memorandum did not threaten 
the Board with legal action or otherwise suggest that the employee planned to seek legal 
recourse. However, based on the content of the memorandum and context in which it was 
received, the Board's counsel believed the memorandum threatened imminent litigation. 
The Board posted notice for a March 17 meeting. The notice included an executive 
session topic, and identified two purposes for that executive session: 
Executive Session: (i) To discuss strategy with respect to litigation, provided the 
Chairman publicly declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
litigation position of the Town, as permitted by MGL c. 30A, Section 21 (a) (3); and/or 
(ii) To comply with or act under the authority of any general or special law and receive 
legal advice relative thereto, as permitted by MGL c. 3OA, Section 21 (a) (7) and in 
accordance with the holding Suffolk Construction Co., Inc. v. DCAM, 449 Mass. 444 
(2007) 
During the March 17 meeting, the Board voted 4-1, with Mr. Ferguson opposed, to enter 
into executive session for the reasons stated in the notice. Because the minutes of this executive 
session remain confidential, we do not reveal their content in detail here. During the executive 
session, the Board met with counsel to discuss the employee's memorandum and the possibility 
that that the facts asserted therein could lead to litigation. Mr. Ferguson objected to the propriety 
of the executive session and left the meeting. 
There is disagreement among the parties as to whether the employee who was the subject 
of the executive session discussion was present during that portion of the meeting. Mr. Ferguson 
maintains that the employee was present. However, the executive session minutes do not include 
the employee in the list of attendees. Furthermore, Town Counsel, the employee, and another 
attorney who was present during the executive session all maintain that the employee was not 
present during the executive session. We find the weight of the evidence supports a finding that 
the employee was not present during the executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
A public body may enter into executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 21(a). One permissible reason for executive session is, "[t]o discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). The mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive 
session Purpose 3. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
2 
===PAGE 3===
demonstrably likely. See Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 
(1983); OML 2012-5.3 
A public body may also enter into executive session to "comply with, or act under the 
authority of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(7) ("Purpose 7"). A public body may invoke Purpose 7 only where a general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirement requires that the public body act in a confidential manner. 
See Dist. Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009) 
(explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires enumeration of 
enabling law); OML 2013-23. Finally, a public body may enter into executive session "[t]o 
discuss . .. complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or 
individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) ("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed in a Purpose 
1 executive session must be notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the 
proposed executive session. Id. 
The Board cited both Purpose 3 and Purpose 7 as bases for its March 17 executive 
session. We address each purpose in turn. First, the Board entered into executive session during 
its March 17 meeting under Purpose 3 because counsel believed it was necessary to discuss with 
the Board the potential consequences of the employee's March 13 memorandum, including 
litigation. Though the March 13 memorandum did not explicitly threaten litigation, counsel 
interpreted the memorandum as carrying such a threat, and the Board followed counsel's advice 
when it decided to discuss the matter in executive session. Because the Board members 
reasonably believed that litigation was imminently threatened, based on advice of counsel, we 
find that they did not violate the Open Meeting Law by entering into executive session under 
Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5. Additionally, because Purpose 3 does not require notice to 
specific individuals, the Board did not violate the law by not providing Mr. Ferguson with 
individual advance notice of the executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3); OML 2012-53 
(determining that, where a public body lawfully entered into executive session under Purpose 3, 
it did not need to also follow the procedural requirements for Purpose 1). Finally, while we 
acknowledge that the presence of an opposing party in an executive session can undermine a 
public body's ability to claim that its litigating position would be harmed by open discussion, 
here we find that the employee was not present during the executive session. 
In addition to Purpose 3, the Board cited Purpose 7 as a reason for its March 17 executive 
session. However, the Board failed to identify any enabling law that required the Board's 
discussion to be confidential. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7); Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 
at 569 (explaining that the proper use of Purpose 7 to enter executive session requires 
enumeration of enabling law); OML 2013-23. Because the Board failed to identify a law that 
required confidentiality, we cannot find that Purpose 7 was a valid reason to enter into executive 
session.4 We remind the Board that, if it seeks to enter into executive session under Purpose 7 in 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeetmg. 
4 The Board's response to the complaint mentioned the attorney/client privilege as an additional foundation for its 
executive session. Our office has stated that communication between counsel and a quorum of a public body may 
occur only during a properly posted open meeting or during an executive session held for one of the ten enumerated 
3 
===PAGE 4===
the future, it must identify the law that requires its discussion to remain confidential. See OML 
2013-144. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions. 
cc: Holden Board of Selectmen 
Mark Ferguson 
Robert J. Hennigan, Jr., Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
purposes. OML 2012-55; OML 2011-27; OML 2010-6. The attorney/client privilege itself is not an explicitly 
enumerated basis for executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
Sincerely, 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
4 