===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 19, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 175 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY
  
 
Keith Chenot 
Chair, Fitchburg Historical Commission 
 
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Chenot: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jacquelyn Wehtje on August 23, 2022,
1 alleging 
that the Fitchburg Historical Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on July 11. The 
Commission did not formally respond to the complaint. The complaint alleges that the 
Commission failed to respond to a request for meeting minutes.   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. 
In reaching this determination we reviewed the original Open Meeting Law complaint; the 
request for further review, including an attached email chain; email correspondence between the 
Chair
2 and our office dated August 23 and 24; and additional communications from the 
Complainant.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes must be created and approved in a 
timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). “Timely manner” means “within the next three public body 
meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for 
further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
be approved at the next meeting. Finally, “[t]he minutes of an open session, if they exist and 
whether approved or in draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 
days.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). 
 
The complaint alleges that the Complainant requested meeting minutes from the 
Commission on June 22 and that the Commission failed to respond to this request. The request 
for further review clarifies that the Complainant requested minutes for meetings held in April 
and May of 2018; all meetings held in 2021; and meetings held in January, February, March, and 
April of 2022.  
 
In response to an inquiry from our office regarding the status of the Commission’s 
response, the Chair did not dispute that the Complainant had requested meeting minutes or that 
the Commission had failed to respond to the request. Instead, the Chair explained that the 
Commission does not have staff and that it was “working to assemble, [and] if possible approve, 
. . . and post as many of the past meeting minutes as possible.” The Chair further explained that 
approved minutes for meetings held in January, February, March, and April of 2022 had been 
posted and that no meetings were held in May or June of 2022. On September 1, the 
Complainant emailed our office informing us that she had not yet received draft meeting 
minutes. 
 
We find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely 
respond to a request for meeting minutes. Additionally, we understand, based on the Chair’s 
communication with our office, that the Commission has failed to timely create and approve 
meeting minutes. We appreciate the demands placed on a public body without dedicated 
administrative staff; however, the public body is still obligated to create and approve minutes of 
its meetings in a timely manner. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); OML 2021-164; OML 2015-86.
3 If 
staff resources are not available to create minutes for a public body to approve, then public body 
members must take on this responsibility to ensure compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Final
ly, although not raised in a formal complaint, we note that the Commission did not 
respond to the complaint at issue here as required by the Open Meeting Law. After receiving an 
Open Meeting Law complaint, a public body must, within 14 business days, meet to review the 
complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send a response to the 
complainant. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). The public body must also provide the 
Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind the Commission of its obligation to comply with all 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the obligation to respond to Open Meeting Law 
complaints. 
  
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to respond to the Complainant’s request for meeting minutes. We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. 
Additionally, we order the Commission to provide the Complainant with the requested meeting 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
minutes, whether approved or in draft form, within 30 days of the date of this letter and to certify 
to our office that it has done so.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Commission. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fitchburg Historical Commission (via e-mail: HistoricCommission@fitchburgma.gov) 
Stephen DiNatale, Mayor of the City of Fitchburg (via e-mail: 
SDiNatale@fitchburgma.gov) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: )  
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
