===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
December 10, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 240 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Douglas M. Bushman, Esq. 
Executive Director, Fitchburg Housing Authority 
DBushman@fitchburgha.org  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Bushman: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jacquelyn Wehtje on July 29, 2024,
1 alleging that 
the Fitchburg Housing Authority Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or 
about June 28, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated July 18. The complaint 
alleges that, with respect to the Board’s June 28 meeting, 1) the doors to the meeting room were 
locked and the Complainant only gained entry when members of the public let her in, and 2) 
updates regarding the Wallace Towers Project, a topic not included on the meeting notice, were 
discussed with the Board prior to the meeting being formally convened.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice for the June 28 
meeting and draft minutes of the meeting that were posted online. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to “eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). To this end, the Law requires that all communications 
“between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction” 
occur during a meeting that has been properly noticed and that is open to members of the public, 
unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18, 20(a)-(b), 21. In order for a meeting 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
to be truly open to the public, the meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration 
of t
he meeting. See OML 2014-118 (finding that a locked door and a “closed” sign served as a 
deterrent to attending a meeting, in violation of the Open Meeting Law).2 Ideally, doors 
necessary to access meeting locations should not be locked. However, we have found that a 
meeting in a locked building is sufficiently accessible where members of the public can promptly 
access the building by notifying personnel or knocking on a window. See OML 2011-52; see 
also OML 2017-172 (finding that a meeting location with a locked door was sufficiently 
accessible where a note was posted on the door with instructions for how to gain entrance to the 
meeting). 
 
The B
oard posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 28 at 1:00 p.m. The notice 
listed the meeting location as “C. J. Durkin Conference Room, 50 Day Street, in the City of 
Fitchburg, Massachusetts,” the building in which the Fitchburg Housing Authority is located. 
With respect to the June 28 meeting, the Complainant alleges that the doors to the meeting room 
were locked and that, after checking in at the front office and then waiting for fifteen minutes, 
the Complainant only gained entry to the meeting room when members of the public let her in. 
The Board asserts that the building in which the meeting was held has security measures and that 
as such, a member of the public wishing to attend a Board meeting must first check in at the front 
office. The Board further asserts that on June 28 after the Complainant checked in at the front 
office, someone called down to the meeting room to inform the Board that a member of the 
public was there and wished to attend the meeting. Finally, the Board asserts that the Director of 
Maintenance and Facilities met the Complainant and escorted her to the meeting room.   
 
Although the Complainant and the Board provide different versions of events with 
respect to how the Complainant gained entrance to the meeting room, it is clear from the 
complaint, the response, and the request for further review that the Complainant was able to 
access the meeting prior to the formal start of the meeting, even if not prior to the start time listed 
on the meeting notice.
3 Indeed, the second allegation in the complaint is based on the 
Complainant witnessing comments made to the Board prior to the official start of the meeting. 
Because it is clear that the Complainant was able to access the meeting prior to its start, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the accessibility of its June 
28 meeting. Although we do not find a violation here, we remind the Board that its meetings 
must be accessible to any member of the public who wishes to attend throughout the duration of 
the meeting.  
 
Next, the complaint alleges that immediately prior to the Board formally convening the 
June 28 meeting, “[u]pdates to the Wallace Towers Project were discussed with a quorum of 
board members present,” and that this topic was not included on the meeting notice. Specifically, 
the Complainant alleges that one of the individuals who helped her gain access to the meeting 
appeared to be a contractor for the Wallace Towers Project and that this individual discussed the 
project with the Board, with the individual doing “most” of the speaking. The Board asserts “that 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The meeting notice listed a start time of 1:00 p.m. Based on the information provided to our office, the meeting 
started approximately four minutes late. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
no discussions or decisions occurred” prior to the meeting formally convening and that instead 
the Executive Director4 simply informed the Board that a contract was being signed by the State.  
 
It is clear from the information provided that some comments regarding the Wallace 
Towers Project were made by either the Executive Director, a member of the public, or both 
prior to the start of the June 28 meeting. However, the complaint does not specifically allege that 
any member of the Board discussed the project and there has been no specific evidence presented 
to support a finding that the Board deliberated prior to the formal start of the June 28 meeting. 
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the 
second allegation. However, we caution the Board that the Law defines “deliberation” very 
broadly, as noted above, and that the definition is not limited to opinion or decision-making 
communications. See OML 2015-3; OML 2018-9. A one-way communication from one public 
body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no 
other members respond. See OML 2020-136.   
 
 Finally, although not raised in the complaint we note that the minutes of the June 28 
mee
ting that are posted online do not comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
We do not find a violation here where this issue was not raised in the complaint and where the 
minutes posted online are marked “draft,” but we take this opportunity to provide the following 
guidance. The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). Meeting minutes 
must include “the date, time and place [of the meeting], the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes.” Id.  
 
When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
subst
antial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2016-105; OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. The Open Meeting Law requires that 
meeting minutes include more than a statement that a public body held a discussion about a 
specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes summarize the substance of the public body’s 
discussion. See OML 2020-53; OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8. Finally, minutes of open session 
meetings must be created and approved in a timely manner, G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c), which the 
Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations define as being “within the next three public 
body meetings or within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause 
for further delay.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). The draft minutes of the June 28 meeting posted online 
fall far short of the accuracy requirement where they include absolutely no summary of any 
discussion and where they list three motions made but do not record any votes taken. We 
strongly encourage the Board to amend the minutes of its June 28 meeting to comply with 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law as outlined above and to approve the minutes as is also 
required.  
 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Thomas Hughes, Interim Chair, Fitchburg Housing Authority Board of Commissioners  
(via email: THughes@fitchburgha.org)  
Adam Goodwin, Vice-Chair, Fitchburg Housing Authority Board of Commissioners  
(via email: AGoodwin@fitchburgha.org) 
Joanna Bilotta, City Clerk (via email: jbilotta@fitchburgma.gov) 
Jacquelyn Wehtje (via email: ) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
