===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
March 22, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 36 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Deborah Pelletier 
Clerk, Fall River Cultural Council 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Ms. Pelletier: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 5, 2021,1 alleging that 
the Fall River Cultural Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Council on February 3, and you responded on 
behalf of the Council by letter dated February 19.      
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Council’s 
response, the request for further review, the notice for the Council’s February 2 meeting, and 
video recordings of the Council’s February 2 and 16 meetings.2   
 
Notice for the Council’s February 2 meeting included the topic “Review all (41) grant 
applicants to determine awards.” The complaint alleges that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to list the specific applicants to be considered. We find, and the Council 
acknowledges, that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on the 
notice for the February 2 meeting a list of the specific grant applicants to be discussed. See G.L. 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2021, unless otherwise stated.  
2 Video recordings of the Council’s meetings may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCl5hiccLAnRfSZHVug8R-_A. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b); OML 2018-96; OML 2017-33.3 In its response, the 
Council commits to listing specific applicants on all future agendas. 
 
Next, the complaint alleges that the Council failed to take all votes by roll call at the 
February 2 meeting where members participated remotely. We find, and the Council 
acknowledges, that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to take all votes by 
roll call at its February 2 meeting where members participated remotely. See 940 CMR 
29.10(7)(c); OML 2020-89. Again, in its response, the Council commits to taking all future votes 
by roll call when one or more members participate in a meeting remotely. Where, as occurred 
here, a public body acknowledges a violation in response to a complaint, and commits to 
complying with the Law in the future, we encourage complainants to consider whether further 
review by this office is necessary to advance the Open Meeting Law’s goal of improved 
government transparency.  
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list on the notice for its February 2 meeting the specific grant applicants to be 
discussed, and by failing to take all votes by roll call during its February 2 meeting. We order the 
Council’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that future 
similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Richard Pelletier, Chair of the Fall River Cultural Council (via email: 
  
 Patrick Higgins (via email  
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
