===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 161 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Sarah Gold 
Chair, Marblehead School Committee 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Gold: 
This office received a complaint from Jenn Schaeffner on July 14, 2021, alleging that the 
Marblehead School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 3, and you responded 
to Ms. Schaeffner on behalf of the Committee by email dated May 23.1 In her complaint, Ms. 
Schaeffner alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a posted meeting at a social event 
on April 9. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed a copy of a 
Facebook post from the April 9 social event. We emailed Chair Gold on several occasions in 
October of 2021.2 We also questioned Committee members Meagan Taylor and Emily Barron by 
email on October 18 regarding the discussions that took place at the April 9 event. Ms. Taylor 
responded on October 29. Ms. Barron did not respond.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body. On April 9, 
Committee Members Meagan Taylor and Emily Barron attended a social event at Committee 
Chair Sarah Gold’s home, along with the School Superintendent. Chair Gold posted a picture 
taken at the event on her personal Facebook page which showed six people raising glasses in a 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
toast. Chair Gold captioned the post, “Cheers to job well done to balanced budgets and kids in 
school! #bubyecovid #vueveclicquot #proudofus #togetherwegofar.” Except for this toast 
celebrating the completion of the annual school budget process, the three Committee members 
did not discuss the recently completed school budget during the social event.  
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
the deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based. Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as 
“a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines a “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction,” but explicitly excludes “attendance by a quorum of a public 
body at a public or private gathering, including a conference or training program or a media, 
social or other event, so long as the members do not deliberate.” Id; OML 2016 - 134.3 For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id. 
  The presence of a quorum of a public body at a private social event can create the 
appearance of improper deliberation. See OML 2016-134. However, based on the available 
evidence in this case, we do not find that deliberation took place. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
Although three members of the Committee—a quorum—attended the April 9 event, we find no 
evidence that the Committee discussed matters within the Committee’s jurisdiction.4 The 
Committee has consistently asserted that the three members who attended the April 9 event did 
not discuss either the substance or procedure of the annual budget process during the social 
event. Ms. Taylor also stated, when asked, that the Committee did not discuss the future of in-
person learning in Marblehead schools, which was a topic under discussion by the Committee at 
the time. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the 
facts. See OML 2019-73; OML 2017-93. For these reasons, we do not find that a quorum of the 
Committee deliberated at the April 9 social event and we do not find that the Committee violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  
 Finally, we note that Chair Gold called our office on April 14 to report what had occurred 
and to seek guidance regarding whether the attendance of a quorum of the Committee at the 
social event violated the Open Meeting Law, and how best to proceed. The Committee then 
disclosed and discussed the matter at two open meetings, on April 15 and May 13. Finally, we 
note that, in response to the complaint, Committee members Gold, Taylor and Barron all 
attended Open Meeting Law training webinars hosted by our office.  
 
 
3 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
4 The celebratory toast on its own does not constitute deliberation because it merely acknowledged a topic that the 
Committee had already completed in an open meeting. See OML 2019-78. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Jenn Schaeffner (via e-mail: ) 
 Marblehead Town Administrator Jason Silva (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
