===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE  OF  THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 8, 2012 
OML 2012-34 
Katharine Doyle, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch St. 
Boston, MA 02110 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Doyle: 
This office received a complaint from Ms. Jodie Parker dated November 17, 
2010, alleging a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
Templeton Conservation Commission (the "Commission"). The complaint was 
originally filed with the Commission on or around October 20, 2010. The complainant 
alleges that the minutes for a meeting of the Commission held on September 20, 2010 are 
not accurate, and that the Commission discussed items not listed on the meeting agenda. 
More specifically, the complainant's November 17, 2010 letter to our office alleges that 
certain statements attributed to members of the public in the minutes were never made, 
and that action was taken on items not listed in the meeting notice. 
We reviewed the October 20, 2010 complaint filed with the Commission; the 
Commission's November 5, 2010 response; the complaint filed with this office on 
November 17, 2010; the notice for and minutes of the Commission's September 20, 2010 
meeting; and a document titled "Chairman Notes 20 Sep 2010." We also interviewed the 
following individuals by telephone on the following dates: the complainant, on March 8, 
2012; Bob Young, on March 20, 2012; Gail Gabis, on March 21, 2012; and Commission 
Chair Shaun Grimley, on March 29, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties as we reviewed this matter. Following 
our review, we fmd that the portions of the minutes relating to statements made by Ms. 
Gabis and Mr. Young were not inaccurate, however we find that the notice for the 
Commission's September 20, 2010 meeting did not contain sufficient detail about a 
reasonably anticipated topic of discussion. 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Commission posted notice for a September 20, 2010 meeting on or around 
September 15, 2010. The first item listed on the agenda included the topics "Chairman's 
Report" and "Agent's Report." The second item on the posted agenda was "Federal 
Aviation Administration — Request for Determination of Applicability." 
According to the minutes, during the discussion of agenda item one, there was 
discussion about the fact that "Nhe Selectmen's appointment of the Agent as Project 
Manager for two land acquisitions, and associated LAND Grants, has created the need for 
an increase in the Agent's hours." Commissioner Symonds then made a motion "to 
increase the Agent's hours by 3 per week." The motion passed, with one Commissioner 
voting no. An occasionally heated discussion followed about whether the Commission 
had the authority to approve such an increase, resulting in one Commissioner leaving the 
room. According to the complainant, the topic of additional hours for the Agent is one of 
great concern to many Town residents, and she believes it was intentionally omitted from 
the agenda. According to the Commission's response to the original complaint, "the 
Chair was not aware of the content of the Agent's report prior to the meeting." 
The minutes then reflect that the Commission discussed agenda item two, the 
Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Request for Determination of Applicability. 
The minutes describe the project as "Memoval of all trees within a 500-foot radius 
(approximately 11 acres total area) of the VOR facility on Dolbier Hill." Property 
owners Gail Gabis and Bob Young spoke in favor of the project. According to the 
minutes, "Ms. Gabis was concerned that if the project was not approved airplanes could 
fall out of the sky and if that happened, it would be the fault of the Commission. Mr. 
Young then started shouting that he doesn't care about Federal, State or local laws and 
it's about safety." Although the complainant's November 17, 2010 letter alleges that 
neither statement was actually made during the meeting, during our interviews with Mr. 
Young and Ms. Gabis, both confirmed that they had, in fact, made statements to that 
effect. 
DISCUSSION 
I. 	 The Identified Statements in the Meeting Minutes were not Inaccurate 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). While the 
minutes must include a summary of the discussions on each subject, a transcript is not 
required.' 
I  Note, however, that other statutes may impose additional requirements for public hearings. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
When reviewing meeting minutes for compliance with the requirement to create 
and maintain accurate meeting minutes, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. OML 2011-55. 2  By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who 
did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. Id. Because Ms. Gabis and Mr. Young both confirmed that the statements and 
actions attributed to them in the minutes are correct, we decline to find that those portions 
of the minutes are inaccurate. 
Failure to Provide Notice with Sufficient Specificity 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice 48 hours in 
advance of a meeting and include, a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies are required to list 
topics in a meeting notice with "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of 
the issues to be discussed at the meeting." 940 CMR 29.03. We generally consider a topic 
to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. 
The September 15, 2010 meeting notice contained the topics "Chairman's 
Report" and "Agent's Report." This was not sufficiently specific for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law. The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a public 
body guess what will occur during a meeting. But the chair does need to list those topics 
that he or she reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). With regard 
to regularly occurring items such as this, therefore, the chair should list all items that he 
or she anticipates discussing, and make reasonable efforts to ascertain what the Agent 
plans to discuss, including all matters that are reasonably anticipated in the meeting 
notice. 
During our interview, the Chair stated that, at the time, he thought that the 
proposal to engage the Agent for an additional three hours per week was simply a 
housekeeping matter and, since the money was already available, there was no need to 
put this item in the notice of the meeting that was posted. He was quite clear that he had 
no intention to keep the matter from the public, and no evidence to the contrary has been 
submitted to us. The Chair and counsel also both stated that, since the current version of 
the Open Meeting Law had only been in effect for a few months at the time this meeting 
occurred, the Commission still did not fully understand its requirements. Both have 
assured us that, since that time, the Commission has been particularly careful to include 
sufficient detail in notices of meetings, and the Chair stated he has made it a practice to 
ask the land grants project manager prior to the notice dates what matters the manager 
might raise at the meeting. We have been given no reason to doubt the truthfulness of 
these representations. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at www.mass.govlagolopenmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the portions of the minutes relating to 
statements made by Ms. Gabis and Mr. Young were not inaccurate, however we find that 
the notice for the Commission's September 20, 2010 meeting did not contain sufficient 
detail about a reasonably anticipated topic of discussion. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Commission. Please feel free to contact this office if you have any 
questions or believe any information in this letter to be inaccurate. 
Amy L. Nable 
Assistant Attorney General 
Director, Division of Open Government 
cc: Jodie Parker 
Brian Riley, Esq. 
Shaun Grimley 
4 