===PAGE 1===
THE COMMO NWEALTH OF MASSA CHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATIORNEY GENERAL 
Frank K. Duffy, Jr., Esq. 
Town of Falmouth 
Office of Town Counsel 
157 Locust Street 
Falmouth, MA 02540-2658 
ONE ASIIBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
October ·3, 2019 
OML 2019 - 123 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Duffy: 
(617) 727 -2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
This office received two complaints from Michael Heylin on August 2 and September 12, 
alleging that the Falmouth Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on July 17 and 
August 8; and you responded , on behalf of the Board, by letters dated July 30 and August 23. 
The first complaint alleges that the Board adjourned its July 9 meeting and then re-convened ten 
minutes later. The second complaint alleges that the minut es for the Board ' s July 9 meeting are 
inaccurate. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters. Following 
our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged . In reaching 
this determination , we reviewed the original complaints , the Board 's responses to the complaints , 
and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices 
and open session minutes of the Board 's July 9 and July 23 meetings, as well as video-recordings 
of the July 9 and July 23 meetings. 2 Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on 
September 24. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board duly posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Monday, July 9 at 7:00 P.M. The notice included four main topics - Open Session, Swnmary of 
Actions , Public Hearings, and Business , with specific item descriptions listed under each of these 
topic headings that further advised the public of the topics to be discussed. Specifically , the 
1 All dates in this letter refer to tbe year 2018. 
2 The video-recording of the July 9 meeting is ava ilable at https://www.youtube.c om/watch ?v=g54eatWE s8; the 
video-recording of the July 23 meeting is available at https://www. youtube.com/ watch?v=ZPkbHVhmBiO. 
===PAGE 2===
notice included a public comment period ; an entertainment license, eight administra tive orders, 
and eight special events seeking the Committee's approval; two public hearings; four interviews; 
two presentations; reports from the Cable Advisory Committee, Eversource, Departmen t of 
Public Works, and Trustees of Falmouth Affordable Housing ; consideration of three sign 
variances; discussion of a medical aid in dying resolution and community outreach; approval of 
minutes; and reports by the Town Manager and individual Board members. 
The July 9 meeting was held as planned. The Board first recognized the Commission on 
Disabilities for its wellness fair and then held a public comment period. Chair Susan Moran 
announced the rules for the comment period stating that public comment is an opportunity for 
those in attendance to speak for two minutes on an issue not on the notice. "It is a one issue, 
one-person limit." She acknowledged that a number of people in attendance wanted to speak 
about Gosnold, but that the audience should choose one member to speak on that issue. 3 A 
member of the public stated that she believed there was no limit on the number of individuals 
who can speak. Chair Moran explained that "it is the prerogative of the Chair and there is going 
to be one-person, two minutes tonight." Members of the audience voiced their displeasure and 
Chair Moran stated that "if there is an interruption, we will adjourn the meeting." Chair Moran 
then asked the audience to "pick your one person." The audience again voiced their displeasure 
and Chair Moran warned them a second tin1e that if they wanted to speak, they should "pick your 
person ." Falmouth resident Sarah Floyd then spoke about the proposed location of Gosnold. 
Approximately three minutes later, Chair Moran announced that her time had expired and 
thanked Ms. Floyd for her input. Ms. Moran then asked if there was any other public comment. 
Hearing none, she attempted to move to the next item on the notice but members of the audience 
began to question her authority to limit public comment. Chair Moran announced that "there 
will not be any interruptions or we will adjourn the meeting ." The audience continued to speak 
and Chair Moran stated "we' re adjourning." It is clear from the video that many members of the 
public did not leave the meeting room and that several Board members remained in the room. 
The Board recessed for approximately ten minutes. Just prior to the Board re-convening, 
a man can be seen on the video speaking to the audience. Although it is unclear what the man 
said because the video-recording is inaudible at this point, several members of the public can be 
seen leaving the room after the man spoke to them. The Board then re-convened the meeting and 
Chair Moran stated that ''any one who does not have business please clear the room, anyone who 
does please take a seat." Many people left the room. 
The Board then approved an application for an entertaimnent license, a preservation 
restriction agreement, and a letter of support for wastewater upgrade in Bourne. The Board then 
discussed a temporary easement for Falmouth Inner Harbor. During this discussion, a person 
interrupted the Board stating that the chair violated chapter 268A of the Massachusetts General 
Laws . Chair Moran stated that if there is another disruption , "we will adjourn again ." The 
individual continued to speak and Chair Moran stated "We are adjourned. We are going to be 
back at 7:30." Most Board members left the room at that point. 
3 Gosnold is an addiction and rehabilitation treatment center , with a proposed location next to a middle school. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Board reconvened at approximately 7:30 P.M. and conducted all the noticed business 
over the next four hours without further interruption. The Board unanimously voted to adjourn 
the meeting at 11 :26 P .M. 
During a July 23 meeting, the Board discussed whether the July 9 minutes were accurate 
with respect to the adjournment of the meeting by the chair during public comment. The draft 
minutes stated that "Chair Moran adjourned the meeting at 7:08 p.m. Chair Moran reconvened 
the meeting at 7: 18 p.m." The Board suggested that the minutes should state that the chair 
"called for adjournment" rather than simply "adjoume d" because the chair did not have the 
authority to adjoum the meeting without a vote. The Board agreed that the chair used the term 
"adjoum" rather than "recess" and so the minutes should use that term . The Assistant Town 
Manager mentioned that he remembered the chair specifically stating that the Board would 
adjourn for ten minutes and suggested that information be included in the minutes. The Board 
agreed with that statement and unanimously approved the minutes as amended. The approved 
minutes state "Chair Moran called for adjournment of the meeting for 10 minutes at 7 :08 p.m. 
Chair Moran reconvened the meeting at 7:18 p.m." 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Board Did Not Violate the Open Meeting Law by "Adjourning" During its 
July 9 Meeting . 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass . 70, 72 (1978) . The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present, as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189. 4 
The first complaint alleges that the Board improperly "adjoumed" its July 9 meeting and 
then "reopened it without giving proper notification." 5 The issue here arises from Chair Moran's 
mistaken use of the word "adjoum," when it is clear from the record that she intended to call for 
a "recess." Chair Moran "adjourned " the July 9 Board meeting after the conclusion of public 
comment and after warning the audience members to stop disrupting the meeting . Although 
Chair Moran's mistaken use of the term "adjourn" would normally be understood to mean that 
the meeting had concluded, several Board members and most of the audience remained in their 
seats during the brief recess. The Board did not take any other action to suggest that the meeting 
had adjoumed nor restrict the public's access to the meeting room in any way. Ten minutes 
later, the Board re-convened the meeting and continued to the next noticed topic . Even though 
Chair Moran used the term "adjourn" a second time after further disruptions from the audience, 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov /ago/openmeeting. 
5 The complaint suggests that Robert's Rules of Order require that a roll call vote be taken in order to adjourn. Even 
if true, this allegation would not be a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to review it. See OML 
2016-155 . 
3 
===PAGE 4===
she specifically stated that the Board would return at 7:30 P.M. The Board reconvened at the 
stated time and continued the meeting. We remind the Board that in the future it should make 
very clear whether it is "recessing" or "adjourning" a meeting. We find that the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law when the chair used the term adjourn rather than recess. See 
OML 2016-169. 
Although not specifically raised in the complaint, we note our concern with Chair 
Moran's statement that "anyone who does not have business please clear the room, anyone who 
does please take a seat" after the Board reconvened a second time. Though we recognize that the 
Open Meeting Law gives clear authority to the chair of a public body to conduct its meetings and 
determine who may speak and participate, the chair may only order a person to withdraw from a 
meeting when a person continues to disrupt a meeting after having been clearly warned. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(g); OML 2018-25. At the time of the chair's statement, no one was disrupting 
the meeting. We remind the Board that all meetings of a public body must be open to the public 
and that any individual may attend an open session meeting regardless of their reason for being 
present. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) . . 
IL The Board's July 9 Meeting Minutes are Sufficiently Detailed and Accurate. 
The second complaint alleges that the July 9 minutes are inaccurate because they do not 
correctly reflect the Board's adjournment during the public comment period. The Open Meeting 
Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including 
executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all 
votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By 
substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so 
that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. 
The July 9 minutes state that "Chair Moran called for adjournment of the meeting for ten 
minutes at 7:08 p.m." The complaint alleges that this statement is inaccurate because the video 
recording does not capture any statement by the chair that the Board would reconvene in ten 
minutes. During the July 23 meeting, the Board discussed the accuracy of the July 9 minutes 
with respect to the adjournment during the public comment period and agreed that Chair Moran 
announced that the Board would return in ten minutes. The video recording does not specifically 
contradict this account as the audio was turned off immediately after the chair announced, "we're 
adjourning." The complainant did not attend the July 9 meeting, therefore, absent specific 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board's version of events and find that the minutes are 
accurate . See OML 2016-58 . 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
4 
===PAGE 5===
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Michael Heylin 
Falmouth Board of Selectmen 
Sincerely , 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 