===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
October 27, 2015 
OML 2015-164 
Janelle M. Austin, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Austin: 
This office received a complaint from Steve Sheehan, dated June 17, 2015, alleging that 
the Rockport Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 3OA, §§ 
18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to make executive session 
meeting minutes available to Mr. Sheehan in response to his requests. The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on April 23, 2015. The Board responded by letter dated May 7, 
2015. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this matter. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response, and the complaint filed with our office. We also spoke with Mr. Sheehan by telephone 
on July 6, 2015, and with the Board's counsel. Attorney Janelle Austin, by telephone on July 8, 
2015.1 Finally, we reviewed an August 11, 2015 email sent by Mr. Sheehan to the Rockport 
Assistant Town Administrator, and a letter from Mr. Sheehan to our office, dated August 13, 
2015. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On February 17, 2015, Mr. Sheehan wrote to the Rockport 
Assistant Town Administrator requesting that the Board forward to him "any/all available BOS 
Executive Session minutes in PDF format." On March 17, 2015, Mr. Sheehan sent the Assistant 
Town Administrator another email, stating that he "would like to begin reading the historical 
BOS meeting minutes - both the regular BOS meeting minutes and the Executive Sessions 
1 For puiposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
minutes.. .1 would like to begin with the earliest historical BOS meeting minutes on record, and 
continue chronologically up through 1980." Mr. Sheehan again wrote to the Assistant Town 
Administrator on March 19, 24, and 25, 2015 regarding his request. 
On March 25, 2015, the Assistant Town Administrator responded to Mr. Sheehan, 
explaining that the Board possessed executive session minutes "from 1985-Present but not all 
have been released. We have confirmed that 1985-1994 have been released but will need to be 
redacted prior to public review. Our review continues for years subsequent to 1994 and are most 
likely on a meeting by meeting basis." The Assistant Town Administrator wrote further that, 
"We have [Board executive session minutes] from 1985-Present in PDF format but as stated 
above, not all have been released and they will require redactions.. .the Executive Session 
minutes that were voted for release require redaction prior to public review. The rate for 
segregation time is $29.31 per hour." 
On March 27, 2015, Mr. Sheehan again requested the Board's meeting minutes, writing 
that, "[s]ince you previously mentioned that all Executive Session minutes (post-1985) are in 
PDF format, I would appreciate receiving all July 1, 2010 to present Executive Session minutes 
via email without any further delay." In response, the Assistant Town Administrator wrote Mr. 
Sheehan on March 27, 2015, explaining that the Town may charge Mr. Sheehan the costs 
associated with reviewing and redacting responsive records. The Assistant Town Administrator 
further wrote that, "where the Town must evaluate the content of the requested executive session 
meeting minutes in order to redact those portions of the minutes that are not subject to public 
disclosure, it may charge a prorated fee... for search time and segregation time expenses, as 
defined by 950 CMR 32.03." 
On April 23, 2015, having not received any executive session minutes from the Board, 
Mr. Sheehan filed the present Open Meeting Law complaint. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board Failed to Review the Requested Executive Session Minutes within 30 Days.2 
The Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to conduct a complete and timely 
review of its executive session minutes as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). The Open 
Meeting Law requires that when a public body receives a request for executive session meeting 
minutes, it shall review those minutes and release "the non-exempt minutes, or any portion 
thereof not later than the body's next meeting or 30 days, whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(f). Thus, the law contemplates a two stage review of executive session minutes, with both 
stages occurring within 30 days of a request. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), (g)(2). First, the public 
body must determine whether the executive session purpose continues to warrant confidentiality. 
G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f). Then, if the purpose has expired, the public body must determine whether 
the attorney-client privilege or one or more of the exemptions under the public records law apply 
2 We note that a public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(g)(2). While the Board responded to Mr. Sheehan's March 17 request within 10 days, it does not appear to have 
responded to his February 17 request to review executive session minutes. We remind the Board of this 
requirement. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
to withhold the minutes, or a portion thereof, from disclosure. Id. At the conclusion of this 
review, the public body must respond to the requester and either make the minutes available or 
provide an explanation of what is being withheld and why. Id. It is clear that, in the present 
instance, the Board failed to do either. 
Thirty six days after receiving his request for executive session minutes, the Board 
notified the requester that the executive session purpose had expired for minutes of meetings 
held between 1985 and 1994. The Board did not state whether the executive session purpose 
continued to justify non-disclosure of any minutes of meetings held prior to that date, however. 
Further, the Board did not state whether the executive session purpose continued to justify non-
disclosure of any minutes of meetings held after that date, stating instead that those minutes 
would be reviewed "on a meeting by meeting basis." It gave no time frame for a review of the 
minutes of meetings held prior to 1985. It is clear, therefore, that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to review its executive session minutes within 30 days of a request to 
determine whether the executive session purpose had expired.3 See G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(g)(2). 
But the Board's response was flawed in other respects as well. Because the Board had 
determined at the time of its response that the executive session purpose had expired for the 
meetings held between 1985 and 1994, it should have either made those minutes available to the 
requestor, in whole or with redactions, or provided an explanation of why they were being 
withheld. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f), (g)(2). Instead, the Board responded with an hourly rate for 
reviewing those minutes pursuant to the Public Records Law. This was improper. Minutes must 
be reviewed for all purposes within 30 days of a request. See id. In order to release "the non-
exempt minutes, or any portion thereof within 30 days, as is required by law, a public body 
must have first reviewed whether any of the permissible exemptions to disclosure apply. See id. 
While we acknowledge the burden that may be associated with this requirement where, as here, 
the request is for an exceptionally large number of minutes, we nevertheless conclude that the 
public's interest in promptly obtaining either minutes of public body meetings or an explanation 
for why they are being withheld justifies this interpretation of the law. Further, we note that the 
Open Meeting Law requires that a public body, or its chair or designee, review the minutes of its 
executive sessions at reasonable intervals to determine if the Open Meeting Law warrants 
continued non-disclosure. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). Faithful adherence to this requirement 
should eliminate the need to review massive numbers of minutes within a short time period, if a 
request such as the one at issue in this complaint is received. Additionally, we encourage those 
seeking a large number of executive session meeting minutes to work with public bodies to 
determine a reasonable schedule for the review and production of such minutes. Here, though, 
Mr. Sheehan was willing to adhere to a reasonable schedule for production yet received no 
minutes at all from the Board in the more than six months following his initial requests. This 
violated the law. 
3 We understand from counsel that, since this complaint was filed, the Board has determined that the executive 
session purpose expired with respect to all executive session meetings held prior to 2015. It does not appear that this 
information was ever conveyed to Mr. Sheehan, however. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
2. The Board May Not Assess of Fee for its Review of Executive Session Minutes in 
Response to Mr. Sheehan's Request. 
The Open Meeting Law states that a public body "shall not assess a fee for the time spent 
in its review." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). The Board states that the rate provided to Mr. Sheehan 
did not pertain to its review of whether or not the executive session meeting minutes should be 
released as set forth in G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(g)(2), but was provided in relation to the redaction 
process, as permitted by 950 CMR 32.06(l)(c) and 950 CMR 32.03. These regulations, 
promulgated by the Supervisor of Records, govern the process by which a government entity 
may respond to a request under the Public Records Law. While these regulations apply generally 
to records, responses to requests for meeting minutes are governed by a more specific law. See 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 22. It is clear that fees for reviewing executive session meeting minutes are 
prohibited by G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(g)(2). Further, as stated above, the required review of executive 
session minutes pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2) includes both a review of whether the 
executive session purpose continues to warrant non-disclosure and, where it does not, whether an 
exemption to the Public Records Law or the attorney-client privileged applies. Accordingly, it is 
not permissible to assess a fee for search and segregation of executive session meeting minutes 
following a request.4 
We acknowledge that a considerable amount of time and effort may be associated with 
this sort of review, however meeting minutes are created for the benefit of the public, as a record 
of a meeting. The Open Meeting Law's prohibition on fees for reviewing executive session 
minutes is an acknowledgement that minutes should be treated differently than other public 
records, and that barriers to accessing them should be low. Accordingly, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by assessing a fee for its review of the requested executive 
session minutes. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to timely review and 
make available minutes of its executive sessions following a request, and by assessing a fee for 
conducting a review of executive session minutes following a request. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution the Board that a 
similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation of the law. 
Additionally, we order the Board to provide an accounting of all executive session minutes 
responsive to Mr. Sheehan's requests, detailing for each set of minutes whether the executive 
session purpose continues to apply; and for those sets of minutes where the executive session 
purpose no longer applies, whether: 1) a specific exemption under the Public Records Law 
applies; 2) the attorney/client privilege applies; or 3) the minutes are available for public review. 
The Board must comply with this order within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter. The 
Board may not charge Mr. Sheehan for its review. 
4 A public body may still charge for providing copies of documents or minutes, in accordance with the Supervisor of 
Records' regulations. G. L. c. 66, § 10(a); 950 CMR 32.06(l)(a). 
4 
===PAGE 5===
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve 
any other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Rockport Board of Selectmen 
Steve Sheehan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 