===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www. m ass. 20 v/a 20 
March 5, 2018 
OML 2018-30 
Christopher Badot 
Administrative Assistant 
Plymouth Board of Selectmen 
26 Court Street 
Plymouth, MA 02360 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Badot: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated November 22, alleging that 
the Plymouth Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25,' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 19; and you responded to 
this office, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated November 29.2 The complaint alleges that the 
Board's September 19 and September 26 meeting notices failed to list an open session prior to its 
executive session topics. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notices of, and open session minutes from, the Board's September 19 and September 26 
meetings. Finally, we spoke with Board Administrative Assistant Christopher Badot by 
telephone on February 21 and February 27, 2018. 
FACTS 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 19 at 6:00 P.M. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The notice first listed the following topics for discussion: 
6:00 p.m. Executive Session 
7:00 p.m. Call to Order 
The notice then included numerous topics for open session discussion. The notice also 
stated the specific purposes for which the Board intended to convene in executive session 
including "Paragraph 3; to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation" 
and "Paragraph 6; to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property," and listed 
the specific matters it planned to discuss in executive session. 
The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, September 26 at 6:30 P.M. 
The notice first listed the following topics for discussion: 
6:30 p.m. Executive Session 
7:00 p.m. Call to Order 
The notice then included additional topics for open session discussion. The notice also 
stated the specific purpose for which the Board intended to convene in executive session which 
included "Paragraph 6; to consider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property," and 
listed the specific properties it planned to discuss in executive session. 
DISCUSSION 
Prior to entering into executive session, a public body must convene in open session, the 
chair must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and a majority of 
the members of the public body must vote to enter into executive session. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) 
(l)-(3). The notice for the Board's September 19 meeting listed an executive session at 6:00 
p.m., with the Call to Order for regular business beginning at 7:00 p.m.; the notice for the 
Board's September 26 meeting listed an executive session at 6:30 p.m., with the Call to Order for 
regular business beginning at 7:00 p.m. When the only business to be discussed during an open 
session are the procedural requirements for entering executive session, we have written that 
public bodies must list "Open Session" on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which 
members of the public are informed that a public body will, in fact, hold an open meeting that 
they are permitted to attend. See OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68.3 Without such notice, members 
of the public are essentially denied the opportunity to attend and learn the reasons for the 
executive session. See OML 2013-195. However, where additional open session topics are 
included in a meeting notice, we have not required that a public body list "Open Session" as a 
distinct topic. See OML 2015-157; OML 2015-110; OML 2015-105. Here, it was clear that an 
open session meeting would take place as the full notices for both September 19 and September 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www. mass. gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
26 provided context placing the executive session as a topic for discussion during an otherwise 
open meeting. We therefore find that the Board was not required to list "Open Session" in its 
meeting notices, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting this statement. 
Although we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law, we are concerned that members 
of the public may be confused by the format of notices such as these. We suggest that the Board 
list "Call to Order" or "Open Session" prior to the executive session so that it is absolutely clear 
to members of the public that the public portion of the meeting begins prior to the executive 
session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(l)-(3). It is our understanding that the Board has now 
adopted this practice and we commend the Board for taking such remedial action in response to 
the complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that this letter does not resolve any 
other complaints that may be pending with this office or with the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 