===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 7, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 67 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Carolyn M. Murray  
KP Law 
Town Counsel to the Town of Wayland 
   
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
This office received two complaints from George Harris—one on August 27 and one on 
November 3, 20211—alleging that the Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated 
the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The first complaint was originally filed with the 
Board on or about July 19, and alleges, generally, that “the Building Department staff routinely 
prepares the meeting notices for the [Board], without the participation of the chair.” More 
specifically, the first complaint also alleges that 1) the notice for the Board’s June 22 meeting 
included a list of topics anticipated “by Building Department staff and not by the chair, who does 
not participate in the process” (emphasis in original); 2) the Chair should have reasonably 
anticipated that the Board would discuss the minutes for its May 25 meeting during the June 22 
meeting; and 3) the Chair’s failure to reasonably anticipate that the Board would discuss the 
minutes of the May 25 meeting caused the Board to post an insufficiently specific notice for the 
June 22 meeting where the notice did not list the May 25 meeting minutes. The second complaint 
was filed with the Board on or about September 1 and alleges that the Board failed to timely 
respond to the July 19 complaint.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the first complaint but did violate the Law as alleged in the second complaint. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s 
responses, the requests for further review, the notice for the Board’s June 22 meeting, a video 
 
1 All dates are in 2021 unless otherwise stated. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
recording of the June 22 meeting, and notices for Board meetings held from January through 
June.2 We also communicated with counsel for the Board via email.3 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. In general, the staff of the Town of Wayland’s 
Building Department, namely the Building Commissioner and Administrative Assistant, create 
the notices for the Board’s meetings and assure that they are posted. When time allows, Building 
Department staff send a draft meeting notice to the Chair for review.  
 
On June 17 the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 22. The notice 
included three generic topics: “Public Comment,” “Review/Accept Minutes,” and “Topics not 
reasonably anticipated by the Chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting, if any.” The notice also 
included detailed descriptions of four applications anticipated for review during the June 22 
meeting.  
 
On June 17, a third-party contractor who had been hired to draft the minutes for the 
Board’s May 25 meeting submitted the draft minutes to the Building Department. The next day, 
June 18, the Administrative Assistant emailed the draft minutes to the Chair for initial review. 
The Chair revised the meeting minutes and emailed the revised minutes to the Administrative 
Assistant on June 21. At 12:53 p.m. on June 21, the Administrative Assistant emailed the revised 
draft minutes to the full Board and requested that the Board members review the draft minutes 
prior to the June 22 meeting.   
 
The Board convened its meeting as scheduled on June 22. Toward the beginning of the 
meeting, noting the topic “Review/Accept Minutes,” the Chair stated that he did not believe the 
minutes were finalized. In response, the Administrative Assistant advised the Chair that the 
Chair had revised the minutes and that the Administrative Assistant had sent the revised minutes 
to the full Board. The Chair then asked the other Board members if they knew the date of the 
minutes that had been circulated. Board member Aida Gennis stated that the minutes were for the 
Board’s May 25 meeting, and the Chair responded “yep, those are the ones.” The Chair then 
asked if the Board members had reviewed the revised minutes and upon hearing that the 
members had reviewed the revised minutes, the Chair moved to approve the minutes. Thereafter, 
the Board voted to approve the minutes for its May 25 meeting.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b). Every notice must include “the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. Where the chair 
delegates to another person responsibility for creating the meeting notice, we look to what that 
person anticipated would be discussed 48 hours prior the meeting. See OML 2020-80; OML 
 
2 Video recordings of the Board’s meetings may be found at https://www.waycam.tv/government -on-demand. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2015-190.4 When the chair of a public body delegates the responsibility for creating a meeting 
notice to another individual, any topics that individual anticipates will be discussed must be 
included on the meeting notice; however, such delegation does not relieve the public body of the 
responsibility for also including topics that the chair specifically anticipates 48 hours in advance 
will be discussed at a meeting. See OML 2020-164. 
 
Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). 
We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of the public 
could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See 
OML 2015-35. When it is anticipated that a particular set of meeting minutes will be discussed at 
a meeting, the notice should identify the specific meeting minutes to be discussed. See OML 
2021-57 (finding the notice topic “Review/approval of minutes from last meeting,” provided the 
public with sufficient information where it identified the specific minutes that the Council 
anticipated approving during the meeting”); OML 2019-21. A public body may discuss a topic 
not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours in advance of 
the meeting. See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-87. Nevertheless, we strongly encourage public 
bodies to postpone discussion of topics that were not listed on the meeting notice until the topic 
may be included on a meeting notice, unless the circumstances demand immediate action by the 
public body. See OML 2013-197. 
 
The primary concern of the first complaint appears to be that the Board relies on 
administrative staff to create its meeting notices “without the participation of the chair,” and that 
the list of topics appearing on the notice for the June 22 meeting “was reasonably anticipated . . . 
by Building Department staff and not by the chair.” (emphasis in original). We have consistently 
stated that the chair of a public body may delegate the responsibility of creating meeting notices. 
See OML 2012-32; OML 2014-38; OML 2020-80. Indeed, in such circumstances where the 
chair delegates to another person responsibility for creating the meeting notice, we look to what 
that person anticipates will be discussed 48 hours before the meeting. See OML 2020-80; OML 
2015-190. Therefore, we find that it does not violate the Open Meeting Law for the Board to rely 
on department staff to create its meeting notices. Although we do not find a violation here, we 
take this opportunity to remind the Board that to the extent the Chair, in addition to the staff 
delegated to create the meeting notice, anticipates a topic for discussion, this topic must also be 
included on the notice.   
 
Although we find the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by relying on staff to 
create its meeting notices, including the June 22 meeting notice, this is not the end of our 
analysis. The complaint specifically alleges that notice for the Board’s June 22 meeting failed to 
list the specific meeting minutes that would be discussed. Therefore, we must determine whether 
the Chair or the Administrative Assistant reasonably anticipated 48 hours prior to the June 22 
meeting that the Board would discuss the minutes for its May 25 meeting. Both the Chair and the 
Administrative Assistant have represented that they did not anticipate that the Board would 
discuss the minutes for the May 25 meeting at the June 22 meeting. After watching a video 
recording of the June 22 meeting; communicating with Counsel; and reviewing meeting notices 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
for the Board’s meetings held between January and June of 2021, the majority of which identify 
the specific meeting minutes to be discussed in either the original or amended meeting notice, we 
believe that the Board understands that when specific meeting minutes are anticipated for 
discussion, the meeting notice must identify those minutes. Based on the available evidence, we 
credit the Chair’s and the Administrative Assistant’s representations that they did not reasonably 
anticipate 48 hours prior to the June 22 meeting that the Board would discuss the May 25 
meeting minutes. See OML 2019-21.5 Had the Chair or the Administrative Assistant reasonably 
anticipated that the May 25 meeting minutes would be discussed at the June 22 meeting more 
than 48 hours prior to the June 22 meeting, the generic notice topic “Review/Accept Minutes” 
would not have been sufficient to comply with the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2020-2, n. 3; 
OML 2019-92.  
 
Finally, the second complaint alleges that the Board failed to respond to the first 
complaint. A public body must respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business 
days unless it secures an extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Here, the Board does not dispute that, due to an apparent 
miscommunication between the Chair and legal counsel, it failed to respond to the first 
complaint within 14 business days as required when it responded to the July 19 complaint by 
letter dated September 17. Therefore, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to timely respond to the first complaint.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged in the first Open Meeting Law complaint but did violate the Law by failing to 
timely respond to the first Open Meeting Law complaint. We order immediate and future 
compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
 
 
 
 
5 In later correspondence the Complainant refers to OML 2021-121 in support of his position. The facts of OML 
2021-121 are distinguishable from the facts here. In OML 2021-121 the chair had not delegated responsibility for 
creating meeting notices; the notices in general included only the same set of generic topics month after month; and 
the chair explained that he, in general, did not anticipate any topics for discussion. Essentially, in OML 2021 -121, 
no person made any effort to anticipate what the public body would discuss; we found this to be insufficient to 
comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law and explained that “the requirement in the Open Meeting 
Law that meeting notices include a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting necessarily requires the Chair, or any individual delegated to create the meeting notice, to make some 
reasonable effort to ascertain what the Board will discuss at a meeting and include sufficient detail about those 
topics on the notice for the meeting.” (emphasis in original and added).  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Wayland Zoning Board of Appeals (via email:  
George Harris (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
