===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 11, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 137 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Lisa Fiske Heger 
Chair, Braintree School Committee 
schoolcommittee@braintreeschools.org  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Chair Fiske-Heger: 
 
This office received a complaint from Theresa Szczepanski on February 23, 2023, 
alleging that the Braintree School Committee’s (the “Committee”) Advisory Task Force on 
District Inefficiencies and Inequities (the “Task Force”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on January 20, 2023,
1 
and, after a request from our office for a response, the Committee responded on behalf of the 
Task Force by letter dated February 17, 2023. We understand the complaint to allege that the 
Task Force failed to post notice of its meetings and failed to create and maintain meeting 
minutes. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Committee’s response, the request for further review, PowerPoint presentations for five meetings 
held by the Task Force, and websites for the Town of Braintree and the Committee. 
 
To begin, we must address the timeliness of the complaint. To be considered timely, an 
Open Meeting Law complaint must be filed with the public body alleged to have violated the 
Law within 30 days of the alleged violation, or, if the alleged violation could not reasonably have 
been known at the time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have 
been discovered. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4). Here, the complaint alleges that the 
Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law when, among other things, it held a meeting on 
 
1 The complaint is dated January 20, 2022. We understand this to be a typo.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
December 12, 2022, for which proper notice was not posted.2 The Complainant asserts that she 
learned of the December 12, 2022, meeting on January 4, 2023, when a message mentioning the 
December 12 meeting was sent to school families via an application called Parent Square. 
Thereafter, the Complainant filed the present complaint with the Committee on January 20, 
2023.  
 
In its response, the Committee “acknowledges that the agendas for the five meetings of 
the task force were not properly posted.” Additionally, the Committee does not challenge the 
Complainant’s assertion that she only learned of the December 12, 2022, meeting via the January 
4, 2023, Parent Square message. Nonetheless, the Committee asserts that the complaint is 
untimely because “information regarding the activities of the Task Force [was] distributed via 
the same Parent Square messaging system on October 21, 2022, which is earlier than the 30-day 
limit for such a complaint to be filed.” We find this argument unavailing and the complaint to be 
timely.  
 
 Next, we consider whether the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
post notice for its December 12, 2022, meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept 
in an emergency, in addition to any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and 
legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). For meetings of local public bodies, “notice shall be filed 
with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours 
in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located,” unless the municipality 
has adopted its website as its official notice posting location. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 
29.03(2).  
 
The Committee has not provided any information showing that the Task Force posted any 
notice for its December 12 meeting. Instead, as explained above, the Committee asserts that 
“information regarding the activities of the Task Force [was] distributed via . . . Parent Square . . 
.” and “acknowledges that the agendas for the five meetings of the task force were not properly 
posted.” Additionally, a review of the Committee’s website and the Town’s website
3 did not 
reveal any notice for the Task Force’s December 12 meeting. Therefore, based on the 
information before us, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
post notice for its meeting held on December 12, 2022.  
  
Next, the complaint alleges that the Task Force failed to create and maintain minutes of 
its meetings. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. 
 
2 The complaint also more generally alleges that the Task Force failed to comply with the Open Meeting Law, but 
the complaint form specifically identifies December 12, 2022, as the alleged violation date.  
3 Although the Town of Braintree’s website is not its official notice posting location, the Town does post notices to 
its website, including notices for School Committee meetings. Likewise, the Committee posts notices of its meetings 
and two subcommittees’ meetings on its website. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
See OML 2013-64; OML 2017-1047.4 By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes 
should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the 
meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 
2012-106. Although minutes must include a summary of the discussion on each topic, a 
transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion 
presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2019-136; 2020-105.  
 
The Committee asserts that the Task Force complied with the requirement to create and 
maintain meeting minutes, explaining that “[a]ttendance was taken at each meeting and all 
meeting presentations, which the district considers minutes, were distributed to the public after 
the meetings were held.” After review of the PowerPoint presentations for Task Force meetings 
held on June 6, September 20, October 19, November 9, and December 12, 2022, we find that 
none of the presentations contain the required information necessary to serve as minutes under 
the Open Meeting Law. Although the presentations contain information about topics anticipated 
for discussion at the meetings, they do not record any of the discussions that occurred. 
Additionally, they do not record any decisions made or votes or actions taken; the date, time, and 
place of the meeting; a list the members present or absent; or a list of documents or exhibits used 
at the meetings, if any. Therefore, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to create and maintain meeting minutes.   
 
Finally, we must determine whether the Task Force’s violations were, as the Complainant 
urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a 
public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 
29.02. An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the Open Meeting Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Law. Id. We have not previously warned the Task Force or the School 
Committee against the violations found here, nor do we find other evidence that would support a 
finding of an intentional violation. Therefore, we decline to find that the violations were 
intentional. 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Task Force violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to post notice for its December 12, 2022, meeting and by failing to create and maintain 
minutes for its meetings held on June 6, September 20, October 19, November 9, and December 
12, 2022. We understand that the Task Force’s work is complete and that it has effectively 
disbanded. Because it appears that the Task Force was a subcommittee of the Committee
5 and at 
least two members of the Committee served on the Task Force, we order the Committee to create 
and approve accurate minutes for the meetings listed above through whatever means are 
available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. See OML 2020-19 
(“When a subcommittee has been disbanded, the parent public body should approve the 
subcommittee’s meeting minutes.”); OML 2017-34. Within 60 days of receipt of this letter, the 
Committee shall certify to our office that it has complied with this order. If it is not possible to 
create minutes for the meetings listed above, despite best efforts, then the Committee must, 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The Open Meeting Law explains that “a subcommittee shall include any multiple -member body created to advise 
or make recommendations to a public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
within 60 days of receipt of this letter, explain to this office in writing what efforts were made to 
create the minutes.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Task Force, 
the Committee, or our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Braintree School Committee (via email: schoolcommittee@braintreeschools.org)  
James Casey, Braintree Town Clerk (via email: jmcasey@braintreema.gov) 
Theresa Szczepanski (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
