===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
February 9, 2020 
 
       OML 2021 – 12 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Steve Bartha  
Danvers Town Manager 
1 Sylvan Street 
Danvers, MA 01923 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Bartha: 
This Office received a complaint from Keith Lucy on October 9, 2020, alleging that the 
Danvers Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on September 16, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated September 30.1 In his complaint, Mr. Lucy alleges that a member of the 
Board deliberated via email outside of a posted meeting.2 
Following our review, we find that a member of the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed 
numerous Board emails submitted by Mr. Lucy, which he received in response to a public 
records request. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board is a five-member public body, thus three 
members constitute a quorum.3 On August 25, the Danvers Town Manager4 released a public 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that Board members use personal email addresses to conduct Board business. We note 
that, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline 
to review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. 
4 We refer to you in the third person for the remainder of this letter for clarity.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
statement explaining his decision to prohibit Danvers fire department vehicles from displaying 
“thin blue line” flags. In his statement, the Town Manager explained his reasoning: 
The thin blue line flag means different things to different people, and it has long 
been an important symbol of support and solidarity for members of public safety 
departments and their families.  
Unfortunately, the symbol has also become a form of political speech in today’s 
social landscape that has the power to make marginalized members of our 
community feel unwelcome and unsafe, so this week I ordered them to be 
removed from Danvers fire apparatus. 
I reached this decision in consultation with the Chair of the Board of Selectmen 
and after notifying both the Police Chief and Fire Chief. 
On the same day the statement was made public, the Town Manager began to receive physically 
threatening correspondence from the public. These graphic threats were shared with the members 
of the Board.  
On August 26, Board Member David Mills sent four individual but identical emails, one 
to each of his fellow Board members, regarding the flag issue. At that time, no meeting of the 
Board was scheduled on the matter. The emails read:  
I called [the Town Manager] this morning to tell him that I believe he is doing a 
great job for the town, and that I support him every single day. I believe that he is 
helped when he receives moral support from his board members. I suspect that 
this current flag issue is really eating at him. It certainly is unsettling to me.  
So, let’s all stick together. It is a great town, we will come through it, and I 
especially think [sic] our chairperson for investing so much time and attention. 
Thank you, Dan.  
None of the recipients replied to the email. 
On August 27, Town officials learned that dueling public rallies regarding the Town 
Manager’s decision were planned for September 3 at 5:00 PM in front of Town Hall. In order to 
respond to the public controversy, the Board scheduled a public meeting for September 2. At the 
meeting, the Chair read opening remarks regarding the Town Manager’s recent decision to have 
the “thin blue line” flags removed from town vehicles and the Board heard from various 
members of the public regarding the issue. Near the end of the meeting, the Board voted 4-1 to 
affirm the authority and decision of the Town Manager to manage all town properties under the 
Town Manager Act, and to support his request for the removal of a political symbol from town 
property. The meeting lasted more than two hours.5  
 
5 Although not alleged in the complaint, we note our concern about the lack of detail in the Board’s minutes from 
the September 2 meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes 
of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a 
summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
DISCUSSION 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and 
open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with 
respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Law defines 
“deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic 
mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; 
provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. The Open Meeting Law’s definition of 
“deliberation” is broad and includes nearly any communication about a matter within the public 
body’s jurisdiction; “deliberation” is not limited to decision-making or opinion communications.  
See OML 2019-151. 
 A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on matters within 
the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, even if no 
other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73.6 For 
the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a 
public body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A public body may not engage in a serial communication 
whereby a quorum communicates in a non-contemporaneous manner outside of a meeting, on a 
particular subject matter within the public body’s jurisdiction. See McCrea v. Flaherty, 71 Mass. 
App. Ct. 637 (2008); OML 2011-33.  
 Here, we find that Member Mills’s email related to a matter within the Board’s 
jurisdiction and reached more than a quorum of the Board. Although Member Mills emailed his 
fellow Board members individually rather than collectively, because he communicated the same 
content to all of the other members of the Board, his opinion reached more than a quorum.7 The 
Board does not dispute that Member Mills communicated with more than a quorum of the Board 
outside of a public meeting, but asserts that Member Mills’s emails to his fellow Board members 
did not constitute deliberation because they were not on the same topic as the one discussed by 
the Board at its September 2 meeting. The Board argues that Member Mills’s email expressed 
moral support for the Town Manager and his family whereas, at its September 2 meeting, the 
 
made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the accuracy 
requirement. See OML 2017-104; OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the minutes should 
contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the 
minutes and have a clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a 
transcript of the discussions is not required, and the minutes need not include every remark or opinion presented, 
minutes must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-18; OML 2012-29.  
6 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
7 The Board asserts that “[a]t the time of the communication, [Member] Mills’s only concern was the well-being of 
the [Town Manager], not to affect any potential or unknown future vote of the Board.” Individual public officials, 
such as the Town Manager, who are not members of a public body are not subject to the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2017-150; OML 2012-28. Therefore, the Open Meeting Law would not restrict Member Mills’s ability to 
reach out to the Town Manager to express his support, as Member Mills also did. We pass no judgment on Member 
Mills’s intent or reasons for seeking to offer moral support to the Town Manager. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Board discussed the legal authority of the Town Manager to manage town owned property. We 
find the Board’s argument unavailing.  
 For purposes of resolving whether Member Mills’s emails constituted deliberation under 
the Open Meeting Law, the question is whether the communication concerned a matter within 
the jurisdiction of the Board, not whether the communication concerned a topic that the Board 
actually discussed at a later meeting. See OML 2019-119 (matter was within board’s jurisdiction, 
though it had not yet come before the board). Member Mills’s email contemplated the possibility 
that the Board would express “moral support” for the Town Manager. Member Mills’s email 
clearly informs his fellow members that he would support such a statement. As the Town’s 
executive authority, a Select Board has broad jurisdiction over matters of policy in a town. See 
OML 2016-119; OML 2011-16. The Board clearly possessed the authority to issue a statement 
of support for the Town Manager, as contemplated by Member Mills’s email. Therefore, we find 
that Member Mills’s emails constituted an improper deliberation on a matter within the Board’s 
jurisdiction outside of a posted meeting. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that Member Mills violated the Open Meeting Law 
by impermissibly deliberating via email. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar 
violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law. As 
the Board discussed the substance of the emails at its next meeting, we order no further relief. 
We also note that the Board has voluntarily committed its members to attend Open Meeting Law 
training offered by our Office, which we strongly encourage. 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Keith Lucy (via e-mail:  
 Danvers Select Board c/o Chair Daniel Bennett (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 