===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 41 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Greg Dumas, Chair 
Justin Enright, Conservation Agent 
Gardner Conservation Commission 
jenright@gardner-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Chair Dumas and Mr. Enright: 
This office received a complaint from Paul DeMeo on July 21, 2024, alleging that the 
Gardner Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on or about June 
27.1  The Commission did not respond to the complaint.2  The complaint alleges that the 
Commission posted an insufficient notice for its June 24 meeting, and in particular that the 
notice topic “827 Green St Proposal” was insufficiently specific. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint and the 
complainant’s request for review of the complaint.  We also reviewed the notice and video of 
the Commission’s June 24 meeting.
3  
 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2024. 
2 We remind the Commission that the Open Meeting Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law 
Regulations require that, within 14 business days after receiving a complaint, a public body  must meet to review 
the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23; 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall 
simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any 
remedial action taken.  940 CMR 29.05(5).  The failure to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint is itself a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2024-24; OML 2023-34. 
3 A video of the June 24 meeting is available online at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WHV8GYrJiu8; the 
relevant portion of the meeting begins at 39:00.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Commission posted notice of a meeting to take 
place on June 24.  Under the heading “New Business” the notice included the topic “827 
Green St Proposal.”  Unlike other topics on the meeting notice that included a property 
address along with additional description of the nature of the matter to be discussed, the “827 
Green St Proposal” topic did not include any additional information. 
 
 The Commission convened the June 24 meeting as scheduled.  Following discussion 
of other business, Chair Greg Dumas stated that the 827 Green Street matter was placed on 
the agenda to notify the Commission that discussions had begun at the City Council regarding 
a proposed horse track, with additional meetings planned, although no application was yet 
before the Commission.  Chair Dumas remarked that there were conditions at the site that the 
Commission had previously discussed with the property owner and that the property owner 
was working to remedy.  A Board member questioned the status of a prior Order of 
Conditions under the Wetlands Protection Act regarding the property, and Conservation 
Agent Justin Enright responded that a 2021 Order of Conditions had recently expired and that 
he was still working with the property owner to resolve the matter.  Chair Dumas stated that 
there would be no proceedings regarding the property nor could the property be sold until the 
Order of Conditions was closed.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
berations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, and include the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics shall have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  A public body 
need not list each and every detail about a topic, nor anticipate on the notice the course of 
deliberation or the outcome of a discussion. See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-
134.4  However, notice topics must be described with sufficient specificity to reasonably 
advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting so that the public can make an 
informed decision about whether to attend the meeting in order to observe an anticipated 
discussion.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22; OML 2015-74. 
 
The complaint alleges that the notice for the Commission’s June 24 meeting was 
insufficiently specific with respect to the topic “827 Green St Proposal.”  We agree.  Although 
the Commission’s discussion regarding the topic was brief and no active application was yet 
before the Commission, the notice nonetheless should have included some indication of the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
nature of the matter in addition to the address.  See, e.g., OML 2024-43 (finding a meeting 
notice insufficiently specific when it listed three addresses, each followed by “Public 
Hearing,” without any indication of the nature of the matters); OML 2023-182 (finding a 
planning board’s meeting notice insufficiently specific when it listed a property address but 
“failed to include any detail as to the specific type of plan or permit under consideration with 
respect to this property”).  By failing to include any information other than a property address, 
we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law.  We order the Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution that a finding of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence 
of intent to violate the Law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Paul DeMeo (via email: ) 
Gardner City Clerk (via email: tsiriphan@gardner-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
