===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 22, 2015 
OML 2015-51 
Jeffrey Bernstein, Esq. 
BCK Law P.C. 
One Gateway Center, Suite 809 
Newton, MA 02458 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Bernstein: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Eric Bibler, dated February 
15, 2015, alleging that the Governing Board of the Cape Light Compact ("CLC") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that the CLC 
failed to disclose a topic for discussion during its November 12, 2014 executive session meeting 
and that the CLC entered into that executive session for an improper purpose. The complaint 
was originally filed with the CLC on December 13, 2014. The CLC responded by letter dated 
January 16, 2015, following an extension of time granted by this office. 
Following our review, we find that the CLC did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the CLC, the CLC's response, 
and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the notice, open session 
minutes, and unredacted executive session minutes of the CLC's November 12, 2014 meeting, in 
camera. Finally, we reviewed a letter from CLC's counsel, dated March 16, 2015. 1 
FACTS 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
The Cape Light Compact was formed in 1997 through an inter-governmental agreement, 
pursuant to G.L. c. 164, §134; G.L. c. 25A, § 6; and G.L. c. 40, § 4A. The CLC is a 23-member 
body, consisting of Barnstable County, Dukes County, and all of the 21 municipalities located 
within these counties on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard. The purposes of the CLC include 
aggregating consumers as part of the competitive market for electricity; negotiating the best 
terms and conditions for electricity supply; and supporting environmental protection, energy 
efficiency, and renewable energy development. The CLC is funded through ratepayer funds, 
federal and state grants, county general funds, and administrative charges levied on electricity 
sold through the CLC's aggregated power supply contract with its private competitive electric 
supplier. The CLC is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
1 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
During the CLC's November 12, 2014 meeting, the CLC stated that it was entering into 
executive session pursuant to; 
M.G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(10): Power Supply Procurement Strategy Discussion 
(confidential and competitively sensitive information; 2) MG.L. c. 30A, Section 21 (a)(3) 
and Section 21(a)(10): DPU 14-69 (discussion of litigation strategy and related power 
supply issues); and 3) M.G.L. 30A, Section 21(a)(3) and (10) for the purpose of 
approving past Compact Executive Session Minutes and Compact Executive Committee 
Executive Session Minutes. 
Because the minutes of this executive session have not been publicly released, we do not 
recount their content in detail here. However, we note that the CLC discussed a contract/pricing 
matter, the amount of the operational adder, and litigation with the Department of Public 
Utilities. The discussions encompassed particular strategy and price points that, if revealed 
publicly at the time, the CLC asserts would have put the CLC at a competitive disadvantage. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Before entering into executive session, the chair must state 
the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
Among the ten enumerated purposes for executive session is a purpose permitting a public body, 
"[to] discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may 
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair 
so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). A public body may use this purpose only to discuss 
litigation that is pending or clearly or imminently threatened. See Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston. 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983). 
Another purpose for executive session permits a public body; 
To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information provided in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as an 
energy supplier under a license granted by the department of public utilities pursuant to 
section IF of chapter 164, in the course of activities conducted as a municipal aggregator 
under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities conducted by a 
cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to section 136 of said 
chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal aggregator or cooperative 
determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in 
relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and energy. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(10) ("Purpose 10"). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
1. The CLC Identified its Executive Session Topics with Sufficient Specificity. 
During the CLC's November 12, 2014 meeting, the Chair announced that the CLC would 
enter executive session for the following purpose: 
M.G.L. c. 30A, Section 21(a)(10): Power Supply Procurement Strategy Discussion 
(confidential and competitively sensitive information; 2) MG.L. c. 30A, Section 21 (a)(3) 
and Section 21(a)(10): DPU 14-69 (discussion of litigation strategy and related power 
supply issues); and 3) M.G.L. 30A, Section 21(a)(3) and (10) for the purpose of 
approving past Compact Executive Session Minutes and Compact Executive Committee 
Executive Session Minutes. 
This statement provided the public with a brief description of the 3 executive session 
topics: Power Supply Procurement Strategy Discussion, DPU 14-69 (discussion of litigation 
strategy and related power supply issues), and approval of past CLC Executive Session Minutes 
and Compact Executive Committee Executive Session Minutes. This level of detail allowed the 
public to understand what subjects were going to be discussed so that any person seeking 
information about a subject would know that the subject was discussed during this executive 
session. For example, a member of the public interested in the power supply procurement 
strategy would be able to request the executive session minutes because the CLC made it clear 
that the subject was discussed during the executive session. This is what the law requires. We 
therefore find that this level of detail was sufficient to inform the public of the subjects of the 
executive session discussion, as required by G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
2. The CLC Properly Invoked Purpose 10 to Meet in Executive Session to Protect Trade 
Secrets and Other Confidential and Competitively-Sensitive Information. 
Executive Session Purpose 10 applies to a limited number of public bodies that act as a 
"municipal aggregator under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities 
conducted by a cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to section 136 
of said chapter 164." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(10). The CLC is a municipal aggregator under G.L. 
c. 164, § 134. Purpose 10 allows such public bodies to "discuss trade secrets or confidential, 
competitively-sensitive or other proprietary information provided in the course of activities 
conducted by a governmental body as an energy supplier ...when such governmental body, 
municipal aggregator or cooperative determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its 
ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric 
power and energy." Id. The law gives the public body invoking Purpose 10 discretion to 
determine when disclosure of trade secrets or competitively-sensitive information will adversely 
affect its ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling, or distributing 
electric power and energy. Id. 
The CLC considers the following types of information to fall under the cloak of 
confidentiality provided by Purpose 10: power supply pricing; the identity of power suppliers; 
the methods used to evaluate power supply price offers; the evaluation of bidders' and other 
third-party developers' prices, terms, and conditions; energy forecasting models; internal 
3 
===PAGE 4===
financing methods and pro for mas: and forecasts of prices for energy, capacity, renewable 
energy certificates and ancillary products. While the burden remains on the CLC to justify the 
need for confidentiality in the case of each and every executive session, the law provides these 
types of public bodies wide latitude to determine what information may be discussed outside of 
the public's view, See OML 2012-81.' After reviewing the CLCs November 12,2014 
executive session minutes, in camera, we are satisfied that the discussion met the requirements 
for protection from public disclosure under Purpose 10. The discussions encompassed particular 
strategy and price points that, if revealed publicly at the time, the CLC asserts would have put 
the CLC at a competitive disadvantage. Therefore, we find that the CLC did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law by invoking Purpose 10 as the basis for its November 12, 2014 executive 
session. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the CLC did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you 
have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
y^^Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Cape Light Compact 
Eric Bibler 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
1 Open Meeting Law detenninations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
4 