===PAGE 1===
 
   
 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 14, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 109 
 
Mark Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
 
By e-mail only: mreich@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert King on March 11, 2023, alleging that the 
Oxford Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on January 10, 2023, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated January 26, 2023. The 
complaint alleges that the Board’s December 12, 2022, meeting was not accessible to the public 
and that the Board convened in an executive session to discuss a prior Open Meeting Law 
complaint without granting certain rights to the complainant.
1 
 
 Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by holding 
the open session portion of its December 12 meeting in a locked building. We find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice and minutes of the Board’s December 
12 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. On December 8, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be 
held on December 12 at 5:00 P.M. at Oxford Memorial Town Hall. The meeting notice included 
three topics: call to order; an executive session “pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, sec. 21(a)(1) to discuss 
complaints or charges brought against a public officer (Board of Selectmen), – Open Meeting 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
2 
 
Law Complaint – Robert King (November 23, 2022)”; and adjournment. The doors to Town Hall 
lock automatically shortly after 5:00 P.M. and when the complainant arrived for the meeting at 
5:10 P.M. the doors to Town Hall were locked. The complainant texted and called another 
member of the Board and was able to gain access to the meeting. According to security camera 
footage, no other individuals attempted to attend the meeting during the time that the door was 
locked. 
 
After the complainant was let into the building by a member of the Board, the meeting 
was convened in open session. Prior to the start of the executive session, the complainant 
asserted that as the complainant of the Open Meeting Law complaint to be discussed in executive 
session, he had the right to insist that the meeting be held in open session, or in the alternative, 
that he must be allowed to create an audio recording of the executive session. The Board rejected 
his assertions and voted to enter executive session to discuss the Open Meeting Law complaint.  
The Open Meeting Law complaint that the Board discussed during its December 10 meeting had 
been filed by the complainant and alleged that the Town Manager and members of the Board 
deliberated outside of an open meeting.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
delibe
rations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. In order for a meeting to be truly “open to the public,” the 
meeting venue must be accessible to the public for the duration of the open portion of the 
meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2023-99; OML 2017-83.
2 Here, although most of the 
meeting took place in executive session, the public nonetheless had a right to attend the brief 
open session portion of the meeting to witness the procedural steps prior to convening in 
executive session, including the Chair’s announcement of the purpose for the executive session 
and the Board’s roll call vote. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b) (1)-(3); OML 2022-26; OML 2013-195.  
By holding this open session portion of the meeting in a locked building the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law. See OML 2023-99; OML 2014-118; OML 2012-46. We acknowledge the 
Board’s representation that it reviewed security camera footage and found that no individuals 
were denied access to the meeting, and we credit the Board for its commitment to working with 
Town Hall staff to ensure that the building will remain unlocked as required in the future. 
 
Next, th
e complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to 
hold the meeting in open session upon the complainant’s request, since Mr. King was the 
individual who filed the complaint being discussed. A public body may enter executive session 
for one or more of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). Among the ten enumerated 
purposes for executive session is Purpose 1, which allows a public body to enter executive 
session to “discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, a 
public officer, employee, staff member or individual.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). When meeting in 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
3 
 
executive session under Purpose 1, the individual who is the subject of the discussion may 
request that the session be open and if an executive session is held, the individual must also be 
afforded the right to be present during deliberations that involve that individual, the right to 
speak on his or her own behalf, the right to have counsel present to advise but not participate, 
and the right to have an independent record of the meeting made at the individual's own expense. 
Id. Public bodies may meet in executive session under Purpose 1 to review Open Meeting Law 
complaints against the body, since an Open Meeting Law complaint is by its nature a complaint 
“brought against[] a public officer,” namely, the members of the public body. See OML 2021-
194; OML 2021-21; OML 2019-170; OML 2013-82; OML 2012-119. 
 
Here, Mr. King’s assertion that—as the complainant—he
  had the right to choose to hold 
the meeting in open session or to record the executive session misunderstands the law. When 
meeting in executive session to discuss an Open Meeting Law complaint, it is the public body or 
the specific public body member(s) named in the complaint, and not the complainant, who is the 
subject of the complaint and has the rights set forth under Purpose 1.  See OML 2021-200; OML 
2019-50.  It is unclear whether Mr. King alternatively asserts that as a member of the Board, he 
was both the complainant as well as the subject of his own complaint and therefore entitled to 
insist on an open session. We reject such an assertion. We have explained that a public body may 
discuss a complaint about the public body in executive session if a majority of the public body 
has voted to do so. See OML 2013-82.  Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing Mr. King’s prior Open Meeting Law complaint in executive session, over his 
objection. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding the open session portion of its December 12 meeting in a locked building. We find that 
the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged. We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, and caution the Board that a 
similar, future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. Because the 
Board demonstrated that no members of the public attempted to attend the meeting that was held 
in the locked building, we order no further remedial action. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
   
 
4 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
   
   
Carrie Benedon  
Assistant Attorney General  
Division of Open Government  
 
 
Assisted by Bethany Salah, Legal Intern 
 
cc:
 Robert King – By email only:  
 Oxford Town  Clerk – By email only: mjenkins@oxfordma.us 
 
 
 
 
   
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.  
