===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
September 15, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 120 
 
 
Christopher J. Kenney, Esq. 
Clifford & Kenney, LLP 
31 Schoosett Street 
Pembroke, MA 02359 
 
By email only: chris@cliffordkenneylaw.com  
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kenney: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mary Parsons on March 5, 2026, alleging that the 
Rockland Sewer Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Commission on January 20, 2026, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter dated February 9, 2026.  The complaint 
alleges that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by posting notice of a meeting held 
on January 15, 2026, that failed to include “information for the public to attend via Zoom.”   
 
 Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the way alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Commission’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review, and the notice, minutes and video recording of the Commission meeting held on January 
15, 2026.
1   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On January 13, 2026, at 12:18 P.M., the Commission 
posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 15, 2026, at 3:00 P.M.  The notice included one 
main topic, “Superintendent Interview Planning Discussion to Include Approval of Interview 
 
1 A video recording of the January 15, 2026, Commission meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_44nObxHu2U. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Questions/Scenarios.”  The notice header included a box that listed the Board or Committee, 
“Date and Time of Meeting,” and “Meeting Location.”  For “Meeting Location,” the notice listed 
Zoom but did not include any other information on how to access the meeting remotely, such as 
a link, phone number, meeting ID, or password.  However, just below the box, the notice 
included the following statement “This meeting is being recorded live for broadcast on 
www.youtube.com/wrpsrockland.”   
 
The January 15, 2026, meeting was held as planned and a quorum of members 
participated remotely via Zoom.  At the beginning of the meeting, Commission Chair Michael 
Mullen announced that the meeting was being “recorded live for broadcast” on WRPS
2 and 
YouTube.  During the meeting, which lasted for approximately 11 minutes, the Commission 
discussed an upcoming interview for the position of Sewer Department Superintendent.  To
 help 
in assessing the candidate’s experience and ability to understand the needs of the Sewer 
Department, the Commission discussed providing the candidate with an overview of the current 
needs and condition of the Department.  Interim Superintendent David Taylor suggested certain 
updates be made regarding the needs and condition of the Department.  Commission member 
Matthew Ryan then made a motion, which was seconded by Chair Mullin, “to incorporate David 
Taylor’s updates and amendments to the interview questions/scenarios document to be 
forwarded to the candidate immediately,” and the Commission unanimously voted by roll call. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public 
body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The notice must be printed in a 
legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of the meeting, as 
well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed.  Id.   
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”).  Generally, access to a 
meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present as well as to see and hear what is 
being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; OML 2018-75; OML 
2016-54.3  To satisfy the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that meetings be open and accessible 
to the public, a meeting notice must inform the public of the “place” where it can access the 
meeting.  See OML 2026-38; OML 2021-28.  Therefore, if access to the meeting will be 
provided via adequate, alternative remote means, then clear instructions for how the public may 
access the meeting must be included in the notice.  See OML 2020-102; OML Declination 12-
20-21 (Everett Board of Appeals). 
 
 
2 WRPS is the Town of Rockland’s local access cable television station, see https://www.wrpsrockland.com/. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Commission posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
January 15, 2026, without providing Zoom access information.  When all public body members 
participate in a meeting remotely or when a public body meets in person without providing the 
public physical access to the meeting location, the public body must then provide the public with 
adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the proceedings in real time.  
See OML 2020-111; OML 2020-100; Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2025, An Act Extending Certain 
COVID-19 Measures Adopted During the State of Emergency.  To satisfy the requirement in the 
Open Meeting Law that a meeting notice include the “place” of the meeting, the meeting notice 
must identify the specific meeting location or, if the public will access the meeting remotely, the 
meeting notice must include clear instructions for accessing the meeting remotely.  See OML 
2021-17; OML 2020-102.  
 
 Here, all Commission members participated remotely in the January 15, 2026, meeting.  
Although the notice included information that the January 15, 2026, meeting was being 
“recorded live for broadcast” and included the website address for such broadcast, the notice also 
identified the “meeting location” as Zoom without providing any additional information on how 
to access the meeting remotely.  That meetings of public bodies be accessible to the public is 
fundamental to the Open Meeting Law; therefore, it is imperative that a meeting notice state 
clearly how the public may access the meeting.  See OML 2021-104.  Although a close call, we 
find here that the meeting notice did not comply with the Open Meeting Law because the notice 
identified different locations for the meeting.  Compare OML 2021-63 (finding notice 
insufficient where calendar entries identified location of meetings as the Council Chambers, 
while the notice stated that meetings would be physically closed to the public and that access 
would instead be provided via YouTube) with OML 2024-46 (finding notice sufficient where it 
indicated the location of the meeting “for the viewing public” to be Facebook and included the 
website address).  As such, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting a notice that did not clearly inform the public of how it could access the January 15, 
2026, meeting.  See OML 2021-17 (noting that a meeting notice stating that the meeting would 
be held at a physical location and could be viewed on cable access, without making clear that the 
public was required to access the meeting remotely only, did not satisfy the Law’s requirement to 
include the “place” of the meeting). 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, w e find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it posted notice of the January 15, 2026, meeting that was not sufficiently specific. 
We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law’s 
requirements and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.   
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mary Parsons –  
Rockland Sewer Commission c/o Superintendent Hillary Waite – By email only: 
hwaite@rockland-ma.gov  
Rockland Town Clerk Christine Campanile – By email only: ccampanile@rockland-
ma.gov  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
