===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 23, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 136 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair James Mercer 
Great Barrington Housing Authority  
Board of Commissioners 
80 Maple Avenue, Suite 1 
Great Barrington, Massachusetts 01230 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Mercer: 
This office received four complaints from Madonna Meagher on April 14, May 13, June 
1, and August 3, 2020, alleging that the Great Barrington Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The 
complaints were originally filed with the Board on January 31, April 3, April 13 and April 17. 2 
The Board discussed three of the complaints during a May 5 meeting and discussed the fourth 
complaint at a June 17 meeting. The Board did not respond in writing to the complainant.3 In 
response to an inquiry from our office as to the status of the Board’s response, the Board sent a 
copy of its May 5 meeting minutes. In her complaints, Ms. Meagher alleges that (1) the Board 
failed to timely approving minutes, and (2) a particular member of the Board deliberated outside 
of a noticed meeting on multiple occasions.  
 
1 Ms. Meagher is the Assistant to the Executive Director of the Great Barrington Housing Authority.  
2 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
3 We remind the Board of its obligations to respond to Open Meeting Law complaints in the following manner. 
Within 14 business days of receiving the complaint, unless an extension has been granted by the Attorney General’s 
Division of Open Government, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken. The 
public body shall simultaneously notify the Attorney General that it has sent such materials to the complainant and 
shall provide the Attorney General with a copy of the complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial 
action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board, and Board member Eileen Mooney, violated the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s May 5 meeting 
minutes, and the complainant’s request for further review. We also reviewed an audio recording 
of the Board’s March 26 meeting and numerous Board emails that the complainant submitted 
with the complaints.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The Board failed to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner.   
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The meeting minutes must be reviewed 
and approved in a timely manner. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Open Meeting Law itself does not 
define “timely manner.” However, the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations 
provide that “timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 
days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 
CMR 29.11 (2). Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of a meeting be approved at the 
next meeting. See OML 2019-39.4  
Here, minutes from the Board’s February 18 and March 26 meetings were not approved 
until May 5, the Board’s fourth meeting since March 26 and fifth meeting since February 18. The 
Board asserts that it was not able to approve the meeting minutes sooner due to a disagreement 
between Board members as to the content of the minutes. During an April 1 meeting, one 
member, Eileen Mooney, insisted on substantial edits to the February 18 and March 26 minutes. 
The chair suggested that Ms. Mooney share her edits with Ms. Meagher ahead of the meeting 
and that a new draft could then be discussed that a meeting. Ms. Mooney was unwilling to accept 
this proposal. We do not find that this delay constitutes “good cause” under the Open Meeting 
Law, as the Board seems to only have discussed the disagreement during an April 1 meeting and 
did not attempt to resolve the disagreement or approve the minutes during its subsequent 
meetings on April 8 or 29. See OML 2016-155 (violation found where the public body “stalled 
on approving certain minutes for months” due to disagreement over their content); OML 2015-
190 (no violation found where the public body had repeatedly made good faith efforts to approve 
minutes through multiple rounds of edits in an effort to reach a consensus among its members). 
As these minutes were approved more than 30 days or three meetings after the respective 
meetings, and we do not find that the Board had engaged in good faith efforts to approve the 
minutes within the allotted time period, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to approve its February 18 and March 26 meeting minutes in a timely manner.  
 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
2. Board member Eileen Mooney deliberated outside of a noticed meeting via email. 
However, the Board did not deliberate on a conference call after the conclusion of a 
March 26 meeting.   
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
noticed and open to the public, unless an executive session is convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c 30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as 
“an oral or written communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or 
among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, 
however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (emphasis added). Documents that are circulated for the stated 
purpose of being discussed at a future meeting may not be used to telegraph one member’s 
opinion to the other members ahead of an open meeting. See OML 2014-148. For purposes of 
the Open Meeting Law, a quorum is “a simple majority of the members of the public body.” G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18. 
 Here, it is clear from the emails we reviewed that Board member Ms. Mooney has a 
practice of emailing all Board members on matters within the Board’s jurisdiction. For example, 
in a series of January 7 emails copying all Board members, Ms. Mooney questioned Ms. 
Meagher about fees paid by the Board to an accounting firm, asserting that a monthly charge 
should have been $400, not $300. In a January 9 email, again copying the entire Board, Ms. 
Mooney sent the Board’s executive director many questions regarding the Board’s operational 
statements and budget, opining that the Board members were not receiving necessary 
information from the chair or from the executive director. In an April 14 email to the entire 
Board, Ms. Mooney shared her extensive suggestions regarding edits to four sets of meeting 
minutes, including substantive additions. The Board’s budget, fees paid to vendors, and the 
substance of the Board’s meeting minutes are all matters within the Board’s jurisdiction. Ms. 
Mooney’s emails containing her opinions on these matters were sent to the whole Board, thus 
reaching a quorum. A one-way communication from one public body member to a quorum on 
business within a body’s jurisdiction is deliberation, even if no other members respond. See 
OML 2019-144; OML 2015-33. When Ms. Mooney expressed her opinion on these matters to a 
quorum of the Board through email, she engaged in deliberation outside of an open meeting. 
Therefore, we find that Ms. Mooney violated the Open Meeting Law. In the emails we reviewed, 
no other Board members replied to these emails. Therefore, we find this to be an individual 
violation. 
 Ms. Meagher also alleges that Ms. Mooney continued to deliberate after the Board’s 
March 26 meeting was adjourned. On a recording of the meeting, Chair Mercer can be heard 
making a motion to adjourn the March 26 meeting, which passed. After the Chair adjourned the 
meeting, the full Board remained on the phone line after Ms. Mooney raised a question. Ms. 
Mooney asked where the February meeting minutes were, stating that they were not on the town 
website nor had they been sent to the Board. Ms. Meagher explained that the minutes were 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
posted on a bulletin board and that it would be difficult for her to mail a copy of the minutes to 
Ms. Mooney as the copy machine was not working. Ms. Meagher and Ms. Mooney discussed the 
possibility of emailing a copy of the February minutes. Chair Mercer concluded the conversation 
by asking Ms. Meagher to email a copy of the minutes as soon as possible to all Board members. 
Under the Open Meeting Law, certain administrative tasks are excluded from the definition of 
“deliberation,” “provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 
2013-5. For example, the distribution of minutes ahead of a public meeting is permissible as long 
as the minutes simply memorialize the deliberation that took place at a preceding open meeting. 
See OML 2013-127. As Chair Mercer and Ms. Mooney merely discussed the administrative 
matter of distributing the meeting minutes, without expressing any opinions on the substance of 
those minutes, we find no deliberation and no violation of the Open Meeting Law related to the 
March 26 meeting.  
3. The deliberation by email outside of a posted meeting was an intentional violation of the 
Open Meeting Law.  
 Finally, we must determine whether these violations were, as the complainant urges, 
intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public 
body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. 
An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of 
the Law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open 
Meeting Law. Id. We do not find the Board’s violation regarding the late approval of minutes to 
be intentional as we had not previously warned the Board against this type of violation, nor do 
we find other evidence that would support a finding of an intentional violation. We therefore 
decline to find the violation regarding the timely approval of minutes to be intentional. 
 On the other hand, we previously warned the Board that deliberation outside of a meeting 
violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2019-57. Ms. Mooney was aware of this 
determination, as she was the complainant and received a copy of the determination. As a Board 
member, Ms. Mooney is also responsible for certifying that she reviewed each Open Meeting 
Law determination issued to the Board by the Attorney General within the last five years in 
which the Attorney General found a violation of the Open Meeting Law. See 940 CMR 29.04. 
For these reasons, we conclude that Ms. Mooney was on notice that deliberation outside of a 
meeting via email is a violation of the Open Meeting Law. We therefore find Ms. Mooney’s 
individual violation to be intentional.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that (1) the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to approve meeting minutes in a timely manner; and (2) Board member Eileen 
Mooney deliberated outside of an open meeting via email, intentionally violating the Open 
Meeting Law. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting 
Law and caution the Board that a determination by our office of a similar violation in the future 
may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Open Meeting Law.  
  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Madonna Meagher (via e-mail: ) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
