===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
July 19, 2023 
 
OML 2023 – 111 
 
 
Shawn MacInnes 
Town Administrator 
400 Slocum Road, Room 303 
Dartmouth, MA 02747 
 
By email only: smacinnes@town.dartmouth.ma.us 
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. MacInnes: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 23, 2023, alleging that 
the Dartmouth Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about March 3, and you responded, 
on behalf of the Board, by letter dated March 23.  The complaint alleges that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law during a meeting held on February 13 by i) failing to state the purpose of 
the executive session; ii) failing to announce the name of the member who participated remotely; 
iii) failing to conduct roll call votes; and iv) failing to announce that the meeting was being 
recorded. 
 
We resolve this matter by in
 formal action, in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
after reviewing the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, the complaint filed 
with our office requesting further review, and the notice, minutes and video recording of the 
Board meeting held on February 13.
2  We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged.     
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2023. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s February 13 meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=auYFX6LfqN4.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Board admits, and we agree, that the Chair did not announce in open session the 
purpose
 for the executive session and failed to announce the name of the one member who was 
participating remotely during the February 13 meeting.  As such, we find that the Board violated 
the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b)(3) (chair of public body must announce 
in open session the purpose for the executive session, “stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called”); 940 CMR 
29.10(7)(b) (at start of meeting, “the chair shall announce the name of any member who will be 
participating remotely” and such information must be recorded in the meeting minutes).  We 
commend the Board’s commitment to ensure future compliance. 
  
Because one member of the Board participated remotely during the February 13 meeting, 
all
 votes taken during that meeting must be by roll call vote, even unanimous votes.  See 940 
CMR 29.10(7)(c); OML 2016-132; OML 2015-145.3  We note that the Board conducted a vote 
by roll call to convene in executive session but failed to conduct roll call votes for any of the 
votes taken during the open session portion of the February 13 meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(b) (public body may enter an executive session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes).  Accordingly, because the Board failed to 
conduct roll call votes during the February 13 meeting, we find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board did not make an announcement that the 
Febr
uary 13 meeting was being recorded.  The Open Meeting Law requires that “[a]fter 
notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an 
open session of a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, 
subject to reasonable requirements of the chair as to the number, placement and operation of 
equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the meeting.  At the beginning of the 
meeting, the chair shall inform other attendees of any recordings.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f).  The 
requirement that the chair inform attendees of any recording includes any recording made by 
members of the public body itself, including those made for public broadcasting or 
administrative purposes, such as assisting in the drafting of meeting minutes.  See OML 2019- 
129; OML 2016-155; OML 2013-136.  Here, the Board meeting held on February 13 was 
recorded and broadcast by Dartmouth Community Media and therefore the Chair was required to 
inform attendees that the meeting was being recorded.  See OML 2012-24.  Because the Chair 
did not make such an announcement, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For t
he reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to state the purpose of the executive session; failing to announce the name of the member 
who participated remotely; failing to conduct roll call votes; and failing to announce that the 
meeting was being recorded.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
 Dartmouth Town Clerk – By e mail only: clerk@town.dartmouth.ma.us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
