===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       June 7, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 120 
 
 
James S. Timmins 
City Solicitor 
Quincy City Hall 
1305 Hancock Street 
Quincy, MA  02169 
 
By email only: jtimmins@quincyma.gov 
  
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Attorney Timmins: 
This office received a complaint from Neil Johnsen on September 5, 2023, and a second 
complaint on January 17, 2024, alleging that the Quincy Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on or about July 26, 2023, and the second complaint was filed with the Board on 
or about December 15, 2023.  You responded, on behalf of the Board, to the first complaint by 
letter dated September 15, 2023, and to the second complaint by email dated May 17, 2024. 1  
The complaints allege that i) Board members failed to complete the Open Meeting Law 
certification form; ii) the Board does not approve meeting minutes in a timely manner; iii) the 
Board does not create sufficiently accurate meeting minutes; iv) the Board discussed an 
application prior to the start of a meeting held on July 25, 2023; v) the Board deliberated outside 
of a meeting on whether to cancel the August 8, 2023, meeting; and vi) the Board held an 
“organizational meeting” in February 2023 for which no notice was posted. 
 
 
1 It does not appear that the response to the first complaint was sent to this office, and the Board did not respond to 
the second complaint in the timeframe required by the Open Meeting Law.  We remind the Board that the Open 
Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, the public body must meet to review 
the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a 
description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description 
of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to complete Open Meeting Law certification forms, failing to approve open session meeting 
minutes in a timely manner and creating insufficient minutes of the meeting held on July 25, 
2023.  We further find that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting prior to 
the July 25, 2023, meeting, but remedied the violation once the meeting began.  Finally, we find 
that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s responses to the complaints, and 
the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In addition, we reviewed relevant 
notices and minutes of Board meetings held between January 10, 2023, and December 12, 2023, 
as well as video recordings of Board meetings held on July 25, 2023, and September 12, 2023. 2  
Finally, we spoke with you via telephone on May 13, 2024.3 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five member public body with three 
alternate members; therefore, three members of the Board constitute a quorum.  
 
 In February 2023, the Board met with City Solicitor Timmins who  advised the Board on 
the Open Meeting Law, the Public Records Law, ethics issues and zoning laws.   
 
 The Board held a meeting on July 25, 2023, that lasted for approximately six minutes.  
During the meeting, the Board reviewed only one matter, which was an application for a 
variance to remove existing decks and construct a new two-story addition at 198 Main Street.  
Prior to the start of the meeting, two Board members discussed with the applicant the location of 
closets in the basement.  After the meeting began, the Board noted that the construction plans 
showed several closets in the basement and asked that the closets and bathroom be removed, to 
which the applicant agreed.  The Board then asked if anyone present wanted to speak for or 
against the project.  The complainant was present at the meeting and spoke in favor of the project 
but questioned whether the applicant needed an additional permit for a lodging house or a license 
for a daycare.  The Board voted unanimously to grant the variance with the conditions that four 
closets and a bathroom be removed from the basement. 
 
The minutes of the July 25, 2023, meeting summarize the discussion of the variance 
application as follows: “ISLEN GARCIA for a VARIANCE to remove the existing decks on the 
rear of the home and construct a new two-story addition on the premises numbered 198 MAIN 
STREET, QUINCY Continued from the July 11th hearing date.  The Applicant presented the 
proposed revised project plans.  A motion was made by John Himmel and seconded to Grant the 
Variance, subject to conditions.” 
 
During a meeting held on September 12, 2023, the Board approved the minutes of the 
meeting held on August 22, 2023, held five public hearings on two variances and three special 
permit requests, and reviewed and discussed the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  The Board 
 
2 A video recording of the July 25, 2023, meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68qWw_UZh6I ; a video recording of the September 12, 2023, meeting is 
available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4EUCXpQv-SA . 
3 For purposes of clarity, we refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
discussed each allegation raised in the Open Meeting Law complaint and authorized City 
Solicitor Timmins to respond to the complaint. 
 
Additional facts will be presented where applicable in the Discussion section that 
follows. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Open Meeting Law Certification Form 
 
The first complaint alleges that Board members did not timely complete the Open 
Meeting Law certification form.  The Open Meeting Law requires that “within 2 weeks of 
qualification for office, all persons serving on a public body shall certify, on a form prescribed 
by the attorney general, the receipt of a copy of the open meeting law, regulations promulgated 
pursuant to section 25 and a copy of the educational materials prepared by the attorney general 
explaining the open meeting law and its application pursuant to section 19. ... The certification 
shall be evidence that the member of a public body has read and understands the requirements of 
the open meeting law and the consequences of violating it.”  See G.L. c. 30A § 20; OML 2011-
39.4  The Board acknowledges that members did not timely complete the Open Meeting Law 
certification form and therefore we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  We 
commend the Board for taking prompt remedial action in response to this complaint by 
completing and filing with the Town Clerk Open Meeting Law certification forms. 
 
Approval of Meeting Minutes 
 
The complaint further alleges that the Board failed to timely approve open session 
minutes of meetings held between January 10, 2023, and July 25, 2023.  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that “[m]inutes of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely manner.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c).  “Timely manner” means “within the next three public body meetings or 
within 30 days, whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further 
delay.”  940 CMR 29.11; see OML 2018-48.  Whenever possible, we recommend that minutes of 
a meeting be approved at the next meeting.  See OML 2018-67; OML 2017-133.  The Board 
acknowledges, and we find, that the Board did not approve minutes of the thirteen meetings held 
between January 10, 2023, and July 25, 2023, within the later of the next three meetings or 30 
days following each meeting.  See OML 2021-155.  As such, we find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law by failing to approve these minutes in a timely manner.  Because the Board 
has now approved and posted the minutes of these meetings, we order no further remedial action. 
 
Sufficiency of Meeting Minutes 
 
With respect to the concerns raised in the first complaint that meeting minutes are 
generally insufficient, we will not conduct broad audits of a public body based on generalized 
allegations.  See OML 2016-57.  Here, the complaint does not identify any specific meeting 
minutes that are incomplete but suggests that posted minutes are missing “key info.”  However, 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
we have reviewed the minutes of the Board meeting held on July 25, 2023, and find that these 
minutes are insufficient.5  The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a 
list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
The minutes of the July 25, 2023, meeting include the date, time and place of the 
meeting, as well as the members present.  However, the minutes do not include a summary of the 
discussion about the variance application, or a record of votes taken during the meeting.  Here, 
the minutes simply state that the “applicant presented the proposed revised project plans” 
without referencing the Board’s discussion with the applicant on the removal of several closets 
and a bathroom.  The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a 
statement that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the law requires that the 
minutes summarize the discussions that were held.  See OML 2019-167; OML 2018-8.  In 
addition, the minutes do not include the vote taken by the Board with respect to the application, 
instead merely stating that a motion was made and seconded to grant the variance.  The Open 
Meeting Law requires that minutes include “the decisions made and the actions taken at each 
meeting, including the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Finally, the minutes do not 
include any reference to the comments made during the meeting by the complainant who spoke 
in favor of the proposed application.  Although it is not necessary to record the comments of 
every speaker, and we acknowledge the difficulty of doing so where there are many speakers 
whose remarks may even overlap, if a particular individual speaks at some length or is the only 
one to offer an argument for or against a proposal, that person and his or her comments should be 
identified in the minutes.  See OML 2014-108; OML 2013-47; OML 2012-29.  We find that the 
minutes do not adequately capture the substance of the discussions that occurred so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have an 
understanding of what occurred, and we order the Board to revise the minutes of the July 25, 
2023, meeting.   
 
 Deliberation Outside of a Meeting 
 
Finally, both complaints allege that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted  
meeting.  Specifically, the complaints allege that the Board did not post notice of an 
“organizational meeting” held in February 2023, that a quorum of the Board discussed an 
application prior to the start of the July 25, 2023, meeting, and that a quorum of the Board 
discussed outside of a meeting whether to cancel the August 8, 2023, meeting.   
 
 
5 The second complaint alleges that the minutes of the meeting held on September 12, 2023, are insufficient.  The 
Board approved the September 12, 2023, meeting minutes on September 26, 2023.  When a public body approves 
open session minutes, any complaints regarding the sufficiency or accuracy of those minutes must be filed within 30 
days of the meeting during which they were approved.  See OML Declination 9-4-12 (Manchester-by-the-Sea 
Zoning Board of Appeals); OML Declination 5-14-12 (Sheffield Planning Board).  Because the complaint here was 
filed on December 15, 2023, more than 30 days after the date that the Board approved the September 12, 2023, 
minutes, we find this allegation to be untimely and decline to review it.  See OML Declination 10-21-20 
(Massachusetts Maritime Academy Board of Trustees); OML Declination 7-2-18 (Pembroke Planning Board); OML 
Declination 1-13-14 (Ashfield Select Board).   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened.  
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The 
law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority 
of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
According to Attorney Timmons, a quorum of Board members was present at an  
“organizational meeting” in February 2023, but contends that members attended a training that 
was exempt from the Open Meeting Law’s definition of meeting, such that the Board was not 
required to post notice or create minutes.  The Open Meeting Law’s definition of “meeting” 
excludes “attendance by a quorum of a public body at a public or private gathering, including a 
conference or training program or a media, social or other event, so long as the members do not 
deliberate.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
Attorney Timmons explained that the purpose of the February meeting was a time for 
him to speak with Board members about the Open Meeting Law, the Public Records Law, and 
ethics issues.  Attorney Timmons asserts that the Board did not discuss any matters that were 
pending or otherwise within the Board’s jurisdiction.  Absent evidence to the contrary, we find 
that the Board did not deliberate during the “organizational meeting” as any discussions that may 
have occurred did not involve the Board’s exercise of governmental business, policy, or 
administration.  See OML 2018-1; OML 2011-38.  Because there was no deliberation among 
Board members, the training fell within one of the exceptions to the definition of “meeting” for 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; OML 2023-152; OML 2015-31.  
Accordingly, the Board was not required to comply with the Law’s requirements to post notice 
or create minutes. 
 
Although we find that the Board did not deliberate outside of a properly posted meeting 
in February 2023, we take this opportunity to remind the Board that discussions regarding 
procedural or administrative matters may relate to public business within a body’s jurisdiction, 
such as where the discussion involves the organization and leadership of the public body, 
committee assignments, rules or bylaws for the body, and discussions of whether the body 
should consider or take action on specific topics at a future meeting.6  See OML 2014-108; OML 
2013-27; OML 2011-38.  
 
With respect to deliberations that may have occurred on July 25, 2023, the Board 
explains that a quorum of members had a brief discussion with the applicant about the removal 
 
6 The second complaint also alleges that the Board did not elect a chair or clerk in violation of G.L. c. 40A, § 12.  
The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25, and the Open Meeting Law does not specifically require that a public body appoint a member as chair.  
Therefore, even if true, this allegation would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law and we decline to 
review it.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners).   
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
of closets prior to the start of the July 25, 2023, meeting.  However, the Board contends that such 
discussion was then repeated when the Board officially opened the meeting and discussed the 
variance application.  We find that the Board deliberated outside of a meeting when a quorum of 
members discussed the application with the applicant prior to the start of the July 25, 2023, 
meeting.  We note, after reviewing a video recording of the July 25, 2023, meeting, that the 
Board discussed the removal of closets and a bathroom with the applicant after the meeting was 
convened.  As such, we find that the Board remedied the violation by repeating the discussion 
once the meeting officially began and therefore, we order no further remedial action.  See OML 
2015-145. 
 
Finally, with respect to the allegation that the Board discussed cancelling an August 8, 
2023, meeting, we note that the Board did not post notice of a meeting to be held on August 8, 
2023.  Rather, prior to August 8, 2023, the Building Department Director advised the Board’s 
administrative assistant that there were no matters ready to be brought before the Board.  The 
administrative assistant then informed the Board Chair who decided not to schedule a meeting in 
early August.  There is no evidence that the Chair discussed this issue with any other Board 
member.  Regardless, the Open Meeting Law specifies that  “deliberation” does not include “the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  As such, discussions that relate 
solely to scheduling do not constitute deliberation.  See OML 2017-110; OML 2016-115.  
Moreover, where the discussions about whether to schedule a meeting for August 8, 2023, 
occurred between one member of the Board and individual public officials, such 
communications would not constitute deliberation in any event.  See OML 2020-71.  Individual 
public officials are not public bodies and therefore are not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  See 
OML 2021-3.  To the extent that the complaint may be construed as alleging that the Chair 
effectively made a decision that should have been made by the Board as a whole, this allegation 
goes to the authority of individuals such as the Chair versus the Board to take action on 
particular matters, which is not a matter governed by the Open Meeting Law.  See OML 2018-
144.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to complete Open Meeting Law certification forms, failing to approve open session 
meeting minutes in a timely manner, creating insufficient minutes of the meeting held on July 
25, 2023, and deliberating outside of a properly posted meeting prior to the July 25, 2023, 
meeting.  We order the Board to revise the minutes of the July 25, 2023, meeting, within 30 days 
of the date of this letter.  As corrective action has already been taken regarding the other 
violations that we find, we order no additional remedial action.  Finally, we order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements, and we caution that similar future violations 
could be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Neil Johnsen – By email only:  
Quincy Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Building Department Director Robert Conlon – By 
email only: RCONLON@quincyma.gov 
Quincy City Clerk Nicole Crispo – By email only: ncrispo@quincyma.gov  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
