===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
June 10, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 86 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Paul Haverty, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski & Haverty, LLC 
paul@bbhlaw.net 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Haverty: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gerard Hall on December 30, 2019,
1 alleging that 
the Chelmsford Board of Health (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about November 4, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 19. The complaint alleges that during 
the Board’s October 7 meeting it discussed and voted on a topic that had not been included on 
the meeting notice.  
  
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law where the Chair did not anticipate 
discussing a proposed warrant article at the October 7 meeting 48 hours in advance of the 
meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to post notice no later than 48 hours in 
advance of any meeting and to include on the meeting notice “a listing of topics that the chair 
reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The morning of 
the Board’s October 7 meeting, a town resident communicated with Board member Annmarie 
Roark regarding a proposed warrant article for a zoning bylaw amendment that would create a 
“Continuing Care Community Overlay District” to address housing needs for senior citizens 
(“Article 23”). Concerned that Article 23 would allow for the construction of senior housing near 
an asphalt plant and that this could present potential health risks to elderly residents, Ms. Roark 
raised Article 23 for discussion during the Board’s meeting that evening. During its October 7 
meeting, the Board discussed Article 23. The Board voted to attend the Board of Selectmen’s 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019, unless otherwise stated.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
  
meeting scheduled for later that same day at which the Town Meeting Warrant was to be 
discussed, and to send a formal letter to the Planning Board expressing the Board’s opposition to 
parts of Article 23. Discussion of Article 23 was not included on the notice for the Board’s 
October 7 meeting. 
 
The Board explains that it does not typically participate in amendments to the Town’s 
zoning bylaws and therefore had not contemplated discussing Article 23 until it was brought to 
the attention of Ms. Roark on October 7 and she thereafter raised it at the Board’s meeting. The 
Board further explains that the chair at that time, Nick Parlee, had not anticipated a discussion of 
Article 23 during the October 7 meeting. After communications with counsel for the Board and 
the Complainant, and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we credit the Board’s 
account that the Chair had not anticipated a discussion of Article 23 48 hours prior to the 
October 7 meeting. See OML 2019-26; OML 2018- 26; OML 2017-2.
2 
 
The Complainant alleges that it is impossible that members of the Board were unaware of 
Article 23 and therefore the Board’s discussion of Article 23 on October 7 without including that 
topic on its meeting notice constituted a violation of the Open Meeting Law. In support of this 
contention, the Complainant notes that Article 23 was widely publicized and the topic of much 
discussion in the Town. The Complainant also notes that the Chair of the Board is the son of a 
member of the Planning Board and therefore must have been aware of Article 23. Although a 
Chair generally may be aware of a particular issue, the Open Meeting Law only requires a 
meeting notice to contain the topics the Chair reasonably anticipates discussing at the particular 
meeting for which the notice is posted. See OML 2020-53; OML 2018- 26; OML 2017-138. 
  
Although we do not find a violation here, the Attorney General strongly recommends that 
public bodies, as a matter of best practice, table unplanned topics that might be of significant 
interest to the public in order to include them in a meeting notice for a subsequent meeting. See 
OML 2016-54; OML 2018-119. We understand that this may not have been possible in this 
instance where the Town Meeting Warrant was scheduled to be discussed by the Board of 
Selectmen that same evening and by the Planning Board two days later, and the Board 
determined that it needed to raise its concerns about Article 23 to these two public bodies before 
they were to take a vote.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
  
 
 
cc: Gerard Hall (via e-mail: ) 
Chelmsford Board of Health c/o Susan Rosa, Health Director (via e-mail: 
srosa@townofchelmsford.us) and Paul Cohen, Town Manager (via email: 
pcohen@townofchelmsford.us) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
