===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 18, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 196 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law 
mreich@k-plaw.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received a complaint from Robert Volpe on April 30, 2024,
1 alleging that the 
Billerica Select Board (the “Board”), and specifically Board member Michael Riley who served 
as chair of the Board at the time, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
complaint was originally filed with the Board on February 29, and you responded on behalf of 
the Board by letter dated March 20. The complaint alleges that during the Board’s February 5 
meeting it discussed a topic that was not included on the meeting notice.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Board’s response, and the request for further review. We also reviewed the notice for, and 
minutes and video recording of the Board’s February 5 meeting.2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
Monday, February 5. Included on the notice as the first topic was “Open Microphone.” During 
the “Open Microphone” portion of the Board’s February 5 meeting, the Complainant addressed 
the Board regarding messages he had received Friday evening from Mr. Riley, who was then the 
chair of the Board. The Complainant read some of the messages aloud and explained that he 
believed Mr. Riley sent the messages in retaliation for the Complainant’s defense of a 95-year-
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 A video recording of the Board’s February 5 meeting can be found at 
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/sC8tLrxdhpB-glnrjAZCtQ9j-
SiG_2lw/playlists/10129/media/852848?key=sC8tLrxdhpB-glnrjAZCtQ9j-SiG_2lw. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
old resident the Complainant believed was being harassed and mistreated. No member of the 
Board, including Mr. Riley, responded to the Complainant’s comments at that time.  
 
Approximately two and a half hours later, after the conclusion of the Town Manager’s 
report, Mr. Riley addressed the Complainant’s earlier public comment, providing his views on 
what had transpired between himself and the Complainant and why. Another member of the 
Board challenged Mr. Riley regarding whether it was appropriate to address the Complainant’s 
comments at that time considering the Complainant had left the meeting. After an exchange 
between the Board member and Mr. Riley, the Board turned to other matters.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that,
  “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holiday.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting notices must include “a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” Id. Such topics must be listed 
with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(1)(b). A public body may, however, discuss a topic that was not 
included on the meeting notice if that topic was not reasonably anticipated 48 hours, excluding 
weekends and holidays, prior to the meeting.
3 See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; OML 2018-
119.4  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board, and specifically Mr. Riley, violated the Open 
Meeting Law where, after the Complainant provided public comment,  
 
there was no indication that the board was going to respond to my questions or 
concerns at that time and I left the building. Approximately 2.5 hours later, 
Chairman Riley decided to [i]ntentionally discuss[] topics not sufficiently listed on 
the meeting notice and engaged in responding to my public comments after I left 
the meeting.  
 
The Board asserts that no violation occurred because Mr. Riley’s com
 ments related to an 
unanticipated topic—the Complainant’s comments raised during the public comment portion of 
the February 5 meeting. Indeed, we understand that the messages that were the subject of the 
Complainant’s comments were sent on Friday evening prior to the Monday meeting; therefore, 
Mr. Riley could not have anticipated more than 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, 
prior to the meeting that the Complainant would discuss the messages during the public comment 
portion of the February 5 meeting. Additionally, the Open Meeting Law does not require a public 
body to provide notice to an individual that they will be discussed at a meeting unless the public 
body will discuss the individual in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). See OML 
2012-85; OML 2017-12. Therefore, we find that there was no violation of the Open Meeting 
Law when Mr. Riley responded to the Complainant’s comments made earlier in the meeting 
 
3 Although a public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic at a meeting, the Attorney General recommends 
postponing discussion and action on unanticipated topics that are controversial or may be of particular interest to the 
public if the topic can wait until a subsequent meeting. See OML 2020-172; OML 2019-131; OML 2018-119. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
without this topic ha ving been included on the meeting notice and despite the fact that the 
Complainant had left the meeting. See OML 2015-36 (“[T]he Open Meeting Law does not 
prohibit a public body from discussing or taking action on unanticipated topics raised by a 
person addressing the public body.”); OML 2022-100 (public body permissibly discussed an 
unanticipated topic that was raised by a member of the public during public comment, despite the 
topic not being included on the meeting notice).  
 
To the extent the complaint raises concerns about incivility or unprofessional behavior, 
we dec
line to review these allegations because, even if true, they do not constitute violations of 
the Open Meeting Law. See OML Declination 6-14-2016 (Sterling Board of Selectmen) (“An 
allegation of unprofessional conduct or incivility towards town employees or members of the 
public does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.”); OML 2019-166; OML 
Declination 5-25-2023 (Westminster Planning Board).
5 Nevertheless, our office encourages 
civility and professional conduct. See OML 2016-38, n. 1; OML 2019-166 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or 
with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: John Burrows , Chair, Billerica Select Board (via email: jburrows@town.billerica.ma.us)  
Michael Riley, Member, Billerica Select Board (via email: mriley@town.billerica.ma.us) 
Donna McCoy, Billerica Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@town.billerica.ma.us) 
Robert Volpe (via email: ) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
5 As remedial action the complaint requests that the Board respond to a public records request. We note that issues 
concerning compliance with the Public Records Law should be addressed to the Supervisor of Records within the 
Secretary of the Commonwealth’s office. 
