===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
September 6, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 170 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Carolyn Murray, Esq. 
KP Law 
cmurray@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received a complaint from Gregory Walsh on November 27, 2023, alleging 
that the Braintree Commission on Disabilities (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.
1  The complaint is dated September 11, and was submitted on 
November 27 to the Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division, who shared the complaint with 
the Division of Open Government.  The Complainant represented on November 29 that a copy of 
the complaint had previously been sent to the Commission’s Chair and to the Braintree Town 
Clerk, although the Commission and Clerk dispute having received any Open Meeting Law 
complaint until this office provided a copy of the complaint in February 2024.  Following an 
internal review and subsequent correspondence with the Attorney General’s Division of Open 
Government and Civil Rights Division, you responded, on behalf of the Commission, by letter 
dated March 8, 2024. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The complaint states that the Complainant has cerebral palsy, uses a wheelchair, is non-
verbal, and communicates via computer using his right foot, and therefore navigating websites 
can be challenging.  The complaint asserts that every month before Commission meetings, the 
Complainant must request a clickable hyperlink to join the Commission’s meetings, as he cannot 
copy and paste or type in the web link that sometimes is included on the Commission’s meeting 
notice in a non-clickable format.   
 
The Commission posted notice for a meeting to take place on September 11 at 6:30 PM.  
At 11:14 AM on September 11, the Complainant requested via email a clickable link to join that 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023, except where indicated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
evening’s meeting.  A staff member responded and provided the link at 4:31 PM, and the 
Complainant confirmed receipt.  The complaint requests that the Commission post meeting 
notices that include a single-click meeting access link, so that the Complainant does not need to 
request access to the meeting each month.  The complaint also requests that meeting notices, 
meeting documents, and meetings themselves be posted and conducted in a manner that is 
compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
 
Between November 2023 and January 2024, the Attorney General’s Civil Rights Division 
worked with the Town’s ADA Coordinator and Town Clerk staff to address accessibility 
concerns regarding the manner in which meeting notices are posted to the Town’s website.  The 
Town acknowledged that there were inconsistencies in how meeting notices were posted online, 
including that different versions of notices for the same meeting were sometimes posted in 
different places on the Town website, with one version posted by the Town Clerk including a 
clickable meeting access link and one version posted by the public body including no meeting 
access information at all or a link that was not clickable because of the document type.  The 
Town Clerk explained steps that had already been taken and others that would be taken soon to 
ensure greater accessibility, including revising the meeting notice template and mandating that 
Town departments and public bodies only post the meeting notice that has been verified by the 
Clerk’s office to eliminate the possibility of different versions. 
 
In March 2024, the Commission, through the Town’s newly appointed Town Solicitor, 
responded to the Open Meeting Law complaint in writing and reiterated the steps the Town 
Clerk had taken to ensure consistency and proper posting of meeting notices.  The Commission 
also explained that at its September 11 meeting it had discussed ongoing concerns with the 
accessibility of its meeting notices, including that the Town Clerk was working with the Town’s 
software provider to provide solutions to ensure that all meeting notices would be posted in a 
consistent, accessible format.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours i
n advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  
The notice must be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, 
time and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates 
will be discussed.  Id.  To satisfy the requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a meeting notice 
include the “place” of the meeting, the meeting notice must identify the specific meeting location 
or, if the public will access the meeting remotely, the meeting notice must include clear 
instructions for accessing the meeting remotely.  See OML 2021-17; OML 2020-102.2   
 
At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and a
ccessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public”).  For a meeting to be truly 
“open to the public,” it must be accessible to people with disabilities.  See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(a); see also OML 2023-43; OML 2020-47; OML 2015-38; OML 2012-49.  We have 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
explained, as a baseline, that meetings of public bodies that are held in person must be held in 
ADA-compliant locations, even in the absence of any particular request or known accessibility 
need.  See, e.g., OML 2024-130 (explaining that public body violated the Open Meeting Law 
when meeting was held in a non-ADA compliant location, even though there is no evidence any 
person was unable to attend as a result); OML 2023-43 (same).  However, Title II of the ADA 
requires that municipal services, including public meetings, be made accessible to people with 
disabilities, and therefore additional reasonable accommodations must be provided upon request 
to people with disabilities.  42 U.S.C. §§ 12131-12165 (1990); OML 2014-109; OML 2012-49.   
 
Here,
 there is no allegation that the meeting notice that was posted for the Commission’s 
September 11 meeting failed to include the date, time or place of the meeting as required by the 
Open Meeting Law; rather, the complaint alleges that the notice lacked digital accessibility 
because it did not include a clickable link to join the Zoom meeting.3  The complainant requested 
the link at 11:14 AM and the public body provided a link by email at 4:31 PM, two hours before 
the 6:30 PM meeting commenced.  Barring a showing that the Commission and the Town have 
refused a reasonable accommodation of the Complainant’s disability, we find no violation of the 
Open Meeting Law at this time.  See OML 2014-109.    
 
We understand that the Complainant has requested that the Commission and the Town 
post m
eeting notices that include single-click meeting access links routinely, rather than waiting 
for a request for each meeting, and also that other digital accessibility enhancements be made.  
The Town has committed to posting meeting notices that include a meeting link when the 
meeting will be held remotely and posting notices in a .pdf rather than .jpg format and has done 
so since for each meeting notice since February 2024.  We further note the Town has an 
appointed ADA Coordinator responsible for engaging in an interactive process with a requester 
to identify reasonable accommodations and ensure compliance and accessibility.  29 C.F.R. 
§ 1630.2(o)(3) (2012).  We refer the complainant to these resources for further assistance.  
Should this process not result in reasonable accommodation, the Civil Rights Division of the 
Attorney General’s Office is charged with enforcement of the relevant statutes governing the 
accommodation of disabilities and may be able to provide further assistance.4  
 
  
 
3 For meetings of a local public body, unless an alternative posting method has been adopted, the notice must be 
filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the 
municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c); 940 CMR 29.03(2).  As an 
alternative to posting a physical meeting notice on a bulletin board or other physical location that is visible at all 
hours, a municipality may choose to post notices to its website.  940 CMR 29.03(2)(b).  The Town of Braintree has 
not adopted the municipal website as its official notice posting method; therefore, the official notice posting location 
for meetings of Braintree public bodies is a bulletin board or other physical location at Braintree Town Hall.  
Although public bodies are welcome to post notice of their meetings in additional locations  if they choose, such as 
on a website, a municipality has only one official notice posting location for purposes of complying with the Open 
Meeting Law and we review the notice posted in that location when evaluating compliance with the Law .  See 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(c); OML 2023-36; OML 2022-228; OML 2021-94; OML 2020-20.  Regardless of the posting 
method used, reasonable accommodations must be provided to ensure the notice  as well as the meeting is accessible 
to individuals with disabilities. 
4 We bring the Town’s attention to the Department of Justice’s new regulations regarding digital accessibility for 
state and local governments, available at https://www.ada.gov/resources/2024- 03-08-web-rule/. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Commission.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Gregory Walsh (via email: ) 
Kristina Ziniti, Braintree ADA Coordinator (via email: kziniti@braintreema.gov) 
Braintree Town Clerk (via email: jmcasey@braintreema.gov) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
 
