===PAGE 1===
  THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
1 
 
September 25, 2020 
 
       O M L  2020 – 119 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Gerard Dolan, Esq. 
Assistant General Counsel 
Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Dolan: 
 
This office received two complaints filed by Attorney Andrew Hyams, on behalf of two 
of his clients, on February 3, 2020, alleging that the Massachusetts Board of Registration in 
Medicine (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints 
were originally filed with the Board on December 4, 2019, and you responded on behalf of the 
Board by letters dated December 20, 2019.
1 The complaints allege that on November 7 the Board 
convened in executive session to discuss Attorney Hyams’ clients “without providing 48 hours[’] 
notice, in violation of G.L. c. 30A, section 21(a).”   
 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, the Board’s responses, the 
request for further review, the November 7 executive session minutes and a transcript of the 
executive session. We also communicated with counsel for the Board
2 and with Attorney Hyams 
by email. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows. The Board received a Health Care Facility Disciplinary 
Report filed pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 111, section 53B (“53B Report”) 
for each of Attorney Hyams’ clients. Pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 112, 
 
1 Hereinafter, all dates are in 2019 unless otherwise stated.  
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person throughout. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
  
section 5, and the Board’s regulations thereunder, when the Board receives certain information, it 
must publish that information in a publicly available physician profile. Before publishing the 
information, the Board must provide a copy of the physician profile to the physician, and must 
give the physician a reasonable amount of time to correct any factual errors in the physician 
profile.  
 
Each of Attorney Hyams’ clients informed the Board that they disputed at least some 
portion of the 53B Report and the publication of that information on their physician profile. In 
response to the disputes, on November 7, the Board convened in executive session “under G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(7) to comply with, or act under the authority of, G.L. c. 112, § 5, concerning 
physician profile disputes.” In executive session, the Board considered the physicians’ profile 
disputes and whether the information contained in the 53B Reports should be published on the 
physicians’ profiles.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). A public body may enter into 
executive session for any one or more of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). When convening in executive session, each topic to be discussed must be 
individually listed on the meeting notice as well as in the announcement in open session prior to 
entering executive session, and the public body’s discussions must be restricted to those topics. 
See OML 2020-68; OML 2019-170.3  
 
One permissible reason to hold an executive session is “[t]o discuss the reputation, 
character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an 
individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges brought against, 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual” (“Purpose 1”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21 (a)(1). 
Under Purpose 1, the individual to be discussed has certain rights, including the right to 
individual notice, to be present at the executive session, to speak on his or her behalf, to have 
counsel present, and to record the executive session. A public body may also convene in 
executive session “[t]o comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or 
federal grant-in-aid requirements” (“Purpose 7”). G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(7). A public body entering 
executive session under Purpose 7 must state the specific law that requires the public body to 
keep its deliberations confidential.  
 
We begin our analysis by noting that in 2012 our office resolved a similar complaint 
against the Board’s Data Repository Committee. OML 2012-12. That complaint similarly 
alleged that the Data Repository Committee “mistakenly went into executive session pursuant to 
section 21(a)(7). The Committee should have gone into exec. session under section 21(a)(1) 
since they were discussing ‘discipline’ and ‘complaints’ brought against my client.” For many of 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
  
the same reasons we found that the Data Repository Committee did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in 2012, we find here that the Board did not violate the Law.  
 
As in OML 2012-12, Attorney Hyams asserts here that the Board was required to 
convene in executive session under Purpose 1, rather than Purpose 7. Attorney Hyams asserts 
that because a physician profile dispute “by definition deals with ‘reputation,’” and because the 
53B Reports pertain to discipline of an individual and constitute complaints or charges against an 
individual, the Board was required to convene in executive session under Purpose 1.
4 We have 
consistently held that when a discussion may properly be held under multiple executive session 
purposes, the public body may choose which executive session purpose(s) to cite. See OML 
2019-164; OML 2012-53. Provided that Purpose 7 constituted a proper purpose for the Board to 
convene in executive session in these circumstances, and that the Board limited its discussions to 
matters that fall within the scope of Purpose 7, the Board was free to rely on Purpose 7 rather 
than Purpose 1.    
 
Here, we find that, because Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 111, section 53B and 
Chapter 112, section 5 require that 53B Reports remain confidential, the Board properly 
convened in executive session under Purpose 7 to discuss the profile disputes with respect to 
information contained in the 53B Reports. See OML 2012-12.  The Board also asserts that 
profile disputes must be discussed in executive session because Chapter 112, section 5 requires 
that the profile information be provided to the physician before being published and that the 
physician be provided a reasonable amount of time to dispute the factual accuracy of the 
information. We need not decide whether this provision also satisfies the requirement for 
Purpose 7 because we find that the confidentiality requirement for 53B reports is a valid basis for 
meeting in executive session under Purpose 7.  
 
Additionally, we find that convening under Purpose 1 would not have been proper. The 
Board was not considering disciplinary action against the physicians, nor was it directly 
discussing their reputations, characters, physical condition, or mental health. Rather, the Board 
discussed whether the physician disputes illuminated factual errors within the 53B Reports such 
that the information in the reports should not be published on the physicians’ profiles.   
 
Finally, although not raised in the complaint because the executive session minutes had 
not yet been released to the public or the Complainant, we find that the Board’s November 7 
executive session minutes are insufficiently detailed. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
 
4 Attorney Hyams notes that the Board’s prior practice had been to invite the physician and counsel into the 
executive session at which the physician profile dispute would be discussed. In fact, we understand that in response 
to the complaints at issue here the Board stayed its decision pending a new review of the disputes. Regardless, 
whether or not the Board has changed its practice with respect to inviting physicians into executive sessions at 
which it will discuss their profile disputes is not relevant to our analysis. A public body may invite any individual or 
public body to attend or participate in an executive session if the public body believes that doing so would assist the 
public body in its work and would not jeopardize the purpose for meeting in executive session. We make no 
determination here with respect to whether the Board should invite physicians to participate in executive session 
discussions regarding their profile disputes.  
===PAGE 4===
4 
  
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a). The minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the 
public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of 
what occurred. See OML 2016-105. Although a transcript of the discussions is not required, and 
the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes must include a 
substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2020-57; OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29. The Open Meeting Law requires that meeting minutes include more than a statement 
that a public body held a discussion about a specified topic; the Law requires that the minutes 
summarize the discussion that was held. See OML 2020-57; OML 2019-167. Based on our in 
camera review of the minutes of the Board’s November 7 executive session, we find that the 
minutes are inadequate to meet the standard required by the Open Meeting Law because they do 
not offer a sufficiently detailed summary of the Board’s discussions, and instead simply state that 
the Board considered the profile disputes and the recommendation of a staff member. We order 
the Board to amend its November 7 executive session meeting minutes in accordance with the 
requirements of G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law as alleged. However, we find that the minutes of the Board’s November 7 executive session 
are insufficiently detailed, and we order the Board to amend its November 7 executive session 
meeting minutes in accordance with the above guidance. The Board is ordered to revise the 
executive session meeting minutes and to certify to this office within sixty (60) days of the date 
of this letter that it has amended the minutes. See 940 C.M.R. 29.07(4). We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints which may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Andrew Hyams, Esq. (via e- mail: ) 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
