===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
July 26, 2018 
OML 2018-112 
Joseph Macy, Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Macy: 
This office received a complaint from Mr. Patrick Higgins, dated June 19, alleging that 
the Fall River City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Council on June 6, and the Council responded 
by letter dated June 18. In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Council violated the Open 
Meeting Law when a quorum of the full Council met as the Council's Subcommittee on 
Ordinances and Legislation (the "Subcommittee") without posting a joint meeting notice. 
Following our review, we resolve this matter by informal action, in accordance with 940 
CMR 29.07(2)(a), and we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. The 
Council is a nine-member public body; therefore, five members constitute a quorum. Five 
Councilors serve on the Subcommittee. The Subcommittee held a meeting on June 6 and posted 
notice of a Subcommittee meeting; the notice did not state that the meeting would involve a 
quorum of the Council. We have previously determined that a quorum of a public body may sit 
on its subcommittee without having to post a separate meeting notice, provided that the 
discussion is limited to matters within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee. See OML 2013-
155.2 In his response to the complaint, the Council's legal counsel wrote that "no discussion of 
topics occurred beyond the Subcommittee's jurisdiction." As the complainant has provided no 
evidence to the contrary, we credit this statement. See OML 2016-141 (absent evidence to the 
contrary, we credit a public body's version of the facts). Accordingly, the Board did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2018. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Fall River City Council 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to GX. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
2 