===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 27, 2022 
 
OML 2022 - 197 
        
 
Shanna Reed, Esq. 
First Assistant City Solicitor 
City of Westfield 
59 Court Street 
Westfield, MA 01085 
 
By email only: s.reed@cityofwestfield.org 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Reed: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Dupuis on July 14, 2022,1 alleging that the 
Westfield City Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on June 2, and the Council responded by 
letter dated June 3.  The complaint alleges that Mr. Dupuis was removed from the Council’s May 
5 meeting and not permitted to complete his three minutes of allotted public participation.  
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged.  In reaching this determination we reviewed the complaint filed with the Council, the 
Council’s response, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
viewed a video recording of the Council’s May 5 meeting and spoke with the Council’s legal 
counsel, who was present at the May 5 meeting.  Finally, we reviewed a Westfield Police 
Department incident report filed regarding the events that occurred during the May 5 meeting, 
and in particular the narrative report of Lieutenant Scott Phelon who responded to the meeting 
and subsequently spoke with the Councilors who were present at the meeting as well as others in 
attendance.       
 
As a preliminary matter, we decline to review the allegation that Mr. Dupuis was not 
permitted to speak for the full allotted three minutes per speaker during the public participation 
portion of the Council’s May 5 meeting.   The Division of Open Government’s authority 
concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  The Open Meeting Law states that “[n]o 
 
1 Unless otherwise noted, all dates refer to the year 2022.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
person shall address a meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons 
shall, at the request of the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(g).  The Law does not require that a 
public body allow public participation; rather, the Law gives the chair of the public body 
discretion to decide whether to permit public comment during a meeting, and if public comment 
will be permitted, to set restrictions on public comment.  See OML Declination 4-8-22 (Savoy 
Select Board); OML 2020-9; OML 2019-138; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.2  
Because it is within the Chair’s discretion whether to allow public comment at all, as well as to 
establish parameters for public participation during a meeting, an allegation that Mr. Dupuis’ 
public comment was cut short would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law in any 
event.  See OML 2020-114; OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-78.  
 
We note that although the Open Meeting Law does not require public bodies to allow 
public
 comment or questions during meetings, we encourage public bodies to allow for as much 
public participation as time and circumstances permit. Furthermore, we offer no opinion as to 
whether any actions taken by the Council or the Chair, or any town policy that may have been 
relied on in limiting public comment, might violate Mr. Dupuis’ constitutional rights or any other 
law or regulation outside the scope of our review.  See OML 2013-135, n. 2.  Likewise, we take 
no position as to the merits of Mr. Dupuis’ remarks that led to the termination of his public 
comment. 
 
Next, we review whether Mr. Dupuis was unlawfully removed from the Council’s May 5 
meetin
g.  The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  Except when meeting in executive session, all meetings 
of a public body shall be open to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a).  In order to be open to the 
public, a meeting must be accessible to the public. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2014-3.  
Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as to see and 
hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2017-135; OML 
2016-54.  Nonetheless, the right to be present during a meeting is not absolute.  The Open 
Meeting Law states, “No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. If, 
after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may 
order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair 
may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting.”  See G.L. c. 
30A, § 20(g); OML 2013-135; OML 2011-2 (“The Open Meeting Law gives clear authority to 
the chair of a public body to conduct the meeting and regulate who may speak to the body. If the 
chair determines that a member of the public is disruptive, then the chair is empowered to ask 
that person to leave or have that person removed.”).  
 
At t
he beginning of the Council’s May 5 meeting, the Council held a public comment 
period, which the Council president stated would be up to fifteen minutes in length, with each 
speaker allowed up to three minutes.  Mr. Dupuis was the first speaker.  He began by stating that 
all Councilors except one were “a bunch of cowards” related to their denial of a host community 
agreement for a marijuana facility he sought to open in Westfield.  He accused the Council of 
running a “good old boy club” city government and stated that the Council “went a little too far 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
with the Dupuises, now I’ve filed an appeal, and you are going to end up in court.”  He stated 
that every pothole and every problem with the city is “all you guys.”  He accused the Councilors 
of wasting their time on personal vendettas and stated they are all guilty and “it’s going to come 
out.”  Approximately one minute into these comments, Council President William Onyski 
interjected and stated that Mr. Dupuis may not make personal and disrespectful attacks.  Mr. 
Onyski repeatedly and forcefully stated “Thank you. Thank you.” in an attempt to terminate Mr. 
Dupuis’ comments.  Mr. Dupuis did not heed the clear directive to cease his comments and 
instead continued with his remarks about the Councilors.  Mr. Onyski then called for a recess and 
the recording of the meeting was stopped.  Mr. Dupuis continued to speak, and stated to the 
councilors “I know where you all live” and a comment to the effect of “I know where your 
families live.”  He also got louder and walked around the speaker podium, closer to the 
councilors.  Throughout his comments, Mr. Dupuis spoke in an angry tone.  In combination with 
prior interactions that Mr. Dupuis had with the city, Councilors perceived Mr. Dupuis’s behavior 
at the May 5 meeting as threatening.  While Mr. Dupuis was still speaking, one Councilor went 
outside and called 9-1-1; other individuals may have called police as well.  Mr. Dupuis left the 
meeting location before police arrived.    
 
We recommend that removal of an individual from a public meeting be used only as a 
last re
sult when a person continues to disrupt a meeting despite directives to the contrary or in 
cases of violent, threatening, or abusive behavior.  See OML 2018-77; OML 2013-135.  Here, 
based on Mr. Dupuis’ disruptive and threatening behavior, we find that Council President Onyski 
acted within his discretion under the Open Meeting Law when he instructed Mr. Dupuis to cease 
his comments and sought to have Mr. Dupuis removed from the meeting when he did not 
comply.  See OML 2018-27; OML 2013-135; OML 2011-2.  Therefore, the Council did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We now c
onsider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. Please 
feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mark Dupuis (via e -mail: ) 
Westfield City Council (via e-mail: william.onyski@cityofwestfield.org) 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
