===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 16, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 96 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Colleen Mejia, Esq. 
Everett City Solicitor  
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Mejia: 
 
This office received two complaints from Steven Fitzgerald on January 28, 2021,1 
alleging that the Everett City Council (the “Council”) and its Committee of the Whole (the 
“Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were 
originally filed with the Council on December 18, and you responded on behalf of the Council 
by letter dated January 20, 2021.2 The complaints allege that the Council and the Committee held 
meetings on December 14 that were not broadcast live on Everett Community Television 
(“ECTV”), as the notices for the December 14 meetings indicated they would be.3      
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Council and the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, 
the Council’s response, the request for further review, and the notices for the December 14 
meetings. We also reviewed notices for Council meetings held on December 16 and 21.  
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The Council did not respond to the complaints within the 14 business days allowed under the Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). We remind the Council of its obligation to comply with all provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, including the obligation to timely respond to Open Meeting Law complaints. 
3 The complaint includes additional information that is unrelated to the allegation that the December 14 meetings 
were not broadcast live. We understand this information to have been provided as background information and not 
as additional allegations.  

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 2020-100; 
OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54.4 On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order 
temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law, including the provision that 
requires meetings be physically accessible to members of the public, but only if a public body 
instead provides adequate, alternative means for the public to access its meetings remotely. See 
Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 
2020) (the “Executive Order”).  
 
On December 10, at 12:00 a.m., the Committee posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
December 14 at 6:00 p.m. Although the notice included a physical address, the notice stated that 
the meeting would be held remotely and provided that the meeting could be viewed live on 
ECTV and the City’s website. On December 10, at 6:08 p.m., the Council posted notice for a 
meeting to be held on December 14 at 7:00 p.m. This notice also included a physical address, but 
stated that the meeting would be held remotely and provided that the meeting could be viewed 
live on ECTV and the City’s website. Additionally, this notice included a link to a Zoom meeting 
and dial-in information for the meeting.  
 
The complaints allege that both the 6:00 p.m. Committee meeting and the 7:00 p.m. 
Council meeting were not in fact broadcast live on ECTV as the notices indicated they would be. 
In its response, the Council explains that the Committee was unable to convene a quorum for the 
6:00 p.m. meeting and that the Committee had learned of technical problems with the live 
broadcast via ECTV. For these reasons, the Committee did not hold its meeting scheduled for 
6:00 p.m. on December 14. The Council further explains that the 7:00 p.m. meeting also 
experienced technical problems with the live broadcast via ECTV. When the Council learned of 
the continued technical problems, it adjourned the meeting and the topics that were scheduled for 
discussion on December 14 were rescheduled for discussion at meetings held on December 16 
and 21. Indeed, the vast majority of the topics that had been scheduled for both December 14 
meetings were included on the notices for the Council’s December 16 and 21 meetings. 
Additionally, in response to a request from our office, the Complainant did not dispute that the 
Council’s December 14 meeting had been adjourned and the discussion topics rescheduled.  
 
We find that the Council and the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law on 
December 14. The Committee explains that a quorum was not present at its December 14 
meeting and that for this reason, and due to technical problems with the live broadcast, it did not 
hold a meeting on December 14. Where no Committee meeting took place on December 14, the 
Committee cannot have violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to broadcast a meeting on 
December 14. Furthermore, the Open Meeting Law defines “meeting” as “a deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Law in turn defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium . . . 
between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.” Id. 
(emphasis added). Therefore, even if the Committee had called to order a meeting, if no quorum 
was present, then this would not have constituted a meeting under the Open Meeting Law and 
would not have been subject to the Open Meeting Law. Finally, where the Council adjourned 
and rescheduled its December 14 meeting after learning that there were technical problems that 
interfered with the live broadcast of the meeting, the Council did not violate the Law. Indeed, the 
Council took exactly the actions we advised it to take in such situations in an earlier 
determination. See OML 2021-17.   
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council and the Committee did not violate 
the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with 
our office, the Council, or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 
if you have any questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
 
cc: Rosa DiFlorio, Everett City Council President (via e-mail:   
Everett City Council (via e-mail:   
Steven Fitzgerald (via e-mail:   
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
