===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
March 12, 2012 
OML 2012 — 20 
Ms. Elizabeth Dello Russo 
City of Boston 
Law Department 
City Hall, room 615 
Boston, MA 02201 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Dello Russo: 
This office received three complaints from Mr. John Allen, two dated July 26 and one 
dated July 29, 2011, alleging violations of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25, by the 
City of Boston's Boston Bikes Program ("BBP"), Nicole Freedman, and the Boston Bicycle 
Advisory Board ("BBAB") 1. Specifically, the first complaint alleges that the BBP and Ms. 
Freedman, as the Director of the BBP, violated the Open Meeting Law when they failed to post 
notice of a meeting held in the North End on April 28, 2011. The second complaint alleges that 
the BBP and Ms. Freedman violated the Open Meeting Law when they failed to post notice of a 
meeting held on June 6, 2011. The third complaint alleges that the BBAB and Ms. Freedman did 
not properly notice a meeting held on June 7, 2011, in violation of the Open Meeting Law. The 
complaints were filed with the City of Boston on May 26, 2011 and June 10, 2011. The City 
responded to the complaints by letter dated July 13, 2011. 
We find that neither the BBP, Ms. Freedman, nor the BBAB violated the Open Meeting 
Law, as none is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, 
we reviewed the May 26, 2011 and June 10, 2011 complaints; correspondence between you and 
The Boston Bicycle Advisory Board is also referred to as the Boston Bicycle Advisory Committee. This entity 
was established in 2008. There was also an entity known as the Boston Bicycle Advisory Committee which was 
created by executive order of the Mayor of Boston in 1999. That entity no longer exists. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Allen dated June 6, 2011, June 7, 2011, and June 16, 2011; and the July 13, 2011 response 
from the City of Boston. We also reviewed Mr. Allen's July 26, 2011 and July 29, 2011 
complaints filed with our office. 
FACTS 
The Boston Bikes Program is a department within the City of Boston's executive branch. 
The program is a "mayoral initiative designed to promote bicycling in Boston" and, according to 
the City of Boston's website, is part of "Mayor Menino's vision for a vibrant and healthy city 
that benefits all its citizens. It seeks to make Boston a world-class bicycling city by creating safe 
and inviting conditions for all residents and visitors." The BBP is run by Nicole Freedman, who 
serves as its director. There is no multiple-member governing board or committee that oversees 
the program. 
On April 28, 2011, Ms. Freedman, in her capacity as Director of the BBP, and a 
consultant for the City of Boston, Toole Design Group, presented a plan called "Harbor Bikes" 
to a small group in the North End. This meeting was not noticed in accordance with the Open 
Meeting Law. The BBP held another meeting on June 6, 2011, which also was not noticed in 
accordance with the Open Meeting Law. 
According to the City of Boston, the BBAB is a group formed by Ms. Freedman in 2008. 
It functions as a sounding board for individual members of the BBAB to provide Ms. Freedman 
with feedback on the bikes program. There is no set membership, there is no quorum 
requirement, and the group takes no votes. It does not generally post notice of its meetings. The 
BBAB held a meeting on June 7, 2011, and did not post notice in accordance with the Open 
Meeting Law. 
DISCUSSION 
A threshold question raised by any alleged violation of the Open Meeting Law is whether 
the entity being complained against is a "public body" subject to the Open Meeting Law. The 
Open Meeting Law defines "public body" in relevant part as "a multiple-member board, 
commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any 
county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise 
constituted, established to serve a public purpose..." G.L. c. 30A, §18. To determine whether a 
multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, there are three factors 
we consider which apply to all public bodies: 
1. The entity must be "within" government and not excluded from the definition of 
"public body"; 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The entity must be a "body," empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a "public purpose."2  
Ms. Freedman is an individual public employee, and not a member of a public body. She 
therefore was not bound by the Open Meeting Law and could not have violated it. Furthermore, 
we find that neither the BBP nor the BBAB are public bodies. The BBP is an entity within 
government, but it is not a multiple-member board. The BBP is a "mayoral initiative designed to 
promote bicycling in Boston," and is a department within city government. Because the BBP is 
not a multiple-member board, it cannot be a public body. 
While the BBAB is a multiple-member entity within government, it is not a body 
empowered to act collectively. According to the City of Boston, the BBAB is a group formed by 
Ms. Freedman in 2008. It functions as a sounding board to provide Ms. Freedman with the 
individual feedback of its members, and does not take collective action. There are no votes, 
there is no set membership, and there is no quorum requirement. The BBAB has not been vested 
by the city with any authority to act or advise. It is akin to a focus group assembled by Ms. 
Freedman, and is not a public body. Ms. Freedman could solicit the same feedback by calling or 
meeting with each individual BBAB member, but chose for efficiency purposes to convene a 
focus group. Because the BBAB is not a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law, it did 
not violate the law by failing to post notice of its June 7, 2011 meeting.3  
CONCLUSION 
We find that that Ms. Freedman, the Boston Bikes Program, and the Boston Bicycle 
Advisory Board are not public bodies subject to the Open Meeting Law, and thus did not violate 
the law. We appreciate the cooperation from the City of Boston in helping us resolve this matter. 
We now consider these complaints resolved and this matter closed. Please contact me if 
you have any questions. 
Sincer ly, 
/.14)nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: John Allen 
2  See OML 2010-1 for an explanation of this three part analysis. 
3  We note that the complainant may have the BBAB confused with the Boston Bikes Advisory Committee, an entity 
that may have been a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. That entity was established by Boston Mayor 
Thomas Menino in 1999 by executive order, and appears to have ceased to exist sometime in the prior decade. 
3 