===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 8, 2016 
OML 2016-123 
Mark H. Boudreau, Esq. 
Boudreau & Boudreau, LLP 
396 North Street 
Hyannis, MA 02601 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Boudreau: 
This office received a complaint from Agnes Murray, dated June 27, alleging that the 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on June 2, and 
the Committee responded by letter dated June 22. In her complaint, Ms. Murray alleges that the 
Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee's response, and 
the request for further review filed with our office. We reviewed all documentation provided 
with these filings, including the notice and minutes of a Committee meeting held on May 9.2 We 
also reviewed a supplementary response filed with us by legal counsel for the Committee on 
August 5.3 Finally, we spoke with counsel for the Committee by telephone on August 22, and 
we spoke with Cotuit Fire District Treasurer Michael Daley by telephone on August 24. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
2 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the minutes of the Committee's May 9 meeting lack certain details 
required by the Open Meeting Law. The law states that public bodies must create minutes "setting forth the date, 
time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the 
record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes are a transcript of the meeting, and therefore do not comply 
with the law's requirement that minutes contain a summary of discussions, kk The minutes also do not include a 
list of documents used at this meeting. Ick We take this opportunity to remind the Committee of its obligations 
under the Open Meeting Law. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a three-member public body. At issue is 
the Annual Warrant of the Cotuit Fire District. Article 5, Section 2 of the District Bylaws states 
as follows: 
The Prudential Committee shall receive the proposed budgets and articles of the District 
officers and departments and proposed for the inclusion in the warrant for the Annual 
District Meeting at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Prudential Committee held 
during the month of March in each year and shall make recommendations thereon to the 
Annual Meeting. 
The Committee posted notice for a meeting to take place on May 9. Among other topics, 
this notice stated that one of the anticipated discussion topic was "Finalize Annual Meeting 2016 
Warrant." Prior to this meeting, District Treasurer Michael Daley, who is not a member of the 
Committee, had prepared a draft copy of the Annual Warrant in collaboration with the Fire 
District's clerk. The draft copy listed several articles under which was written, "The Prudential 
Committee recommends this Article." This language was taken from the previous year's draft 
Warrant. 
The Committee held the May 9 meeting as planned. During this meeting, the Committee 
discussed the Warrant articles at issue. However, the Committee did not take any formal votes to 
approve or disapprove the various articles. The Fire District held its Annual Meeting on May 24 
and 25. During this meeting, draft copies of the Warrant were circulated stating that certain 
articles were recommended by the Committee. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law is designed to eliminate "much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghighlione v. School Committee 
of Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. The law defines a "meeting" as, "a deliberation by a public 
body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A 
"deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is a simple majority 
of the member of the public body. Id 
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated outside of a noticed meeting in 
deciding to approve the articles in the Annual Warrant. As evidence, the complaint points to the 
statement appearing below the various articles— "The Prudential Committee recommends this 
Article"—along with the lack of a vote taken during any noticed meeting. The recommendation 
at issue was included in the text by the District Treasurer, who is not a member of the 
Committee. His preparation of the draft Warrant did not involve communication between or 
among a quorum of the Committee. The Committee stated in its response that no deliberation 
took place outside of a posted meeting concerning the preparation of the Warrant. Absent 
2 
===PAGE 3===
evidence to the contrary, we credit the public body's version of events and find no violation. See 
OML 2016-95.4 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Agnes Murray 
Cotuit Fire District Prudential Committee 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c), A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 