===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 27, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 206 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Rebecca Kaye 
Senior Deputy General Counsel 
Department of Public Health 
Rebecca.Kaye@mass.gov  
 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Kaye: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mary Jirmanus Saba on August 29, 2023,
1 alleging 
that the Healthcare Associated Infection/Antibiotic Resistance Technical Advisory Group (the 
“Group”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally 
filed with the Department of Public Health (the “Department”) on or about August 8, and you 
responded on behalf of the Department by letter dated August 28. Although the complaint is 
framed as a request for information and documents, including meeting minutes, we understand 
the underlying issue to be whether the Group is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law 
such that it would be required to create meeting minutes.
2  
 
Following our review, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the 
Group’s response, the request for further review, and additional information provided by the 
Complainant and the Group. We also communicated with counsel for the Department.3 
 
1 All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The Open Meeting Law governs requests made pursuant to the Open Meeting Law for meeting minutes  only. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 22. Requests for records other than meeting minutes are governed by the Public Records Law. See 
G.L. c. 66, § 10. Because the Division’s review pertains to compliance with the Open Meeting Law only, we do not 
review whether records requested by the Complainant are subject to disclosure under the Public Records Law.  See 
OML Declination 7-6-21 (Mount Greylock Regional School Committee). Issues concerning compliance with the 
Public Records Law should be addressed to the Supervisor of Records within the Secretary of the Commonwealth’s 
office. 
3 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Group was created by the Department in order to 
comply with funding requirements from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The 
Group “is comprised of hospital epidemiologists, infection preventionists, consumers, advocates, 
academics and representatives from state agencies, professional organizations and trade 
organizations [as well as] senior staff and other representatives from the [Department]’s Bureau 
of Infectious Disease and Laboratory Sciences and Bureau of Health Care Safety and Quality.”
4 
The Group provides guidance to the Department on issues related to healthcare associated 
infections and antibiotic resistance to support the Department’s healthcare associated infections 
plan.  
 
The Department determines the structure, priorities, and membership of the Group, and 
may expand the membership based on the need for guidance regarding additional areas of 
expertise. Department staff schedule the Group’s meetings and invite individuals to attend. 
Typically, between 15 to 20 individuals attend the Group’s meetings; however, the Group has no 
quorum requirement and meetings would proceed regardless of how many individuals attended. 
The Group has no chair, although it did at one time, and its meetings are informal with attendees 
advising Department staff about what is happening in hospitals across the state, giving 
presentations, discussing best practices, and providing guidance. The Group does not take any 
votes, does not create documents or reports, and does not issue advisory opinions. The 
Department has the sole authority to make decisions based on the information and guidance 
provided by members of the Group. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law applies to public bodies and individuals serving as public body 
member
s. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law defines a “public body,” in 
relevant part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the 
executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however 
created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]” 
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
 
To de
termine whether a multiple-member entity is a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law, there are three factors we consider:  
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of    
“public body”;  
 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and  
 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.”  
 
 
4 Massachusetts HAI Plan 2016-2020, available at https://www mass.gov/doc/massachusetts-hai-plan-2016-
2020/download. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
See OML 2017-118; OML 2016-102; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42; OML 2010-1.5  
 
The Group satisfies the first factor as it was created and is overseen by the Department. 
The Group is an entity of the Department and is thus within government. See OML 2011-42. The 
Group also satisfies the third factor where it provides important information and guidance to the 
Department and the Commissioner regarding infectious diseases and antibiotic resistance. Id. 
Although the Group satisfies the first and third factors, we find that it is not a public body subject 
to the Open Meeting Law because it fails the second factor.  
 
The Group fails the second factor because it is not empowered to act collectively. See 
OML 2019-135; OML 2015-162; OML 2012-20; OML 2011-42. In the past, our office has 
declined to apply the Open Meeting Law to advisory groups that fail the second prong of the 
public body analysis. For example, we concluded that the Department of Early Education and 
Care Provider Working Team was not a public body for purposes of the Open Meeting Law, 
even though it was “within government” and served a “public purpose,” because the group “has 
no quorum requirement - [staff] meet with and solicit feedback from whichever members show 
up to meetings.” OML 2011-42. Here, we find that the Group shares certain qualities with the 
Care Provider Working Team. Although typically between 15 to 20 individuals attend the 
Group’s meetings, the Group has no quorum requirement and meetings would proceed regardless 
of the number of attendees. Additionally, the Group does not take any votes, create any 
documents, or issue any advisory opinions. Rather, the Group is essentially a focus group, 
providing information and expert guidance to the Department that the Department may then use 
in making decisions about its healthcare associated infections plan. Because the Group does not 
satisfy all three factors, as outlined above, we find that it is not a public body subject to the Open 
Meeting Law.
6 See OML 2022-54. 
  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
6 Because we find that the Group does not satisfy all three factors and therefore is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, we do not address whether the Group would fall within the judicially  recognized exception 
established in Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991).  
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Group is not a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and therefore could not have violated the Law. We now consider the 
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with the Group or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jaclyn K. Gagné, Esq., Acting Chief Deputy General Counsel, Department of Public 
Health (via email: Jaclyn.K.Gagne@mass.gov)  
Mary Jirmanus Saba (via email: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
