===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 5, 2016 
OML 2016-165 
Josh Foskett, Esq. 
Deutsch Williams 
One Design Center Plaza 
Boston, MA 02210 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Foskett: 
This office received two related complaints from Patrick Higgins alleging that the 
Ashland School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. Both complaints were filed with the Committee on June 23, and the Committee 
responded to both by letter dated August 5.1 Both complaints were then filed with our office on 
August 18. In his complaints, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Committee posted insufficiently 
detailed meeting notices on two occasions. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee posted insufficiently detailed meeting 
notices, however we find that this error was harmless. In reaching a determination, we reviewed 
the complaints, the Committee's response, and the requests for further review filed with our 
office. We reviewed the notices of Committee meetings held on May 25 and June 8. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complaints concern two Committee meetings held on 
May 25 and June 8. On May 10, the Committee posted notice of its May 25 meeting. The notice 
listed the location of the meeting as, "Ashland High School—Conference Room." 
On June 2, the Committee posted notice of its June 8 meeting. The notice listed the 
location of the meeting as, "Ashland Town Hall." A typed notation on the bottom of the notice 
stated as follows: "THIS AGENDA WAS POSTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 
PROVISIONS OF MGL 30A §§ 18-25 AND APPROVED BY THE TOWN CLERK'S OFFICE 
ON: 6/2/2016 3:32:09 PM[.]" 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
DISCUSSION 
Public bodies must post notice of every meeting. G.L. c. 3OA, § 20(b). The notice must 
be printed in a legible, easily understandable format and must contain the date, time and place of 
the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. 
Id. The date and time that the notice is posted must be conspicuously recorded on or with the 
notice itself. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
The complaints allege that the Committee's May 25 and June 8 meeting notices are 
deficient because they do not state the street addresses of the Ashland High School and Town 
Hall. We have stated in past determinations that a public body should provide the street address 
of a meeting location, where possible. See OML 2016-38.2 However, we have also concluded 
that where a complaint does not allege that any member of the public was actually mislead by the 
meeting notice at issue, any error that may exist is harmless. See OML 2016-77. Here, the 
complaints do not allege that any members of the public were confused by the notices at issue. 
Accordingly, we remind the Committee of its obligations under the Open Meeting Law. See 
OML 2016-146.3 
For the reasons stated above, we find that, while the Committee should have included the 
street address of the meeting locations on the respective notices, any resulting error was 
harmless. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Ashland School Committee 
Patrick Higgins 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 In one of the complaints, the complainant argues that the statement on the June 8 meeting notice was improper, as 
the clerk has no authority to "approve" meeting notices. This allegation does not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25, and we therefore do not review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board 
of Commissioners). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 
===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 