===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 8, 2016 
OML 2016-121 
James Donahue, Esq. 
1252 Elm Street, Suite 26 
PO Box 465 
West Springfield, MA 01090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Donahue: 
This office received a complaint from Attorney Austin Joyce on June 9, alleging that 
the East Longmeadow Police Chief Search Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, GL. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on or about January 6, 2016, and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, to the complaint 
by letter dated May 12, 2016. In his complaint, Attorney Joyce alleges that, during its March 
9 meeting, the Committee convened in executive session "without an appropriate motion and 
roll call vote." Additionally, Attorney Joyce alleges that the Committee voted by secret ballot 
during its February 26 executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law in 
the ways alleged, In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting 
further review. We also reviewed the minutes of Committee meetings held on February 26 
and March 9, as well as a video-recording of the March 9 meeting, which the complainant 
provided to us. 
We find the facts as follows. In February, the East Longmeadow Board of Selectmen2 
(the "Board") created the Committee to interview the preliminary candidates for the Town 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 We note that, effective July 1, 2016, the Town adopted a new form of government with a Town Council and a 
Town Manager, replacing the Board of Selectmen. It does not appear that this Committee has been dissolved, 
however. Two of the three former selectmen are currently serving on the Town Council. 
FACLS 
C: 
===PAGE 2===
Police Chief.3 The Board asked the Committee to review resumes and recommend three final 
candidates for the Board's consideration. The Committee met three times before making its 
recommendation to the Board during its March 9 meeting. 
At the start of the March 9 meeting, the Committee asked the audience to remain in 
their seats for a few minutes to allow the Committee to convene in executive session. The 
Committee made a motion to convene in executive session "to approve the minutes" and to 
"return to public [session]." The Committee members did not individually declare "yea" or 
"nay" out loud, but appeared to unanimously approve the motion by nodding their heads and 
stating their names. Upon returning to open session, the Committee explained its selection 
process to the audience. The Committee explained to the audience that, at a prior meeting on 
February 26, the Committee voted in executive session to recommend three candidates to the 
Board for its interview and consideration.4 The Committee's voting process was conducted 
by secret ballot wherein members submitted individual written ballots to the Town 
Administrator indicating their top three choices. The Committee members did not disclose 
their choices to each other or otherwise announce their votes during the meeting. Rather, the 
Town Administrator tallied the written votes for each candidate and identified the candidates 
who had received the most votes. The Committee used the same voting process to break a tie 
in the first round of voting. Ultimately, the Committee decided on three final candidates and 
voted to "keep [the] ballots for town archive." 
Between the February 26 meeting and the March 9 meeting, two of the three 
candidates withdrew their applications, leaving one finalist available for the Committee to 
consider. Rather than recommend the sole finalist, the Committee decided to recommend that 
the Board renew the current Police Chiefs contract for another year to give the Town more 
time to conduct another search. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to meet in open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). A public body may enter executive, or closed, 
session provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of 
the body have voted to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the 
executive session, the chair must state the purpose for the executive session, including all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive 
session was called, and the chair must publicly announce whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session. IcL 
The complaint alleges that the Committee convened in executive session "without an 
appropriate motion and roll call vote as required." We find that the Committee complied with 
3 The police chiefs contract expired at the end of March. 
4 The Committee met previously in open session, on February 16 and February 19, during which it discussed the 
resumes of all of the candidates. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
all but one of the procedural requirements for convening in executive session, although we 
note that the Committee's roll call vote to convene in executive session should have been 
vocalized as a "yea" or "nay" by each member. See OML 2015-122. However, the 
Committee's one misstep was that its motion for executive session should have enumerated 
the specific dates of the meetings for which it planned to approve minutes. See OML 2013-
ITO.5 Accordingly, we find that the Committee violated the law by failing to provide 
sufficient detail about the anticipated executive session. As a result of this procedural 
violation, the Committee may not continue to withhold the minutes of the March 9 executive 
session under the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f) (minutes of an executive 
session may be withheld from disclosure to the public as long as publication may defeat the 
lawful purposes of an executive session, provided that the executive session was held in 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law); OML 2014-42; OML 2014-30. The Committee 
may continue to withhold the minutes from the general public, in whole or in part, under any 
applicable exemptions to the Public Records Law or the attorney/client privilege. 
We agree with the complainant that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
selecting the final three candidates by secret ballot during its February 26 executive session. 
The Open Meeting Law explicitly prohibits votes taken by secret ballot. See G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(b); OML 2015-145. Furthermore, the law requires that any vote taken in executive session 
be recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, kl Accordingly, we order the 
Committee, or Town Council in the alternative as the Town's chief legislative body, to revise 
the executive session minutes to reflect the votes taken by each Committee member and to 
release all three rounds of ballots to the public. Although we find no violation for the 
Committee's improper executive session because it was not alleged, the Committee should 
release the February 26 executive session minutes to the public, if it has not already done so. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to comply with the procedural requirements for convening an executive 
session during its March 9 meeting and by taking votes by secret ballot during its February 26 
executive session. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law. 
We extend this order to all future search committees created by the Town Council, and 
caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
In addition, because the Committee failed to follow proper procedure in convening its 
March 9 executive session, the Committee may not rely upon the Open Meeting Law as the 
basis for continuing to withhold the minutes of that executive session. However, the attorney-
client privilege or one or more exemptions to the Public Records Law may allow the 
Committee to withhold the minutes, in whole or in part, from disclosure. Finally, we order 
the Committee, or the Town Council in place of the Committee, to revise the February 26 
executive session minutes and to release the ballots to the public within 30 days of receipt of 
this determination. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Austin Joyce, Esq. 
East Longmeadow Town Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
4 