===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
September 30, 2024  
  
OML 2024 – 180 
VIA EMAIL  
  
Deborah Steenland, Esq. 
Deputy General Counsel  
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
135 Santilli Highway 
Everett, MA 02149-1962 
 
deborah.steenland@mass.gov 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints  
 
Dear Attorney Steenland:  
 
This office received complaints from Sana Fadel and Faiza Khan on April 8 and April 15, 
respectively, alleging that the Board of Elementary and Secondary Education (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  Sana Fadel originally filed her 
complaint with the Board on February 18; Faiza Khan filed hers on February 20.  You responded 
on behalf of the Board by separate letter to each on March 1.  The complaints allege that the 
notice of the Board’s January 23 meeting was not sufficiently specific.   
 
Foll
owing our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged 
in the complaints.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Board’s responses to the complaints, and the complainants’ requests for further review.  In 
addition, we viewed the video recording of the January 23 meeting
2 and reviewed the notice and 
minutes of the meeting held on January 23.  We also reviewed the minutes of the Board meeting 
held on November 21, 2023.  Finally, I spoke with you and Board Chair Katherine Craven via 
zoom on July 12.   
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  During the public comment portion of the Board’s 
November 21, 2023, meeting, two public school students (a senior at Brookline High School and 
a sophomore at Holliston High School) spoke on the rise of antisemitism and bullying in 
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 The video can be accessed at https://livestream.com/madesestreaming/events/11073409/videos/239597676 . 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Massachusetts.  After the November 21, 2023, meeting, and in response to the public comments 
of the two students, interest in the subject reached a “fever pitch,” according to Board Chair 
Katherine Craven.  Board members received multiple inquiries about speaking to the Board on 
the subjects of bullying and antisemitism.  The Board members relayed these requests to Chair 
Craven.  Additionally, Andrea Silbert spoke with Chair Craven directly, expressing an interest in 
addressing the Board on the subject of antisemitism.   
 
The Board was scheduled to next meet on December 19, 2023.  However, that meeting 
was can
celed.  The Board scheduled a meeting for January 23, to commence at 9:00 a.m., its first 
meeting since the meeting of November 21, 2023.  Notice of the Board’s January 23 meeting 
was posted electronically on Thursday, January 18 at 7:50 p.m.  The notice included “Statements 
from the Public” and “Comments from the Chair,” as well as substantive subjects such as 
awards, school safety and the budget.
3  A memorandum was accessible through a link on the 
notice.  The memorandum provided further information on the topics listed on the notice but did 
not reference bullying or antisemitism.  Neither the notice nor the memorandum available 
through the link stated that a panel of speakers would present about bullying or antisemitism or 
who such speakers would be.   
 
 The Board generally allots thirty minutes to public comment at the beginning of its 
meetings, with ten slots of three minutes each.  Individuals who wish to speak during public 
comment may sign up for a slot in advance of the meeting, or at the start of the meeting if slots 
remain.  Prior to posting the notice on the evening of January 18, Chair Craven was aware that 
five individuals wished to speak at the January 23 meeting and that these five speakers planned 
to address the topics of antisemitism or antisemitic bullying.  On Friday, January 19, Chair 
Craven spoke with the Commissioner of the Department of Elementary and Secondary 
Education, Jeffrey Riley, in preparation for the January 23 meeting.  She told Commissioner 
Riley that there were five individuals who wanted to speak at the Board’s January 23 meeting 
and asked whether the ten public comment slots were already reserved.  Commissioner Riley 
believed that the ten public comment slots were already reserved; Chair Craven did not learn 
what those ten persons planned to talk about until they spoke at the meeting.  (Seven of the ten 
 
3 In a footnote in the notice, the Board provided the following guidance regarding public comment:  
 
The Board welcomes public comment on matters within its purview. Accordingly, the Board makes available 
a maximum 30-minute period at its regular meetings for persons in the audience to address the Board for no 
longer than 3 minutes. Written material of any length may be submitted. Preference will be given to persons 
who seek to address the Board on specific agenda items for the upcoming Board meeting.   Agendas for 
upcoming Board meetings are generally posted 5 days prior to the meeting on the Board of Elementary and 
Secondary Education’s website . Persons wishing to speak are strongly encouraged to submit their request 
before the day of the meeting; contact information is provided below. Preference will be given to those who 
submit requests by 5:00 p.m. on the Thursday preceding the regular Tuesday meeting. If  time permits, the 
Chair will allow members of the public who have not contacted the Department in advance to speak in the 
public comment period; those individuals must sign in prior to the start of the meeting. The Chair may limit 
the number of speakers due to time constraints and may increase or reduce the time allocated per speaker. 
While there is no requirement to submit comments in writing, a speaker who elects to do so should submit 
15 copies of their comments prior to or at the meeting for distribution to Board members. Requests to address 
the Board, written comments, and other inquiries may be transmitted by mail, e -mail, fax, or telephone to: 
Massachusetts Board of Elementary and Secondary Education, 135 Santilli Highway, Everett, MA 02149, 
Phone: 781-338-3112, Fax: 781-338-3770, Email: BoardofEducation@mass.gov.  Please make any requests 
for special accommodations or interpretation services at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled meeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
persons who registered for public comment spoke to the subject of antisemitism.)  As explained 
by the Board in its response to the complaint, Chair Craven decided to exercise “her discretion to 
extend the public comment period when she invited five individuals to speak on issues relating to 
antisemitism in schools.”  In exchange, she would cede some of the meeting time devoted to the 
chair’s report. 
 
On Sunday, January 21, Chair Craven telephoned the five speakers and advised that they 
would be allowed to speak at the January 23 meeting.  Chair Craven telephoned the five speakers 
as a courtesy due to the long drive some would make to the meeting.  During those telephone 
calls, she did not discuss the substance of the presentations with the speakers.  There was no 
policy before the Board and she considered the five speakers to be participants in public 
comment.  Chair Craven did not communicate via email with the five speakers about the January 
23 meeting. 
 
 Publ
ic comment occupied approximately forty minutes at the beginning of the January 23 
meeting.  Upon conclusion of the public comment period, the Board reached the chair’s report.4  
Chair Craven noted her concern about systemic antisemitism in schools since October 7, 2023.  
She stated: “I’ve invited five members of different groups who I’ve been talking to since October 
7 to come up and specifically talk to us about some of the things that are going on out there.”  
She referenced public comment that the Board had heard earlier that morning regarding the 
Board’s “role in different aspects of learning” and added “We feel good about the genocide bill” 
and “history frameworks in a curriculum.”  She spoke favorably of a renewed emphasis on 
civics.  However, “there is a lot of evidence out there since October 7 and heightened awareness 
of systemic antisemitism.”  She recalled that the Board held a day-long retreat on racism in the 
aftermath of the George Floyd murder.  “So I am inviting five people up in addition to the folks 
that came today bravely in public comment to talk about antisemitism.”   
 
Before the five speakers (“the Panel”) approached their microphones, Chair Craven cited 
with concern polls purportedly showing that young Americans do not know the reason why 
Israel was established as a state.  She asked rhetorically, “Is there something wrong going on in 
education in Massachusetts and across the country?”  She introduced the five members of the 
Panel by name and organization as they took their seats.  She continued: “I’ve asked them to give 
us two to three minutes each [with] a specific focus on what they’ve heard today but also what 
their experience is out there.  This adds on to what we heard this morning.”  As the speakers took 
their seats, she stated: “I will start with Andrea [Silbert] to talk about what the IHRA
5 definition 
is of antisemitism.”  The Panel’s presentation lasted approximately 25 minutes.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance, not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at 
 
4 This report commences at approximately 42:09 in the recording. 
5 International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
the meeting.”  Id.  The list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the 
public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.  940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).   
 
We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently specific when a reasonable member of 
the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s 
discussion.  See OML 2023-3; OML 2019-134; OML 2015- 35.6  The Open Meeting Law 
requires that the notice describe topics with sufficient specificity so that the public can make an 
informed decision whether to attend the meeting in order to observe the discussion regarding a 
topic of interest.  See OML 2023-86; OML 2019-95; OML 2018-22.   
 
A public body may discuss a truly unanticipated topic not included on the meeting notice, 
although the Attorney General strongly recommends that public bodies, as a matter of best 
practice, table discussion of unanticipated topics that might be of significant interest to the public 
so that the topics can be included on the notice for a future meeting.  See OML 2019-131; OML 
2018-119; OML 2013-87.  When reviewing whether a topic was anticipated, we look to whether 
it was reasonably anticipated for discussion at the particular meeting at issue.  See OML 2024-6; 
OML 2023-101; OML 2022-203.  The Open Meeting Law does not require that the chair of a 
public body guess what will occur at a meeting or anticipate the course of deliberations.  See 
OML 2021-39; OML 2020-55; OML 2018-134.  Even where the chair considers that a topic is of 
interest to the public body and may be discussed at some time, it need not be included on the 
notice if the chair does not anticipate that it will be discussed at the meeting for which the notice 
is posted.  Compare OML 2019-26 (topic of outsourcing ambulance service was not reasonably 
anticipated where it was “rattling around” in chair’s head and fire chief’s presence in audience 
unexpectedly prompted discussion) and OML 2022-121(topic of flag policy was not reasonably 
anticipated where committee and chair were generally considering adoption of flag policy but 
did not anticipate raising it at meeting in question), with OML 2023-101 (topic of septic plan 
was reasonably anticipated even though board “may not have known definitively that review of 
the septic plan would be completed in time for discussion at the October 18 meeting”). 
 
There is no dispute that Chair Craven was aware of strong public interest in combatting 
antisemitic bullying at least since the student presentations at the November 21, 2023, meeting.  
This awareness alone would not require that the topic be included on the notice of the January 23 
meeting unless Chair Craven reasonably anticipated that the topic would be discussed at the 
January 23 meeting in particular.  Based on our investigation, we find that Chair Craven knew on 
or before Thursday, January 18 (more than 48 hours prior to the meeting), that the five speakers 
that expressed an interest in addressing the Board on January 23 would speak about antisemitism 
and/or antisemitic bullying.  Chair Craven acknowledged to our office that she knew that the five 
Panel members would speak to the subjects of antisemitism or antisemitic bullying, although she 
did not have advance notice of the particulars.  She knew that at least some, if not all, of these 
speakers would attend and speak during the January 23 meeting as of January 18, more than 48 
hours prior to the meeting.   
 
  
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website,  
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
In her own introductory remarks prior to the Panel taking their seats, Chair Craven noted 
that she had communicated with members of the Panel prior to the January 23 meeting.  The 
speakers were “members of different groups who [the Chair had] been talking to since October 7. 
. . .”  She stated during the January 23 meeting that she invited the Panel to address the Board 
during the “Comments from the Chair” section of the meeting.  When introducing Andrea 
Silbert, the first Panel speaker at the January 23 meeting, she stated that Ms. Silbert would talk 
about the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s definition of antisemitism.  The 
Panel’s comments led to extended reflections by other members of the Board.7  Because the 
topics addressed by the Panel, antisemitism and antisemitic bullying, were anticipated by Chair 
Craven more than 48 hours prior to the meeting, they were required to be listed in the notice.   
 
Finally, we address the Board’s assertion that the topics of antisemitism and antisemitic 
bullying arose during public comment and were not among the Board’s own topics of discussion.  
We note that it is the chair’s reasonable anticipation that the public body will discuss a topic, not 
an artificial designation as public comment, which guides our analysis.  See OML 2015-12 
(Chair’s statement during “Citizen’s Comments” section of meeting should have been listed in 
notice).  A public body may not shield a topic from inclusion on the notice by incorporating it 
into a public comment period.  We emphasize that we have not previously required a public body 
chair to ascertain the intended subject matter of public comment from various speakers, nor to 
routinely list on a meeting notice the names of individuals who have indicated a desire to speak 
during public comment, especially where the chair does not expect the public body to discuss the 
topic raised.  Cf. OML 2015-4 (possibility that topic of renaming winter vacation might be raised 
during public comment did not require that chair list topic on meeting notice).  Therefore, we 
acknowledge the Board’s confusion or uncertainty as to whether the speakers and subject matter 
of the Panel needed to be separately included on the meting notice.  However, based on the 
totality of the information and circumstances, we find that the Panel’s speakers did not address 
the Board merely as participants in public comment independent of the Board’s agenda, but 
rather as a coordinated group who spoke to a topic that was anticipated and deliberately 
introduced by the Chair, suggesting an imprimatur not typically accorded public comment 
participants.  Therefore, the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include an 
anticipated topic on the notice for its January 23 meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its January 23 meeting.  We order immediate and 
future compliance with the law’s requirements and we caution that similar future violations may 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.  We commend the Board for voluntarily 
attending training on the Open Meeting Law.  We decline to order that the Board invite a second 
panel to respond to the proposals of the January 23 panel, as requested by the complainants. 
 
 
7 The participation of other Board members in the discussion is not required to find a violation.  See OML 2024-23 
(noting that “the expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a 
quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member responds ”). 
===PAGE 6===
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Matt for
Matthew Lindberg
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Sana Fadel (via email:
Faiza Khan (via email:
Katherine Craven, Chair, Board of Elementary and Secondary Education (via email:
Katherine. Craven@mass.gov)
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
6