===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 26, 2013 
OML 2013-178 
David J. Rushford 
City Clerk 
City Hall, Room 206 
455 Main St. 
Worcester, MA 01608 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Rushford: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Councilor Konstantina Lukes, 
dated June 27, 2013, alleging that the Worcester City Council (the "Council") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Council 
deliberated outside of an open meeting when ten of the eleven City Councilors agreed to endorse 
a matter under consideration by the Council. The complaint was filed with the Council on or 
about April 11, 2013. The Council responded by letter dated May 20, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the April 11, 2013 complaint filed with the Council; 
the Council's May 20, 2013 response; and the June 27, 2013 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the minutes and video recordings of the Council's April 2, 2013 and 
April 9, 2013 meetings. Finally, we interviewed Mayor Joseph Petty by telephone on October 
15,2013. 
The Council is a public body consisting of eleven councilors, thus six members constitute 
a quorum. The Mayor is a member, and the Chair, of the Council. During the Council's April 2, 
2013 meeting, ten councilors spoke in favor of a request by the Council's Standing Committees 
on Economic Development and Public Safety to hold public hearings concerning the "host-
community agreement" relative to a potential slots parlor. The purpose of the proposed hearings 
was to give Worcester residents an opportunity to provide input as to what should be included 
within a "host-community agreement" with Mass Gaming and Entertainment, LLC. The Council 
FACTS 
o 
===PAGE 2===
also discussed a request that the City Manager assist the Committees by providing appropriate 
departmental resources, such as legal, economic, law enforcement and public works, for such 
hearings, and a request that the City Manager invite any other stakeholders he deemed 
appropriate. During the discussion, the ten council members spoke in favor of negotiating a 
host-community agreement to be put to a citywide referendum. 
On April 9, 2013, the Council held another open meeting. During the New Business 
portion of the meeting. Councilor William Eddy moved that the Council authorize the City 
Manager to negotiate a host community agreement with the intention of placing the agreement 
before the people of Worcester so that "they may exercise their right to be educated and to vote 
on this all important topic." Councilor Konstantina Lukes moved to table to motion under 
privilege before the Council discussed the motion further. This ended debate for the remainder 
of the meeting and pushed the discussion to a subsequent meeting. 
The Mayor's Office issued a press release on April 10, 2013 at 12:35 PM, listing ten 
councilors who endorsed the motion, and noting that "[t]his order is not an endorsement by the 
council of the proposed slot parlor. This order is to request the City Manager to negotiate the best 
host agreement on behalf of the residents." According to Mayor Petty, he spoke with only one 
councilor following the April 9, 2013 meeting, and did not speak with any other councilors 
outside of a public meeting regarding this matter. The endorsement information contained in the 
press release was derived from his understanding of the ten councilors' public support for 
negotiating the host-community agreement, particularly from the statements made at the 
Council's April 2, 2013 meeting.1 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law defines "deliberation," in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. All deliberation 
must occur during a properly noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18; 20(b). 
Here, the Mayor spoke with only one other member of the Council following the 
Council's April 9, 2013 meeting. The press release issued by the Mayor's Office on April 10, 
2013, listing ten endorsements for a motion, was drafted based on the public comments of the ten 
councilors and not on private conversations with the Mayor. Therefore, we find that the Council 
did not deliberate outside of an open meeting and thus did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
1 Although not raised in this complaint, there had been suggestion in correspondence with this office that 10 
Councilors met at a diner following the April 9, 2013 meeting to discuss and agree to endorse the motion. Mayor 
Petty denies that this meeting occurred, and we have not been presented with any evidence to the contrary. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: David Moore, City Solicitor 
Worcester City Council 
Councilor Konstantina Lukes 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 