===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
November 7, 2017 
OML 2017-169 
Katharine Feodoroff 
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, Suite IF 
Millis, MA 02054 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Feodoroff: 
This office received a complaint from Stephen Morgan, dated May 16, alleging that the 
Ashland Charter Review Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on April 19, and, after 
an extension of time was granted by our office, the Committee responded by letter dated May 11 
In his complaint, Mr. Morgan alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by: (i) 
posting insufficiently detailed meeting notices on four occasions; (ii) creating minutes that lack 
sufficient detail on two occasions; and (iii) failing to identify documents used during a meeting 
in the minutes. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee failed to create sufficiently detailed 
meeting minutes. However, the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect 
to the other allegations. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee's response, and the request for further review filed with our office. We also 
reviewed the notices and minutes of Committee meetings held on March 23 and 28 and April 21 
and 20. Finally, we spoke with the Board's attorney by telephone on October 25.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a seven-member public body appointed 
by the Ashland Board of Selectmen for the purpose of reviewing provisions of the town charter 
and reporting on any proposed amendments or revisions. In this process, the Committee 
received guidance from the Collins Center for Public Management at UMass Boston. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 23. The notice listed, 
among other topics, "Vote on committee recommendations for Parts 1 through 9," and "Review 
and preparation for meeting with Collins Center on March 28[.]" The Committee held the March 
23 meeting as planned. The minutes of the March 23 meeting state, in relevant part, the 
following: 
Part 8—Discussion ensued regarding the language. Steve moved to insert in 8-1 (d) the 
wording proposed by the chair, KG seconded. Motion passed 4-0-1 (Ken abstained). 
An additional review of all sections to confirm language was made. Steve moved to 
[approve] all language in sections 1-9 as discussed, KG seconded. Motion passed 5-0-0. 
The March 23 meeting lasted approximately two and a half hours, with the above-
mentioned discussion of the charter language taking up the majority of that time. The March 23 
meeting minutes list the following documents as used during the meeting: the draft minutes of 
two earlier meetings, the draft Section 8 of the charter, and a copy of the town charter with notes 
and recommendations. 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 28. The notice listed, 
"Discussion with Collins Center staff," under which were listed three subtopics, including, 
"Committee's draft report and recommendations for Parts 1 through 9[.]" The Committee held 
the March 28 meeting as planned. The minutes state, in relevant part, as follows under the 
heading "Discussion with Collins Center staff: 
-Committee's draft report and recommendations for Parts 1 through 9: Mike and Tanya 
provided some feedback on proposed changes and clarified a few points. Some language 
was adjusted, but no major content modifications were made to existing 
recommendations. Mike and Tanya will send their suggested language changes in 
writing for the committee's consideration. 
The March 28 meeting lasted nearly three hours, with the discussion of the draft report 
and recommendations taking up the majority of that time. The March 28 meeting minutes list 
the following documents used during the meeting: the draft minutes of two earlier meetings and 
a copy of the town charter with notes and recommendations. 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 12. The notice listed, 
among other topics, the following: "Discussions of Collins Center memo as follow-up to issues 
discussed on March 28, 2017," and "Drafting report for BOS and next steps." 
The Committee posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 20. The notice listed, 
among other topics, the following: "Discussions of Collins Center memo as follow-up to issues 
discussed on March 28, 2017," and "Drafting report for BOS and next steps." 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Meeting Notices at Issue Contained Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Taw requires a public body to post notice of a meeting at least 48 
hours in advance, including a "listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be 
2 
===PAGE 3===
discussed at the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public bodies must list topics on a notice with 
"sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting." 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b); OML 2014-47.3 We generally consider a topic sufficiently 
specific when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion. See OML 2015-35. 
The complaint alleges that four meeting notices lacked sufficient detail. While the 
complaint does not specify which notice topics were insufficient, we understand the complaint to 
challenge the level of detail given concerning the Charter and Collins Center discussions. With 
respect to the charter discussions, the meeting notices refer to the "parts" of the charter under 
discussion at each meeting. While the notices do not specify that the "parts" to be discussed 
were the parts of the town charter, we conclude that a reasonable member of the public would 
have understood the meaning of the topic, given the Committee's charge to review the town 
charter. To the extent that the complaint contends that the notices should have listed each 
Committee member's precise recommendations for the charter, we conclude that the notices 
were sufficiently detailed to inform the public of the topics to be discussed during the meetings. 
See OML 2016-151. With respect to the Collins Center discussions, we find that the notices 
properly listed the topics to be discussed, and, while additional information would have been 
useful, the notices met the Open Meeting Law's minimum requirements. Id. 
II. The March 23 and 28 Meeting Minutes Lack Sufficient Detail. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at 
each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with 
the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64. By substantial compliance, we mean that the 
minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who did 
not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2012-106. 
The complaint alleges that the March 23 and 28 meeting minutes lack sufficient detail to 
properly summarize the discussions that took place. We agree. These two meetings each lasted 
more than two hours, and the minutes of each condense the discussion into a few sentences. For 
example, the March 23 minutes state that "[djiscussion ensued," and the March 28 minutes 
reference feedback that was provided, but the minutes do not explain that discussion or feedback. 
This lack of detail violated the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2017-144. We note that the 
Committee incorporated the changes discussed during the March 23 and 28 meetings into a 
report that was provided to the Ashland Board of Selectmen. In its response to the complaint, 
the Committee offers this as evidence of its commitment to transparency with respect to its 
deliberations. We commend such efforts, but the Open Meeting Law nevertheless requires 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website: 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
public bodies to create minutes containing detailed summaries of discussions. G.L. c. 30A, § 
III. Because the Committee did Not Use Any Documents During the Meetings at 
Issue, the Minutes are Not Required to List Any Documents. 
Meeting minutes must include a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting. 
G.L. c. BOA, § 22(a). The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to 
be "used" at a meeting, but we have stated in prior determinations that a document is "used" at a 
meeting when it is, at a minimum, physically present and verbally identified, and its contents are 
discussed. See OML 2016-94, OML 2012-59. 
The complaint alleges that the minutes of the March 23 and 28 meetings fail to include a 
list of documents used during the meetings. In its response, the Committee states that the 
documents listed in the March 23 and 28 minutes were the only documents used during those 
meetings. Absent sufficient evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body's version of the 
facts. See OML 2017-138. We therefore find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law with respect to this allegation. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee's March 23 and 28 meeting 
minutes are insufficiently detailed. We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future violations may be considered 
evidence of intent to violate the law. We further order the Committee, within thirty (30) days 
from receipt of this letter, to amend the March 23 and 28 meeting minutes to include the missing 
detail. Upon completion of these amendments, the Committee must notify our office of 
compliance in writing, pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(4). 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
22(a). 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
I 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stephen Morgan 
Ashland Charter Review Committee 
4 
===PAGE 5===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
5 