===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 11, 2015 
OML 2015-130 
Jessica Wielgus, Esq. 
Commission Counsel 
Cape Cod Commission 
3225 Main Street 
Barnstable, MA 02630 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Wielgus: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty, dated June 4, alleging that the Cape 
Cod Commission Executive Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L 
c. 3OA, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on May 22, and the 
Committee responded to the original complaint by letter dated May 29. In his complaint, Mr. 
Beaty alleges that the Committee failed to: (i) respond to his request for executive session 
minutes within the time frame required by law; and (ii) review minutes at reasonable intervals. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee failed to review executive session 
minutes at reasonable intervals. While we find that the Committee responded to Mr. Beaty's 
request with the time frame required by law, we find that its response was insufficient. In 
reaching our determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Committee; the 
Committee's response; and the complaint filed with our office. We also spoke with the 
Committee's Counsel by telephone on July 28 and August 19.2 
We find the facts as follows. On May 11, Mr. Beaty sent an e-mail to the Committee 
requesting all executive session minutes from meetings held between 2010 and 2013. The 
Committee responded to that request by letter on May 20. Although the executive session 
minutes requested by Mr. Beaty had not been reviewed prior to this date, the Committee's 
Counsel conducted a cost analysis of what it would cost to produce all of the requested minutes. 
The May 20 letter stated that the cost of copying the minutes would be $84.88. The response to 
Mr. Beaty did not indicate whether the minutes had been reviewed, or, if not, when such a 
FACTS 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2015. 
2 For the purpose of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
review would be conducted. Following receipt of the May 20 letter, Mr. Beaty filed this Open 
Meeting Law complaint with the Committee on May 22. 
The Committee met on May 28 to review Mr. Beaty's Open Meeting Law complaint. 
During this meeting, the Committee also discussed the executive session minutes that were the 
subject of Mr. Beaty's May 11 request. The minutes discussed during the May 28 meeting had 
not been reviewed prior to that meeting. When the Committee resumed in open session, it was 
announced that all requested minutes would be released. Believing that the May 20 letter was 
sufficient to notify Mr. Beaty that the minutes would be available, the Committee did not 
communicate with him further after the May 28 meeting.3 To date, copies of the minutes have 
not been provided to Mr. Beaty, as he has not paid the cost of making the copies. 
DISCUSSION 
I. The Committee Failed to Review its Executive Session Minutes at Reasonable 
Intervals. 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted to "eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Thus, the Open Meeting Law requires that a public body 
"create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions." G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(a); OML 2015-86.4 A public body, or its chair or designee, must, at reasonable 
intervals, review the minutes of executive sessions to determine if continued nondisclosure of 
those minutes is warranted. G.L. c. BOA, § 22(g)(1). 
The complaint alleges that the Committee failed to review its executive session minutes 
at reasonable intervals. Prior to Mr. Beaty's request on May 11, the Committee had not 
reviewed the executive session minutes of meetings held between 2010 and 2013 to determine 
whether they could be released to the public. The minutes discussed during the May 28 meeting 
were, in some cases, five years old.5 We therefore find that the Committee failed to comply with 
the Open Meeting Law's requirement that public bodies conduct a periodic review of their 
executive session minutes. G. L. c. 30A, §. 22(g). We note that since this complaint was filed, 
the Committee has pledged to review its executive session minutes more frequently. 
II. The Committee Responded to Mr. Beaty's Request within the Time Frame Required 
bv Law, but the Response was Insufficient. 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days of 
the request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If a public body has determined, prior to the request, that 
the requested executive session minutes may be released, the body should respond to the 
3 When asked how the May 20 letter could have been sent prior to the vote to release the minutes on May 28, the 
Committee's Counsel stated that it was clear upon receipt of the request that the minutes would be released. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
5 The requirement that executive session minutes be reviewed periodically took effect on July 1, 2010. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 22(g)(1); OML 2014-105. We note that two of the executive sessions at issue—January 19, 2010 and April 
29, 2010— took place before that date. We therefore find that the Committee did not violate the law with respect to 
those executive sessions. See OML 2015-62. However, we encourage public bodies as a best practice to perform a 
periodic review of executive sessions held prior to July 1,2010. Id. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the requested executive session minutes may be released, the body should respond to the 
requester directly, notifying him or her whether those minutes are available. See OML 2015-53. 
If, at the time of a request, the public body has not conducted a review of the minutes to 
determine whether continued nondisclosure is warranted, the body must perform such a review 
and release the minutes, if appropriate, no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, 
whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body should still 
respond to the requestor within 10 days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. 
See OML 2015-53; OML 2015-9. 
In this case, the Committee did respond to Mr. Beaty within the time frame required by 
law, but its response was inadequate. At the time of Mr. Beaty's request, the Committee had not 
conducted a review of the requested executive session minutes to determine whether they could 
be released. Counsel's letter did not say this, however, nor did it provide information about 
when the minutes would be reviewed for this purpose. Rather, the Committee's Counsel 
provided only a cost estimate pursuant to the Public Records Law, G.L. c. 66, § 10(a), for 
producing copies of the requested minutes.6 While such an estimate may be an appropriate part 
of a letter notifying a requestor that minutes were available, here the review had not been 
conducted yet thus this aspect of the response was premature. Further, the Committee did not 
follow up with a letter to the complainant after that review was conducted to notify him of the 
availability of those minutes. We therefore find that, while the Committee ultimately reviewed 
and released the requested minutes within the time frame required by law, the Committee failed 
to properly respond to a request for executive session minutes. This violated the Open Meeting 
Law. See OML 2015-53; OML 2013-99. 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. We order the Committee's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution the Committee 
that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Cape Cod Commission 
6 We take no position as to whether the cost estimate here was reasonable, however we note that the Supervisor of 
Records encourages public bodies to waive all fees associated with meeting minutes. See A Guide to the 
Massachusetts Public Records Law, page 4, available at http://www.sec.state.ma.us/pre/prepdf7guide.pdf. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincere] v 
Kevin Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 4===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
4 