===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 20, 2020 
 
       OML 2020 – 132 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Paul Ferland  
Fall River Administrator of Community Utilities 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Mr. Ferland: 
This office received two complaints from Collin Dias, alleging that the Fall River Sewer 
Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The 
first complaint was originally filed with the Commission on May 28, 2020,1 and you responded 
on behalf of the Commission by letter dated June 17. The complaint alleges that 1) the 
Commission failed to provide real-time access to its May 27 meeting, and 2) the May 27 meeting 
notice was insufficiently detailed with respect to the topics “Contract #1 Waste Water Treatment 
Facility Contract: -Change Order #1” and “FY2021 Budget and Rates.” The second complaint 
was originally filed with the Commission on August 31, and, after being granted an extension of 
time to respond, the Commission responded on October 9. The second complaint alleges that, 
after being granted an extension of time to respond, the Commission failed to respond to another 
complaint that the Complainant filed with the Commission on June 18.2 
 
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), 
and find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide adequate, 
alternative means of access to its May 27 meeting, failing to post a sufficiently detailed meeting 
notice with respect to one topic, and failing to timely respond to the Complainant’s June 18 Open 
Meeting Law complaint. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The June 18 complaint remains pending with our office. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
complaints, the Commission’s responses, the requests for further review, the May 27 meeting 
notice, and a video recording of the May 27 meeting.3   
 
 On March 12, Governor Baker issued an executive order temporarily suspending certain 
provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the state of emergency created by the outbreak of 
the 2019 novel Coronavirus. See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”). Relevant here, the Executive 
Order temporarily suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically 
accessible to the public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public 
access. The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall 
mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.” Executive Order at ¶ 1.  
 
 The notice for the Commission’s May 27 meeting stated “LOCATION: Virtual Zoom 
Meeting,” and below that the physical address for city hall, as well as a telephone number. The 
notice did not include any information that would allow a member of the public to access the 
meeting, such as a link to the Zoom meeting, nor did it include clear instructions for how to 
obtain such information. We find that the Commission failed to provide adequate alternative 
means of access to its May 27 meeting, and therefore, the meeting was not accessible to the 
public, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.4 See OML 2020-67.5 
 
Next, we consider whether the notice topic “Contract #1 Waste Water Treatment Facility 
Contract: -Change Order #1” was sufficiently detailed. We find that it was not. The Open 
Meeting Law states, in relevant part, that “a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting . . . Notice shall be printed in a legible, easily understandable 
format and shall contain the date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Public 
bodies must list reasonably anticipated topics in a meeting notice with “sufficient specificity to 
reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 
940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include sufficient specificity when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70; OML 2019-77.  
 
Although the topic “Contract #1 Waste Water Treatment Facility Contract: -Change 
Order #1” may have literally identified the contract to be discussed, it did not meaningfully 
identify the contract to the general public. Therefore, we find that the notice failed to contain 
sufficient detail to reasonably advise the public of the anticipated nature of the discussion. See 
OML 2013-55 (finding that the notice topic “FY 2012 Values sent to Warren Group” did not 
 
3 A recording of the Commission’s May 27 meeting may be found at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xBmHoYGhcZ4&list=PLwZ_O3BlFINW55flhcfZKfFXIjTct-
2p8&index=6&t=304s.  
4 Additionally, we note that inclusion of the physical address of city hall immediately under the statement 
“LOCATION: Virtual Zoom Meeting” could cause confusion regarding whether the meeting was being held at a 
physical location that the public may attend in person.  
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
clearly indicate the purpose of the anticipated discussion, and noting that, “[a]lthough the notice 
topics as listed might have been meaningful to Board members and regular Board meeting 
attendees, they were potentially unclear to members of the public unfamiliar with the regular 
matters before the Board.”).  
 
Next, we find that the May 27 meeting notice was sufficiently detailed with respect to the 
notice topic “FY2021 Budget and Rates.” During this portion of the meeting, the Commission 
discussed and voted to approve a revised budget presented by the Mayor and related rate 
increases. The budget was revised at the request of City Council to increase the Commission’s 
stabilization funds. Although the Commission discussed the stabilization funds as part of its 
consideration of the revised budget, the purpose of the discussion was to consider whether to 
approve the revised budget. Although it may have been helpful for the Commission to include 
additional details in the notice, as written the topic was sufficient to inform the public that the 
Commission would be discussing its budget and rates, and therefore met the minimum 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-125.   
 
Finally, we find that the Commission violated the Law by failing to timely respond to the 
Complainant’s June 18 Open Meeting Law complaint. A public body must respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, unless the public body has been granted an 
extension from the Director of the Division of Open Government. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 
CMR 29.05(5). On June 30 the Commission requested an extension of 45 days to respond to the 
June 18 complaint. That same day, our office granted the extension explaining that the 
Commission must respond “within 10 calendar days following its next meeting, but no later than 
August 24th.” The Commission responded to the June 18 complaint on October 9. That same day 
the Commission responded to the present complaint explaining that it had not responded to the 
June 18 complaint earlier because “[t]here was no Sewer Commission Meeting [between June 18 
and August 31].” The Law does not allow the Commission to review and respond to an Open 
Meeting Law complaint whenever it happens to next have a meeting; rather, the Commission is 
required to meet to review and respond to a complaint within 14 business days or within the 
timeframe allowed by our office should an extension of time be granted. The Commission 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to the June 18 complaint until October 9, 
46 days beyond the 45-day extension granted by this office.      
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by failing to provide the public with adequate, alternative means of access to its May 27 
meeting, by posting an insufficiently detailed meeting notice with respect to the topic “Contract 
#1 Waste Water Treatment Facility Contract: -Change Order #1,” and by failing to timely 
respond to the Complainant’s June 18 Open Meeting Law complaint. We order immediate and 
future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be 
considered evidence of intent to violate the Law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Commission 
or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter.    
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
 
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Fall River Sewer Commission (via email: ) 
Collin Dias (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
