===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
June 10, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 80 
 
 
Gary P. Howayeck, Esq. 
Assistant Corporation Counsel 
City of Fall River 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Howayeck:  
 
This office received a complaint from Collin Dias on September 11, 2020, alleging that 
the Fall River City Council Committee on Finance (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on July 29, 
and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated August 18.  The complaint 
alleges that that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law i) when it met in person on July 
28 but did not allow members of the public to physically attend the meeting; ii) by improperly 
amending its notice within 48 hours of the July 28 meeting to include a topic; iii) by convening 
in executive session for an improper purpose on July 28; and iv) by failing to announce that the 
July 28 meeting was being recorded. 
  
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include 
sufficient detail in its July 28 meeting notice.  We find that the Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law in the other ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our 
office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the original and revised notices and the 
executive session minutes of the Committee meeting held on July 28, as well as a video 
recording of the open session of the July 28 meeting.2    
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2020. 
2 A video recording of the July 28 meeting is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHvS3A8W9uY. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  On July 24 at 10:47 A.M., the Committee posted notice for 
a meeting to be held on Tuesday, July 28 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed two topics – Citizens 
Input and an Executive Session “to discuss a plan to address the increase in violent crimes and 
the financial aspects of the Police Department with the Chief of Police and the Mayor.”  The 
notice listed the location of the meeting as City Council Chamber, One Government Center.  The 
notice also included the following statement: “Due to the COVID-19 Essential Services 
Advisory, this meeting is closed to the public.  Meetings will be available for viewing at 
https://frgtv.fredtv.us and Channel 18.”  On July 27 at 12:56 PM., the Committee revised its 
notice to further describe the Executive Session as follows: “Discussion of public safety 
implementation measures with the Fall River Police Department.  Anticipated Executive Session 
pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 30A, § 21(a)(4) to discuss the deployment of 
security personnel or devices, and/or strategies with respect thereto.”   
 
The July 28 meeting was held as planned and the Committee members met in the City 
Council Chamber of One Government Center.  Fall River Government Television recorded and 
broadcasted live the Committee’s meeting.  At the beginning of the meeting, Chair Cliff Ponte 
announced that “any person may make an audio or video recording of this public meeting or may 
transmit the meeting through any medium.  Attendees are therefore advised that such recordings 
or transmissions are being made whether perceived or unperceived by those present and are 
deemed acknowledged and permissible.”     
    
The Committee first met in open session for approximately eight minutes and read two 
letters received from the public.  The Committee then unanimously voted by roll call to enter 
into executive session “pursuant to Chapter “30A, § 21(a)(4) to discuss the deployment of 
security personnel or devices, and/or strategies with respect thereto.”  Chair Ponte stated that the 
Committee would not reconvene in open session but would adjourn the meeting at the conclusion 
of the executive session.  Chair Ponte announced that the Police Chief, Mayor and Director of 
Financial Services would join the Committee in executive session to discuss strategy with 
respect to the activities of the police department that “should not be publicized in the 
community” and that certain information could “endanger the community.”  The Board met in 
executive session for approximately two hours and discussed the use of undercover vehicles, the 
placement of surveillance cameras around the city, police department personnel issues, including 
staffing levels and the use of compensation time, crime statistics for the city, the number and 
types of gangs in the area, the adequacy of police department equipment, and the use and funding 
of body cameras. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. We Find that the Committee’s July 28 Meeting Was Accessible to the 
Public. 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  At the core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
that meetings of public bodies be open and accessible to the public.  G.L. c. 30A, §20(a) (except 
when meeting in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). 
Generally, access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be physically present, as well as 
to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body.  See OML 2020-100; 
2017-135; OML 2016-54.3 
 
On March 10, Governor Charles Baker declared a state of emergency in response to the 
public health emergency created by the outbreak of the 2019 novel Coronavirus (“COVID-19”).  
See Executive Order No. 591 (Mar. 10, 2020).  On March 12, Governor Baker issued an 
executive order temporarily suspending certain provisions of the Open Meeting Law during the 
state of emergency.  See Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, § 20 (Mar. 12, 2020) (the “Executive Order”).  Relevant here, the Executive Order 
temporarily suspends the requirement that meetings be held in locations that are physically 
accessible to the public provided the public body provides adequate, alternative means of public 
access.  The Executive Order provides that “[a]dequate, alternative means of public access shall 
mean measures that provide transparency and permit timely and effective public access to the 
deliberations of the public body . . . [enabling] the public to clearly follow the proceedings of the 
public body while those activities are occurring.”  Executive Order at Section 1.  These measures 
include “providing public access through telephone, internet or satellite enabled audio or video 
conferencing or any other technology.”  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by meeting in 
a location that was closed to the public but then inviting specific individuals to attend that 
meeting.  Here, the meeting location for the July 28 meeting at One Government Center was 
“closed to the public” but real-time access to the meeting was provided on the Fall River 
Government Television website and on Channel 18.  Although the Board may meet in person 
without providing the public physical access to the meeting location, it must then provide the 
public with adequate, alternative access to the meeting, which requires access to the proceedings 
in real time.  See OML 2020-100; Executive Order at Section (1).  We find that the Committee 
provided adequate, alternative access to the July 28 meeting, and did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.   
 
Moreover, although the Executive Order allows a public body to provide access to a 
meeting via “adequate, alternative means,” in lieu of providing in-person access, it does not 
expressly prohibit a public body from allowing some individuals to attend the meeting in person.  
See OML 2020-159.  Here, the Mayor, Police Chief, and Director of Financial Services were 
present for the July 28 meeting because they had been invited to join the Committee in executive 
session.  The Open Meeting Law is silent with respect to who may join a public body in a closed, 
executive session.  A public body is not specifically prohibited from inviting individuals into an 
executive session, especially if individuals have specific expertise on a matter that the public 
body will be discussing.  See OML 2020-159  As such, we find that the Committee did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by allowing three Fall River city officials to attend the July 28 
meeting in person, while requiring other members of the public to view the meeting remotely. 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
II. The Committee Did Not Provide Sufficient Notice Regarding the Executive 
Session Topic But Entered Executive Session for a Proper Purpose.  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in an 
open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public body may enter an 
executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law 
provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body 
have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will 
reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 
2014-94. 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
 
 One permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is “to discuss 
the deployment of security personnel or devices, or strategies with respect thereto.”  G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(4).  Purpose 4 enables a public body to discuss privately those matters involving public 
safety or the security of public property when it believes that publicly disclosing security 
measures would compromise their effectiveness.  See OML 2012-97. 
 
The complaint alleges that the executive session topic listed on the notice for the July 28 
meeting was improperly added within 48 hours of the meeting.  The original notice posted by the 
Committee on July 24 included an executive session topic but did not include the specific 
statutory citation nor a description of the executive session purpose, stating only that the 
discussions in executive session would pertain to “the increase in violent crimes and the financial 
aspects of the Police Department.”  While a public body is not required to provide the specific 
statutory citation of the executive session it plans to convene under, the public body must at least 
provide a sufficient description of the executive session purpose.  See OML 2016-95.  Although 
the topic listed on the notice for the July 28 meeting appears sufficiently descriptive, it does not 
describe the actual discussions that the Committee engaged in during the executive session 
meeting.  When reviewing a meeting notice for sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its 
face, we do not review a meeting notice standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  
Rather, we review what was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was 
sufficiently detailed to make the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2015-101; 
OML 2015-21.  Here, the Committee’s discussions in executive session pertained to public 
safety and the deployment of security personnel or devices, as discussed in more detail below.  
Although the Committee amended the notice and provided additional detail the day before the 
meeting, all anticipated topics must be posted with sufficient specificity on the notice at least 48 
hours before the meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
20(b).  We find that the executive session topic listed on the original notice for the July 28 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
meeting did not offer the public an understanding of the anticipated executive session discussion.  
See OML 2018-80; OML 2014-43. 
   
We next determine whether the discussions in executive session fell within a proper 
statutory purpose.  First, we acknowledge that the task of managing the flow of conversation 
about all manner of public business can be complicated.  Nevertheless, it is incumbent upon the 
public body to carefully monitor the subject matter of discussion when in executive session to 
ensure that topics do not stray from the lawful purpose for which the executive session was 
called.  See OML 2010-6.  We do not, however, individually review every statement made in 
executive session to determine its appropriateness.  Here, the Committee discussed the use of 
undercover vehicles and the placement of surveillance cameras around the city, as well as 
security measures taken by the police department to combat gang activity.  In addition, the 
Committee discussed the use of body cameras and the number of police officers on patrol during 
specific times of the week.  Although the Police Chief raised some collective bargaining issues, 
including the use of compensation time, while discussing the types of patrols (foot and vehicle) 
utilized by the department, on these facts we find that such comments arose in the course of the 
broader discussion of the deployment of security personnel and properly fell within Purpose 4.4  
We remind the Committee that general discussions about staffing levels and personnel matters 
typically are not appropriate for executive session.  See OML 2014-15; OML 2014-42.  Finally, 
we note that in response to questions from the Committee about needed resources, the Police 
Chief shared current crime statistics for the city, including the number of arsons and shootings.  
While discussion of these statistics would not have been appropriate in executive session on its 
own, the statistics were offered by the Police Chief in the context of explaining the placement of 
police officers and equipment throughout the city.  We find that, overall, the discussions in 
executive session were appropriate under Purpose 4 as they related to public safety and the 
deployment of security personnel or devices.  We encourage the Committee to release to the 
public that portion of the July 28 executive session meeting minutes where the Police Chief 
shared with the Committee the then-current factual crime statistics for the city. 
 
III. We Find that the Chair Informed Attendees that the Meeting was Being 
Recorded. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Committee did not make an adequate 
announcement that the July 28 meeting was being recorded.  This allegation is nearly identical to 
those made by Mr. Dias in a complaint against the Fall River Conservation Committee, which 
we addressed in OML 2020-159, and in a complaint against the Fall River City Council 
Subcommittee of Health and Environmental Affairs, which we addressed in OML 2021-39.  For 
the same reasons expressed in those determinations, we also find no violation here as the chair’s 
statement satisfied the requirement that he inform attendees of any recording.  See G.L. c. 30A,  
§ 20(f).  
 
 
 
 
4 Furthermore, the discussion of the collective bargaining concerns independently may have been appropriate for 
executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”), which allows a public body to convene in executive 
session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by providing insufficient detail in the notice for the July 28 meeting with respect to the executive 
session topic to be discussed, but did not violate the Law in the other ways alleged.  We order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that future similar 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Collin Dias – By email only:  
Fall River City Council Committee on Finance c/o Chair Cliff Ponte – By email only: 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
