===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL; (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 22, 2015 
OML 2015-53 
Joseph A. Emerson, Jr., Esq. 
Emerson & Emerson 
33 Whitney Ave 
Westwood, MA 02090 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Dear Attorney Emerson: 
This office received two complaints from Barbara Anzivino, both dated January 
1, 2015, alleging that the Stoughton School Committee (the "Committee") violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaints were originally filed with the 
Committee on October 28, 2014, and the Committee responded in two separate letters 
dated November 11, 2014. The first complaint alleges that the minutes of the 
Committee's June 2, 2014 executive session meeting do not accurately reflect the 
discussions that occurred on that date. The second alleges that the Committee failed to 
respond to Ms. Anzivino's September 11, 2014 request for executive session minutes and 
a copy of a presentation given to the Committee by the Stoughton Teachers Association. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties while we reviewed this 
matter. Following our review, we find that the minutes of the Committee's June 2, 2014 
meeting accurately reflect the discussion that occurred. However, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to Ms. Anzivino's 
request for executive session minutes within the timeframe required by the Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaints filed the Committee, the 
Committee's responses, and the complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed, in camera, the Committee's June 2; July 22 and August 26, 2014 executive 
session minutes. 
FACTS 
The Committee entered into executive session during its June 2, 2014 meeting to 
discuss collective bargaining negotiations with the Stoughton Teachers Association Unit 
SEIJJ 
===PAGE 2===
A ("Unit A"). The Committee denies that it discussed collective bargaining related to the 
Stoughton Teachers Association Unit B ("Unit B") during the executive session, and in 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we credit the Committee's assertion. 
Accordingly, the minutes of the Committee's June 2, 2014 executive session reflect only 
a discussion of the Committee's collective bargaining negotiations with Unit A, and do 
not include any discussion of Unit B. 
The Committee's Negotiations Subcommittee met in executive session on July 
10, 2014 to discuss negotiations with Unit B regarding three Unit B positions. During 
that executive session, the Stoughton Teachers Association made a presentation to the 
Subcommittee regarding the new positions. The full Committee subsequently met in 
executive session on July 22, 2014 and August 26, 2014 to discuss negotiations with Unit 
B regarding the same three positions. During the Committee's September 9, 2014 
meeting, the Committee voted in open session not to fill the three Unit B positions at that 
time. However, the Committee continues to negotiate with Unit B regarding these 
positions. 
On September 11, 2014, Ms. Anzivino submitted to the Committee a written 
request for the minutes of the executive sessions during which the Committee discussed 
its negotiations with the Stoughton Teachers Association Unit B. Having not received a 
response to her request, Ms. Anzivino filed an Open Meeting Law complaint with the 
Committee on October 28, 2014. According to the Committee's response to the 
complaint, negotiations with the Stoughton Teachers Association Unit B regarding the 
three positions remain ongoing. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The Minutes of the Committee's June 2, 2014 Meeting Accurately Reflect the 
Committee's Discussion. 
The first complaint alleges that during the Committee's June 2, 2014 executive 
session, the Committee discussed collective bargaining with the Stoughton Teachers 
Association Unit B, but failed to record this discussion in the meeting minutes. A public 
body must create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive 
sessions. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The minutes must include the meeting "date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." Id. 
During its June 2, 2014 meeting, the Committee entered into executive session to 
discuss collective bargaining negotiations with Unit A. The Committee did not discuss 
collective bargaining related to Unit B. Therefore, we find the minutes to be accurate. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
2. The Committee Failed to Respond to Ms. Anzivino's Request for Executive 
Session Minutes within the Timeframe Required by the Law. 
A public body must respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days 
following the request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2). If the public body has determined, prior 
to the request, that the requested executive session minutes may be released, it should 
respond to the requester directly, notifying him or her whether those minutes are 
available. See OML 2015-9.1 If the body previously determined that the executive 
session minutes should remain confidential because publication would defeat the lawful 
purposes of the executive session, it should respond by stating the reason why the 
minutes continue to be withheld. Id. And if, at the time of a request, the public body has 
not conducted a review of the minutes to determine whether continued nondisclosure is 
warranted, the body must perform such a review and release the minutes, if appropriate, 
no later than its next meeting or within 30 days, whichever occurs first. G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(g)(2). In such circumstances, the body should still respond to the requestor within 10 
days, notifying him or her that it is conducting this review. See OML 2015-9; OML 
2013-99. 
Here, Ms. Anzivino requested the Committee's executive session minutes on 
September 11, 2014. The Committee did not respond to her request until it responded to 
her Open Meeting Law complaint on November 11, 2014. The Committee clearly failed 
to respond to her request within the 10 days required by the Law, and failed to review its 
minutes within the 30 days required by the Law. We therefore find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law. 
3. The Committee may Continue to withhold the Stoughton Teachers Association's 
Presentation and the Minutes of its Executive Sessions Covering the Committee's 
Discussions Regarding Collective Bargaining Strategy with the Stoughton 
Teachers Association Unit B. 
The minutes of any executive session, as well as the notes, documents, and 
exhibits used during the executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public 
as long as "publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no 
longer." Id. at § 22(f). Once the purpose for which the executive session was held has 
been served, the minutes, preparatory materials and documents and exhibits used at the 
session shall be disclosed, "unless the attorney-client privilege or 1 or more of the 
exemptions under [the Public Records Law] apply to withhold these records, or any 
portion thereof, from disclosure." Id. 
The Committee asserts that its negotiations with Unit B regarding the positions at 
issue during its July 10; July 16, and August 26, 2014 executive sessions remain ongoing. 
It contends, therefore, that publicly releasing these executive sessions minutes at this time 
would be detrimental to the Committee's collective bargaining position. Because the 
negotiations with Unit B remain ongoing, we find that the Committee may continue to 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
withhold the executive minutes. Additionally, the Committee and the Negotiations 
Subcommittee may continue to withhold any documents, such as the Stoughton Teachers 
Association presentation, that were used by the Committee or Negotiations 
Subcommittee in those executive sessions. However, we note that the Committee may 
not withhold these minutes indefinitely. At some point, the public interest in 
transparency will outweigh the potential for harm to the public body's future collective 
bargaining position. See OML 2012-41. We encourage the Committee to periodically 
review these minutes to determine whether they may be released. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee's June 2, 2014 executive session minutes accurately 
reflect the Committee's discussion on that date. However, we find that the Committee 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to Ms. Anzivino's request for 
executive session minutes within the timeframe required by the Law. We order the 
Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution 
the Committee that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an 
intentional violation of the Law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this 
letter, please do not hesitate to contact this office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Stoughton School Committee 
Barbara Anzivino 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may 
obtain judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days 
of receipt of a final order. 
4 