===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 134 
 
 
Gregg J. Corbo, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C.  
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: gcorbo@k-plaw.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Corbo: 
This office received a complaint from Mary Dormer on January 28, 2022, alleging that 
the Carver Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about October 29, 2021, and 
you responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated December 10, 2021, following an 
extension of time granted by this office.1  The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board 
deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting.     
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law as alleged.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the complaint, and 
the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also reviewed the notices and 
open session minutes of the Board meetings held on September 28 and October 26, as well as   
video recordings of the September 28 and October 26 meetings.2   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on September 28 is available at: http://area58.tv/video/carver-zoning-
board-of-appeals-2021-09-28/; a video recording of the Board meeting held on October 26 is available at:  
http://area58.tv/video/carver-zoning-board-of-appeals-2021-10-26/ .  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
During a September 28 meeting, the Board held a public hearing to consider a petition 
filed by Save the Pine Barrens, Inc. requesting that the Board enforce certain zoning by-laws that 
prohibit earth removal commercial activity on residential land.  Specifically, the petitioner 
claimed that A.D. Makepeace Company was conducting earth removal activities at several 
locations throughout the Town of Carver without permits or in violation of previously issued 
permits.3  The petitioner maintained that A.D. Makepeace was engaged in commercial earth 
mining resulting in the removal of millions of cubic yards of earth from residential agricultural 
districts resulting in the destruction of natural areas in violation of the Town’s by-laws. 
 
For approximately one hour, the Board discussed whether the matter was properly before 
it procedurally or whether the matter should be heard by the Earth Removal Committee instead.  
The Board heard from legal counsel for both the petitioner and A.D. Makepeace, as well as 
members of the public.  Ultimately, the Board continued the hearing until its next meeting on 
October 26 to allow Save the Pine Barrens and A.D. Makepeace to collaboratively discuss and 
address the concerns raised.  
 
During an October 26 meeting, the Board resumed the public hearing to consider the 
petition filed by Save the Pine Barrens, Inc. requesting that the Board enforce zoning by-laws 
that prohibit earth removal commercial activity on residential land.  The petitioner informed the 
Board that discussions had occurred between Save the Pine Barrens and A.D. Makepeace but 
that a settlement had not been reached and asked the Board to issue a decision on its petition.  
The petitioner further requested that it be allowed to show the Board a five minute video; the 
Board, by a unanimous vote, declined to watch the video.  The Board then closed the hearing and 
declined to issue a cease and desist order against A.D. Makepeace finding that the Board did not 
have subject matter jurisdiction over the petition as it involved a general bylaw rather than a 
zoning bylaw; that the Earth Removal Committee was the enforcement body over this matter; 
and that the petitioner had missed pertinent filing deadlines.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.  
 
The complaint alleges that the Board must have deliberated outside of an open meeting 
because, during the public hearing held on October 26, the Board made a decision to deny the 
petition filed by Save the Pine Barrens “without any public discussion.”  We have stated in prior 
 
3 Between 2008 and 2020, the Carver Earth Removal Committee granted several permits to A.D. Makepeace 
Company for the removal of earth at Federal Street and Hammond Street in the town of Carver.   
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
determinations that agreement without substantive discussion among public body members or 
even the lack of substantive discussion prior to a vote is insufficient to support the inference that 
those members deliberated outside of a noticed meeting.  See OML 2017-125; OML 2017-93; 
OML 2013-128.4  Nevertheless, the Board denies, and we find no evidence, that it discussed the 
matter prior to the October 26 meeting.  Absent specific evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
public body’s version of events that it did not deliberate outside of the October 26 meeting.  See 
OML 2021-30; OML 2015-8; OML 2014-122.   
 
With respect to the complainant’s concern that the Board did not allow Save the Pine 
Barrens to play a video during the October 26 meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not require 
that a public body allow public participation, but rather provides that “[n]o person shall address a 
meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent.”  G.L. c. 30A § 20(f).  The law permits the Chair of the Board to decide who 
may speak at a meeting and for how long.  See OML 2017-189; OML 2014-23; OML 2012-23.  
Here, legal counsel for Save the Pine Barrens spoke to the Board during the meeting but was not 
allowed to play a video.  We do not find a violation of the Open Meeting as it is within the 
Chair’s discretion to allow public participation during a meeting.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.   
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mary Dormer – By email only:  
Carver Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Chair Stephen G. Gray – By email only: 
 
 
Thi
s determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
