===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
April 17,2019 
OML 2019-30
Timothy Luff 
Assistant Superintendent 
Natick Public Schools 
13 East Central Street 
Natick, MA 01760
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint
Dear Assistant Superintendent Luff:
This determination addresses a complaint that Ronald Alexander filed with this office on 
December 31 alleging that the Natick School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Between March and October, Mr. Alexander filed 
approximately 600 separate open meeting law complaints with the Committee. This 
determination addresses complaint #14. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee 
on March 22 and you responded, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated November 29, 
following mediation and then an extension of time granted by our office.2 The complaint alleges 
that, on January 10, Committee members improperly deliberated by email on Committee 
business outside of a noticed meeting.
Following our review, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating by email. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the 
Committee’s response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further 
review. We also reviewed the open session minutes of the Committee’s January 8 and January 
22 meetings; a video recording of the Public Speak portion of the January 8 meeting3; and the 
January 10 email correspondence from Committee Chair Lisa Tabenkin.
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2018.
2 The parties engaged in mediation pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(9), which concluded unsuccessfully in August. This 
office granted the Committee an extension until November 30 to respond to this complaint.
3 The video recording is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p_MRKWdwQZI.

===PAGE 2===
FACTS
We find the facts as follows. The Committee is a five-member public body; thus, three 
members constitute a quorum. During “Public Speak” at a January 8 meeting, a parent stated 
that her child was bullied into suicide. Superintendent Peter Sanchioni immediately told her that 
such comment was out of order and asked her to stop speaking. When she refused to do so, the 
Committee recessed and left the room. The Committee reconvened approximately fifteen 
minutes later and discussed the remaining noticed topics before adjourning.
On January 10 at 4:49 P.M., Chair Lisa Tabenkin sent the following email to the 
Committee and Superintendent Sanchioni:
As I am sure you are all well aware that there has been a lot of talk about what 
happened at our meeting Monday night. There have been some harmful untruths 
being said and I want to clarify these issues for you.
I spoke with our attorney this afternoon and be assured that we did not break any 
OML and did not violate freedom of speech. Public Speak is there for any citizen 
to talk about anything that is happening within the district that is not on the agenda.
People cannot speak about employees of the public schools or any student. That 
violates the individual’s right to privacy which we need to protect. We have 
mechanisms and support in place to help any student that needs it. Public Speak is 
not that.
Please tell anyone that approaches you individual [sic] about this that SC cannot 
talk about personnel or students issue in public. Assure them that we have the 
appropriate supports in place to help all of your students if needed. You can also 
direct them to speak with administration if needed.
I know I do not need to say this but Do not engage on social media. I will be 
making a statement to this at our next SC meeting.
(emphasis in original)
One Committee member responded approximately one hour later, but only to Chair 
Tabenkin and Superintendent Sanchioni.
At the beginning of the Committee’s January 22 meeting, Chair Tabenkin read a 
statement addressing the incident that occurred during the Public Speak portion of the January 8 
meeting. She stated that concerns involving students and personnel would not be allowed during 
Public Speak so as to protect the privacy of those involved and that mechanisms are in place for 
engaging in such discussions outside of a public meeting. Chair Tabenkin further stated that the 
Committee cannot engage with individuals during Public Speak because the topics raised during 
that time have not been included on the posted notice. She then read the portion of the Open 
Meeting Law that explained the parameters of public participation during a meeting and
2

===PAGE 3===
concluded that the Committee would not allow any member of the public to discuss the incident 
that occurred at the January 8 meeting. She welcomed comment on any other matter.
DISCUSSION
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge. 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a pubic 
body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is 
convened. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may 
be discussed at a meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. Id.
The complaint alleges that the Committee deliberated by email on January 10 outside of a 
properly posted meeting. Here, the January 10 email from Chair Tabenkin to the Committee 
discussed the Committee’s overall policy of Public Speak, including how the matter would be 
addressed in the future and opinions on how Committee members should address the matter if 
they were approached by members of the public. The expression of an opinion of one public 
body member on matters within the body’s jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; OML 2015- 
33.4 We find that the January 10 email sent by Chair Tabenkin violated the Open Meeting Law 
because the email reached a quorum of the Committee, discussed the matter involving “Public 
Speak” which was still pending before the Committee and within the Committee’s jurisdiction, 
and offered the Chair’s interpretation of how the matter should be handled going forward. See 
OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wavland. 479 
Mass. 233, 243 (2018). The email went beyond mere scheduling or procedural information that 
the Open Meeting Law permits outside of a public meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18, first clause; 
compare OML 2018-47. Recognizing that it is sometimes difficult to determine whether 
communication constitutes deliberation under the Open Meeting Law, our office cautions public 
bodies on the use of electronic communications. See OML 2014-80; OML 2017-88.
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].” 940 CMR 29.02. An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law. Id. This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Committee that 
deliberating by email among a quorum of members on a matter of Committee business violated
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.
3

===PAGE 4===
the Open Meeting Law. Because we find no evidence that the Committee acted with deliberate 
ignorance of the law and where the Committee had not been notified of its obligations prior to 
the events addressed in this letter, we find that this violation was not intentional.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by deliberating by email. We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We order the Committee to publicly disclose the January 10 email at its 
next meeting.5
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Ronald Alexander
Natick School Committee
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order.
5 The Committee must notify the Attorney General in writing of its compliance with the order to publicly disclose 
the email communications within 30 days of receipt of this letter. See 940 CMR 29.07(4).
4
