===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
May 24, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 74 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Christopher Heep, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington, LLP 
40 Grove Street, Suite #190  
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Heep: 
This office received a complaint from Ranjan Mathew on March 8, 2021, alleging that 
the Carlisle Zoning Board of Appeals (the “ZBA”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the ZBA on February 2, and you responded on 
behalf of the ZBA by letter dated February 9.1 In his complaint, Mr. Mathew alleges that 1) the 
ZBA deliberated outside of a posted meeting in writing a decision letter, and 2) the ZBA 
approved inaccurate minutes for meetings that took place on December 7, 2020, and January 4, 
2021.2, 3 
Following our review, we find that the ZBA did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the ZBA’s response to the 
complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review, including the decision letters from 
the Building Commissioner and ZBA. We communicated by email with Attorney Heep several 
times in March 2021. We also reviewed an additional 22 exhibits that Mr. Mathew submitted to 
us and emailed with Mr. Mathew on numerous occasions from March through May 2021. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2020. 
2 The complaint also alleges that the ZBA’s January 4, 2021 decision letter is inaccurate. We note that, even if true, 
this allegation would not constitute a violation of G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Accordingly, we decline to review it. See 
OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 We also decline to review any additional allegations contained in the request for further review that were not 
included in the original complaints filed with the public body. Our office does not conduct broad audits of public 
bodies and will address only specific allegations made in an Open Meeting Law complaint. See OML 2020-2; OML 
Declination 4-22-15 (Natick Economic Development Committee). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Finally, we reviewed the audio recordings and minutes from the ZBA’s December 7, 2020, and 
January 4, 2021, meetings.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. In the fall of 2020, Mr. Mathew requested that the Carlisle 
Building Commissioner enforce the Carlisle Zoning Bylaw as to alleged business activities of 
Mr. Mathew’s neighbors, the Svateks. The Mathews and Savateks share a common driveway to 
access their respective properties in the Town. The Mathews own the parcel under the common 
driveway and the Svateks have an easement to use the driveway to reach their otherwise-
landlocked property. Mr. Mathew sought enforcement regarding two businesses the Svateks 
were operating at the property, Carlisle Veterinary Services and Storyline Farms, without a 
special permit. In an October 8 letter, the Building Commissioner declined to take any 
enforcement action, stating that the two businesses were so limited in scope that they did not 
require a special permit to continue the present operations under the Bylaw.  
On October 30, Mary and Ranjan Mathew appealed the Building Commissioner’s 
decision to the ZBA. On December 7, the ZBA held a public hearing regarding the issue via 
Zoom, which was continued to a subsequent meeting. On December 11, all members of the ZBA 
attended a site visit on the Svateks’ property. On January 4, 2021, the ZBA re-opened the public 
hearing. At the end of the public hearing, the ZBA voted unanimously to affirm the Building 
Commissioner’s prior decision. On January 19, the ZBA issued a decision letter summarizing the 
ZBA’s consideration of the Mathews’ appeal and documenting the ZBA’s denial of the 
Mathews’ appeal.  
DISCUSSION 
1. The ZBA Did Not Deliberate Outside of a Posted Meeting Regarding the January 19 
Decision Letter.  
 The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by 
a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The 
Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of other 
procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on business within a body’s jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other members respond. See OML 2020-136; OML 2019-144.4 For the 
purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public 
body. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
 
4 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 On January 19, the ZBA issued a decision letter resolving the Mathews’ appeal. Because 
the decision letter was signed by all three members of the ZBA, Mr. Mathew alleges that a 
quorum of the ZBA communicated outside of a posted meeting in order to write and sign this 
letter. In its response, the ZBA explains that the ZBA’s Administrative Assistant and Town 
Counsel wrote the decision letter after the ZBA’s January 4 hearing. The ZBA’s Counsel further 
explained, in response to our follow up questions, that the ZBA’s Administrative Assistant 
arranged to meet each ZBA member individually to sign the final decision and that no ZBA 
member offered changes or input to the final written decision when they signed it. Absent 
evidence to the contrary, we credit the ZBA’s explanation of the facts. See OML 2020-94; OML 
2019-132. We therefore find that the ZBA did not deliberate outside of a posted meeting 
regarding the January 19 decision letter, as a quorum of the ZBA did not discuss the letter 
outside of a posted meeting.  
2. The ZBA’s December 7, 2020, and January 4, 2021, Meeting Minutes Substantially 
Complied with the Accuracy Requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
 The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the 
members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents 
and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, 
including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a) (emphasis added). When reviewing 
minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial compliance with the 
accuracy requirement. See OML 2021-13; OML 2017-104. By substantial compliance, we mean 
that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a member of the public who 
did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear understanding of what 
occurred. See OML 2019-145; OML 2012-106. Although a transcript of the discussions is not 
required, and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented, minutes 
must include a substantive summary of the discussion on each topic. See OML 2018-8; OML 
2012-29. 
 Mr. Mathew alleges in his complaint that the ZBA’s December 7, 2020, and January 4, 
2021, meeting minutes are inaccurate in that the minutes misstate the Mathews’ position 
regarding the Svateks’ businesses. In particular, Mr. Mathew asserts that the December 7 
meeting minutes contain the follow inaccurate sentence as part of a summary of the Mathews’ 
attorney’s comments, “The veterinary service can operate from the barn, there cannot be any 
visible evidence of conduct at the property. While the equipment and boxes at the end of the 
driveway are visible evidence of a business.”5 From listening to the audio recording, we find that 
the Mathews’ attorney stated the following about the veterinary business:  
The veterinary service - they can certainly have an office inside their 
house - but they cannot have any visible evidence of the conduct of 
the [veterinary] business at that property and the equipment that is 
 
5 Mr. Mathew alleges that this portion of the minutes was adapted by the ZBA in its final decision letter to read: 
“They [the Mathews] agree that a veterinary service can operate from the barn, but there cannot be any evidence of 
the business operating at the property,” which was not an accurate statement of the Matthews’ position as expressed 
during the December 7 meeting. The Open Meeting Law does not address, and the Division of Open Government 
does not review, the accuracy of statements made in the decision. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
used or the boxes that are at the end of the driveway - that may not 
be offensive to some - are visible evidence of the conduct of a 
business outside the house  and I would say are not a permissible 
home occupation.  
 The Open Meeting Law does not require that meeting minutes be a transcript of the 
discussions held, nor that they include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; 
OML 2011-55. In prior determinations, we have not required the level of detail and precision 
that Mr. Mathew seeks here. See OML 2019-136; OML 2016-40. We find that the ZBA’s 
December 7, 2020, meeting minutes accurately summarized, with sufficient detail, the discussion 
that occurred. The ZBA’s January 4, 2021, meeting minutes provide equally detailed summaries 
of the second portion of the public hearing. Therefore, we find that the ZBA substantially 
complied with the Open Meeting Law’s requirement regarding accurate and sufficiently detailed 
meeting minutes, and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the ZBA did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
ZBA. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: R
anjan Mathew (via e -mail: ) 
 C arlisle Zoning Board of Appeals (via e -mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
Th
is determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
