===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
December 15, 2014 
OML 2014-145 
Elizabeth A. Lane, Esq. 
Kopelman and Paige, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lane; 
This office received a complaint from Mr. David Osborne, dated July 7, alleging that the 
Winthrop Town Council (the Council) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 
The complaint was originally filed with the Council on June 19, and you responded on behalf of 
the Council in a letter dated July 3. In his complaint, Mr. Osborne alleges that the Council failed 
to sufficiently state the purpose for an executive session. Subsequently, Mr. Osborne filed a 
second complaint with the Council on July 28, and a second request for further review with our 
office on August 22, alleging that the Council failed to discuss his original complaint during a 
meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
with respect to its June 17 executive session, but did fail to follow proper procedure in 
responding to the complaint about that meeting. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the 
complaints and requests for further review; the Council's response; and the notice, agenda, and 
open session meeting minutes for a Council meeting held on June 17. Additionally, we 
reviewed, in camera, drafts of executive session minutes from the June 17 meeting. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a nine-member public body which meets at 
regular intervals to discuss matters of town governance. At issue is a meeting that took place on 
June 17. The agenda posted prior to the meeting reads, in pertinent part, as follows: "The 
council anticipates going into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to potential 
litigation and ongoing litigation. Discussion of these matters in an open meeting could have 
detrimental effect on the negotiation process." 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2014. 
o 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
===PAGE 2===
During this meeting, the Council entered executive session twice. The minutes reflect 
that the first executive session took place right after the open session began and was announced 
as follows: "Council President Gill requests motion to go in to Executive Session to discuss 
strategy with respect to potential litigation. Discussion of these matters in an open session could 
have detrimental effect on the negotiation process." The motion to enter executive session 
passed unanimously. Following this executive session discussion, the Council resumed its 
meeting in open session. 
Towards the end of the meeting, another motion was made to enter into executive 
session. The minutes reflect the following: "The council anticipates going into executive session 
to discuss strategy with respect to potential litigation and ongoing litigation. Discussion of these 
matters in an open meeting could have detrimental effect on the negotiation process." It was 
stated that the Council would resume in open session following the executive session only for the 
purpose of adjourning the meeting. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be conducted in an open 
session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20-21. Public bodies may enter a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, provided that 
the chair of the public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
"stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). This level of detail must also be 
included in the meeting notice. See OML 2011-15. One permissible reason to hold an executive 
session is "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (Purpose 3). The mere possibility of 
litigation is not sufficient to invoke executive session Purpose 3. See OML 2012-5; OML 2011-
30. Litigation must be pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably 
likely. See Perrvman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 
2012-43. When entering into executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should 
identify the litigation matter or bargaining unit that it intends to discuss, if doing so will not 
compromise the executive session purpose. See OML 2013-91. 
Because the minutes of the June 17 executive session have not been publicly disclosed by 
the Council, we do not recount the details of the litigation matters discussed. We note, though, 
that three topics were discussed in executive session involving both anticipated and ongoing 
litigation. Furthermore, we find that naming the parties involved in these matters would have 
compromised the Council's litigating position. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). We therefore find that 
the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to its June 17 meeting. 
However, we find that the Council failed to respond to the complaint about the June 17 
meeting in the manner prescribed by law. The Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 days 
of receipt of a complaint, the public body must review the complaint's allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a description 
of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). Mr. Osborne filed his 
original complaint with the Council on June 19. The Council responded via its attorney on July 
3, which was within with the required time period. However, it appears from our review that the 
===PAGE 3===
Council passed the complaint along to its attorney without first reviewing the allegations during 
a meeting. While we applaud the Council's efforts to respond quickly to Mr. Osborne's 
complaint, we find that its failure to discuss the complaint violated the Open Meeting Law. See 
940 CMR 29.05(5). Proper procedure would have been for the Council to review the complaint 
before authorizing legal counsel to respond on its behalf.2 See OML 2012-95; OML 2012-90; 
OML 2011-6. Furthermore, we note that the Council did not respond to Mr. Osborne's second 
complaint, as required by the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). Failure to respond 
to an Open Meeting Law complaint is itself a violation of the law. See OML 2014-78; OML 
2014-15. We therefore find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law as alleged in the 
second complaint. 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law with respect to its June 17 executive session, but did fail to follow proper procedure in 
responding to that complaint about that meeting. We order immediate and future compliance 
with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that future similar violations may be evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: David Osborne 
Winthrop Town Council 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 We note that a public body may meet in executive session to review an Open Meeting Law complaint, if it so 
chooses. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2013-82. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 