===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 4, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 45 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Rian R. Holmquest 
MiyaresHarrington 
rholmquest@miyares-harrington.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Holmquest: 
 
This office received a complaint from Timothy Toth, a member of the Templeton Select 
Board (the “Board”), on December 11, 2024,1 alleging that the Board violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.2 The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about 
October 22, and you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated November 8. We 
understand the complaint to allege that, with respect to the Board’s October 23 meeting, 1) the 
notice was not posted to the Town’s official notice posting location; 2) the location of the 
meeting was unclear on the notice; and 3) the complainant did not receive a “meeting packet” or 
a copy of the notice, in violation of the Board’s Operating Procedure Policy. The complaint also 
alleges that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes of its August 28 meeting. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes of its 
August 28 meeting. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to 
the notice for its October 23 meeting. Finally, we decline to review whether the Board violated 
its own policy by failing to provide a copy of the meeting packet and notice to the Complainant. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s 
 
1 All dates are in 2024, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint specifically alleges that the Board Chair and Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to public bodies and individuals acting in their capacity as public body 
members; it does not apply to town officials, employees, or other individuals not acting as members of a public 
body. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Because the Town Administrator is not a member of the Board, we decline to 
review whether the Town Administrator violated the Open Meeting Law.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
response, the request for further review, and the notice and minutes of the Board’s October 23 
meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Town of Templeton’s official notice posting 
location has been its site on mytowngovernment.org since October of 2013. On October 17, 
2024, the Board posted notice to the Templeton page of mytowngovernment.org for a meeting to 
be held on October 23 at 5:00 p.m. The notice stated that the meeting would be held in the 
Narragansett Regional Middle School Auditorium, located at 460 Baldwinville Rd., 
Baldwinville, MA. Among other topics, the notice included the topic “Approval of Minutes of 
Prior Meetings: 8/28/24.” 
 
The webpage where the notice of the October 23 meeting was posted includes several 
fields; in particular, fields labeled “location” and “agenda.” When the notice was originally 
posted, the “location” field listed the meeting location as the Narragansett Regional Middle 
School Gymnasium, located at 460 Baldwinville Rd., Baldwinville, MA, while the “agenda” 
field listed the meeting location as the Narragansett Regional Middle School Auditorium, at the 
same street address. The “location” field was later updated on October 22 to list the Auditorium 
rather than Gymnasium.  
 
The October 23 meeting was held as scheduled. During the meeting the Board reviewed 
and approved the minutes of its August 28 meeting. The October 23 meeting was the fourth 
meeting following the August 28 meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A public body must “post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, 
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The notice must include 
the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a list of the topics that the chair, and any other 
individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. 
See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.3 For local public bodies, notices are 
“filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all 
hours in or on the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). 
Alternatively, a municipality may designate a website as the official notice posting location for 
all public bodies within the municipality. 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). A municipality may only have 
one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its website as its notice posting location, 
then that is the official location for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law. See 940 
CMR 29.03(2)(b)(3) & (2)(c).  
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions . . . .” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Law 
further requires that minutes “of all open sessions shall be created and approved in a timely 
manner.” G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c). The Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law regulations define 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
“timely manner” as being “within the next three public body meetings or within 30 days, 
whichever is later, unless the public body can show good cause for further delay.” 940 CMR 
29.11(2); see OML 2018-48. Whenever possible, we encourage “public bodies to approve 
minutes at the next meeting.” 940 CMR 29.11(2). 
 
First, the complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because it 
posted notice of its October 23 meeting to the Templeton page of mytowngovernment.org rather 
than to www.templetonma.gov. Because the mytowngovernment.org site is the Town’s official 
notice posting location we find no violation with respect to this allegation.  
 
Second, the complaint alleges that the location of the meeting was unclear because the 
“location” field on the webpage where the notice was posted stated that the meeting would be 
held in the gymnasium of the regional middle school and the “agenda” field stated that the 
meeting would be held in the auditorium of the regional middle school. The Board explains that 
the initial reference to the gymnasium was a clerical error that was corrected on October 22. We 
find no violation where the notice document itself included the correct room as well as the street 
address, which is the same for both the gymnasium and auditorium, and where there has been no 
suggestion that anyone was in fact confused about the location of the meeting. See OML 2021-
98. Although we find no violation, we do caution the Board to take care to ensure that its 
meeting notices included consistent and clear information. 
 
Third, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely approve the minutes of its 
August 28 meeting. The Board acknowledges that it failed to approve the minutes of its August 
28 meeting within 30 days or three meetings; however, the Board asserts that it had good cause 
for delay because it instead focused on creating a “5-year goal sheet” following its annual retreat 
to discuss priorities for the coming year and that creating this “goal sheet” is an intensive 
process. Although we credit the Board’s explanation, we do not find that the circumstances 
constituted good cause for delay in approving the minutes. We have consistently explained that 
issues of staffing and work volume do not constitute good cause for delay in creating and 
approving meeting minutes. See, e.g., OML 2021-177; OML 2018-83. Because the Board failed 
to approve the minutes of its August 28 meeting within 30 days or three meetings, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law.  
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board violated its Operating Procedure Policy 
when it failed to provide the Complainant with a copy of the meeting packet and notice prior to 
the October 23 meeting. The Division’s statutory authority concerns compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body 
provide a meeting packet or a copy of the meeting notice to any individual prior to the meeting. 4 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25; see also, OML 2021-32 (explaining that public bodies are not 
required to provide copies of documents to the public prior to a meeting). Because an allegation 
that the Board violated its own policy by failing to provide the Complainant with a copy of the 
meeting packet and notice, even if true, would not constitute a violate the Open Meeting Law, 
we decline to review this allegation. See OML Declination 3-22-2021 (declining to review an 
allegation that public body failed to provide individual notice); OML 2023-230 (declining to 
 
4 The Open Meeting Law does require individual written notice to any individual who the public body intends to 
discuss in executive session under G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
===PAGE 4===
review whether public body failed to uphold the town's charter and violated its own policies and
procedures).
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by
failing to timely approve the minutes of its August 28 meeting. We order the Board's immediate
and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that a finding of similar
violations in the future may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the Law. Because the
minutes of the August 28 meeting have now been approved, we do not order further remedial
action. We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the notice
for its October 23 meeting. Finally, we decline to review whether the Board violated its own
policy by failing to provide a copy of the meeting packet and notice to the Complainant.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board of with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 it you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Michael Currie, Chair, Templeton Select Board (via email: mcurrie@TempletonMA.gov)
Carol Harris, Town Clerk (via email: charris@templetonma.gov)
Timothy Toth (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.