===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 11, 2017 
OML 2017-7 
Fairhaven Board of Selectmen 
c/o Mark Rees 
Fairhaven Town Administrator 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Mr. Rees: 
This office received three complaints from Patrick Fliggins on June 24, alleging that 
the Fairhaven Board of Selectmen (the Board) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25.1 The complaints were originally filed with the Board on or about June 6 and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter, which we received on June 27. All three 
complaints allege that the Board's May 23, May 27, and June 6 meeting notices were posted 
on a bulletin board at Town Hall that was not accessible to people with disabilities and that 
those meetings were held in a location that was not accessible to people with disabilities. In 
addition, the complaints allege that the anticipated executive session topics listed on the 
meeting notices lacked sufficient detail. Specifically, the complaints allege that the executive 
session topics on the May 23 and June 6 meeting notices failed to indicate on which statutory 
purpose it planned to rely in convening in executive session and failed to indicate that holding 
a meeting in open session would be detrimental to the Board's litigating position. The third 
complaint alleges that the executive session topic on the May 27 meeting notice failed to 
include any detail about the anticipated executive session. 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting its meeting notices in a location that was not accessible to everyone, a violation which 
is now in the process of correction. We find no violation with respect to the other two 
allegations. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board's 
response to the complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. 
We also reviewed the notices and open and executive session minutes from Board meetings 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
held on May 23, May 27, and June 6. Finally, we spoke by telephone with Anne O'Brien, the 
Board's Administrative Assistant, on August 25, October 4, and November 10. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The Board held meetings on May 23, May 27, and June 
6 in its usual meeting location: the Banquet Room at Town Hall. In order to access the 
Banquet Room, which is on the first floor, the public must go through two different sets of 
closed doors which must be manually opened. The Board posted notices for these meetings in 
the usual notice posting location: a bulletin board at the main entrance at Town Hall. In order 
to access the bulletin board, the public must navigate five or six steps. Upon the filing of 
these complaints, the Board added buttons to allow any member of the public, including those 
with mobility impairment, to open the doors to the Banquet Room unassisted. The Town also 
acknowledges that its present notice posting location is not accessible to people with 
disabilities and plans to adopt the Town website as the official notice posting location by early 
2017. In the meantime, the Board has hired a contractor to build a bulletin board at the base 
of the handicapped access ramp to Town Hall. 
The Board held executive sessions during its May 23 and June 6 meetings, but not 
during its May 27 meeting. The May 23 meeting notice, timely posted on May 17, listed the 
executive session topics below the heading, "Executive Session- Pursuant to MGL Ch. 3 OA 
§21," as "1. Potential Litigation- Disposal service; 2. Potential Litigation - 258E Order." 
During the executive session, the Board discussed the topics as described on the notice and in 
the announcement prior to the executive session. 
The June 6 notice, timely posted on June 2, listed the executive sessions topics below 
the heading, "Executive Session- Pursuant to MGL Ch. 30A § 21," as follows: 
1. 7:30 p.m. - Meeting with Town Counsel re: North Street access litigation 
(executive session) 
2. 8:00 p.m. - Joint meeting with BPW re: collective bargaining (executive session) 
3. 8:30 p.m. - Contract negotiations - Town Administrator (executive session) 
Prior to convening in executive session, the Board approved a motion to convene in 
executive session "pursuant to MGL ch. 30a section 21, for collective bargaining and contract 
negotiations (Town Administrator and Town Accountant)."2 During the executive session, 
the Board discussed the topics as described in open session immediately preceding the closed 
door session. The Board did not discuss the other executive session topics listed on the 
notice. 
2 We remind the Board that it must also announce whether it will reconvene in open session following the 
executive session. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(4). 
2 
===PAGE 3===
DISCUSSION 
I. The Town's Current Notice Posting Location Is Not Accessible to Everyone. 
The complaints allege that the Town's notice posting location is not accessible to 
persons with mobility impairment. The Open Meeting Law requires that the municipal clerk 
post notice of meetings in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on 
the municipal building in which the clerk's office is located. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). If such 
notice is not conspicuously visible to the public during hours when the clerk's office is closed, 
such notice shall also be made available through one of the alternative methods approved by 
the Attorney General under 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). A description of such alternative method, 
sufficient to allow members of the public to obtain notice through such method, shall be 
posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours on or adjacent to the main 
and handicapped accessible entrances to the municipal building in which the clerk's office is 
located. 940 CMR 29.03(1). The Attorney General has determined that posting meeting 
notices to a municipal website provides effective notice to the public. 940 CMR 29.03(2). 
Adoption of an alternative posting location requires notice to this office. 940 CMR. 
29.03(1 )(c). 
We recognize that the Board is not responsible for posting its notices, but rather it is 
the Town Clerk's responsibility. However, compliance with the Open Meeting Law's notice 
posting requirements remains with the Board. See OML 2016-87. Accordingly, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the bulletin board at the entrance to Town 
Hall is placed at the top of several stairs, which restricts independent access to the notice 
posting location. See OML 2014-65; OML 2013-109. The Board has constructed a new 
bulletin board to be installed in an accessible location at Town Hall. As of today's date, the 
Town informed our office that it would be installed in the coming days. We commend the 
Town for pledging to correct the violation. 
II. The Board's Meeting Location is Now Accessible to Evervone. 
The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a public body must be open to the 
public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2012-66.3 In addition, for a meeting to be truly "open to the 
public," it must be held at a location that is accessible to persons with disabilities. G.L. 
c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2012-49 (stating that meetings of public bodies must be held in 
locations that are compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA")). 
The complaints allege that the Board's meeting location does not comply with the 
Open Meeting Law and the ADA. Although the Banquet Room required assistance to enter 
through two separate sets of doors, we are unable to determine whether it meets the minimum 
requirements of the ADA without conducting a further inspection. We decline to do so in this 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
w w w. mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
case, however, because the Board has already taken steps to make the Banquet Room 
independently accessible to everyone as the doors now automatically open when prompted. 
According to the Attorney General's Civil Rights Division, this alteration complies with the 
ADA.4 Because we are not conducting an inspection of the meeting room in light of the 
Board's corrective action, we decline to find a violation. We commend the Board for taking 
prompt action in response to these complaints to address any potential violation. 
III. The Board's Executive Session Topics Were Sufficiently Detailed. 
Before entering into executive session, the chair must "state the purpose for the 
executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose 
for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). A public body may 
enter executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. BOA, § 21(a). One such 
purpose permits a public, "to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating 
position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). 
The complaints allege that the topics should have included the statutory citation for the 
purpose upon which it relied for convening in executive session and should have included the 
declaration that having this discussion in open session would be detrimental to the Board's 
litigating position. Because the Board did not convene in executive session on May 27, we 
find no violation with respect to the sufficiency of the executive session topics listed on that 
notice. When a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body 
cannot violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to that notice topic, even if it would have 
been insufficiently detailed had the public body proceeded with its deliberation. See OML 
2015-63; OML 2014-81. 
With respect to the executive session topics listed on the Board's May 23 and June 6 
meeting notices, we find that, although more detail would have been useful to the public, the 
executive session topics were sufficient. The topics as listed, "Potential Litigation- Disposal 
service;" "Potential Litigation - 258E Order;" "Contract negotiations - Town Administrator 
(executive session)," described the nature of the discussion (e^g., potential litigation) and the 
specific topic to be discussed (e.g.. disposal service). The Open Meeting Law does not 
require the statutory citation, but rather requires that the executive session topics include as 
much detail as possible without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called. See District Attorney for N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 
567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary 
under the open meeting law because that is the only notification given to the public that the 
school committee would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know 
if the reason for doing so was proper or improper."); G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). Furthermore, the declaration that having a discussion about pending 
litigation in open session would be detrimental to the Board's litigating position must be 
4 The Civil Rights Division enforces federal and state laws protecting the rights of individuals with disabilities, 
including Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Massachusetts Public Accommodation 
Law, G.L. c. 272, §§ 92A, 98, and 92A, and the Massachusetts Equal Rights Act, G.L. c. 93, § 103. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
announced in open session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). This declaration does not need to be 
listed on the notice. Accordingly, we find no violation in this regard. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
by posting its notices in a location that was not accessible to everyone, including people with 
disabilities. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
5 