===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 8, 2013 
OML 2013 - 58 
Heather A. Engman 
Board Counsel 
Board of Registration in Pharmacy 
239 Causeway Street 
Suite 500 
Boston, MA 02114 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Engman: 
Our office received two complaints filed by Todd Wallack, on behalf of the 
Boston Globe, dated January 4, 2013, alleging that the Board of Registration in Pharmacy 
(the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the 
complaints allege that the Board failed to give the public notice of meetings held on or 
about October 22, 2012 and November 1, 2012. The complaints were filed with the 
Board on November 11, 2012. The Board responded to the complaints on or about 
December 31, 2012, following an extension of time granted by our office. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law because the Board's October 22, 2012 meeting was exempt by statute from the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law and because the Board's November 11, 2012 
meeting was a valid emergency meeting. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
November 11, 2012 complaints filed with the Board; the Board's December 31, 2012 
response; and the January 4, 2013 complaints filed with our office. Additionally, we 
reviewed the notice and minutes of the Board's November 1, 2012 meeting. Finally, on 
February 6, 2013 we interviewed by telephone Department of Public Health General 
Counsel Donna Levin and Chief Board Prosecutor James Lavery. 
FACTS  
In the Fall of 2012, there was a national outbreak of fungal meningitis. The 
outbreak was traced to the New England Compounding Center (NECC) in Framingham, 
Massachusetts. The Board held a meeting on October 22, 2012 to address issues related 
to the outbreak. There was no notice posted for this meeting, and the public was not 
1 
ca 
===PAGE 2===
permitted to attend. Because the Board maintains that the discussion that occurred during 
this meeting was confidential, we do not describe what occurred in detail in this letter. 
However, during the meeting, Department of Public Health staff spoke with the Board 
members. The discussion involved the status of pharmacy licenses for NECC and three 
primary pharmacists, specifically, whether to negotiate settlements or initiate a formal 
order to show cause. 
The Board met again on November 1, 2012. The Board posted notice for this 
meeting on its website at 1:30 PM on October 31, 2012, approximately 19.5 hours prior 
to the meeting. The notice identified the meeting as an "emergency meeting," and listed 
the topic for discussion as "Emergency Regulations: Review and discussion of proposed 
emergency regulations amending 247 CMR: Board of Registration in Pharmacy." 
According to the Board, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health developed 
emergency regulations to immediately give the Board and the Board's President the 
authority to issue cease and desist notices if a pharmacist or pharmacy presented an 
immediate threat to public health, safety, and welfare. The emergency regulations also 
set forth reporting requirements so that the Board could learn as quickly as possible the 
volume and distribution of sterile compounding pharmacies, as well as disciplinary 
actions, adverse events, and abnormal environmental testing results. From speaking with 
Department of Public Health General Counsel Donna Levin and Chief Board Prosecutor 
James Lavery, we understand that the Department of Public Health worked quickly to 
draft regulations as events regarding NECC were unfolding, and that the Department 
posted notice as soon as they were able to schedule a meeting with the Board members. 
The Board felt that it could not wait an additional 29 hours to hold its meeting because of 
the need to approve immediately regulations that would empower the Board to take 
action against pharmacies that might be endangering the public health. Additionally, 
Hurricane Sandy made landfall around October 29, 2012, further complicating the 
Board's ability to schedule a meeting with its 11 members and provide 48 hours' notice. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a public body be open to 
members of the public, unless the public body convenes in executive session. See G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 20(a}-(b), 21. A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as a "deliberation by a 
public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction; provided, however, 
`meeting' shall not include: . . . (d) a meeting of a quasi-judicial board or commission 
held for the sole purpose of making a decision required in an adjudicatory proceeding 
brought before it." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Additionally, there is a specific law that excludes 
certain activities of the Board from the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 112, § 65C. That 
statute states that "[m]eetings of the boards held for the purpose of conducting 
investigative conferences prior to the issuance of an order to show cause or for purposes 
of discussing terms of a negotiated settlement of a complaint against a licensee shall not 
be considered open meetings within the meaning of [the Open Meeting Law]." 1  G.L. c. 
112, § 65C. 
The statute references "section 11A1/2 of chapter 30A," which was the State Public Open Meeting Law 
2 
===PAGE 3===
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[e]xcept in an emergency, in addition to 
any notice otherwise required by law, a public body shall post notice of every meeting at 
least 48 hours prior to such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. In 
an emergency, a public body shall post notice as soon as reasonably possible prior to such 
meeting." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Open Meeting Law defines an emergency as "a 
sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate 
action." G.L. c. 30A, § 18; 940 CMR 29.02. The burden of justifying the need for an 
emergency meeting falls on the public body. See OML 2012-7. 2  
The first complaint alleges that the Board failed to give the public notice of its 
October 22, 2012 meeting. The Board did not post notice, create minutes, or open the 
meeting to the public. During that meeting, the Board discussed actions regarding the 
pharmacy licenses for NECC and three primary pharmacists, either through negotiated 
settlements or through the initiation of a formal order to show cause. This discussion fit 
squarely within the statute exempting from the Open Meeting Law "[m]eetings of the 
boards held for the purpose of conducting investigative conferences prior to the issuance 
of an order to show cause or for purposes of discussing terms of a negotiated settlement 
of a complaint against a licensee." G.L. c. 112, § 65C. Because the October 22, 2012 
meeting was exempt from the Open Meeting Law's requirements, we find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to post notice 48 hours prior to 
its November 1, 2012 meeting, and that the meeting did not constitute an emergency. 
After speaking with Department of Public Health General Counsel Donna Levin about 
the events leading up to the November 1, 2012 meeting, and the challenge in scheduling a 
meeting in the week that Hurricane Sandy made landfall in New England, we believe that 
the Board posted notice of its November 1, 2012 emergency meeting as soon as it was 
reasonably possible. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). The Department of Public Health worked 
quickly to draft regulations as events regarding NECC were unfolding, and the 
Department posted a notice as soon as they were able to schedule a meeting with the 
Board members. The Department posted notice about 19.5 hours prior to the Board's 
November 1, 2012 meeting, which was open and attended by members of the public. The 
Board felt that it could not wait the additional 29 hours to hold its meeting because of the 
need to approve regulations that would empower the Board to take immediate action 
against pharmacies that might endanger public health. Given the circumstances, and the 
immediate threat to public health and safety, we believe that the Board was justified in 
holding an emergency meeting because there was a generally unexpected set of 
circumstances that demanded immediate action. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18; see also OML 
2011-45 ("Emergency meetings are reserved for circumstances that are unanticipated and 
require an immediate response to, for example, protect public safety or health"). 
prior to July 1, 2010. The current Open Meeting Law is found at G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
2  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. This letter does 
not resolve any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with this office. 
Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions or believe any of 
the facts presented to be inaccurate. 
Sincerely 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Todd Wallack, the Boston Globe 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or 
any member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through 
an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 