===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
MMMISR ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
B OSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY (617) 727-2200 
ATTORNEY GENERAL www.mass.gov/ago 
December 15, 2014 
OML 2014-143 
Thomas Cory, Chair 
Board of Health 
One Government Center 
Fall River, MA 02722 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Cory: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on November 5, alleging that the 
Fall River Board of Health (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint specifically alleges that Board members shared a document with the Board's 
agent and the Board's counsel, and deliberated outside of an open meeting prior to the Board's 
August 5 meeting. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 8. The Board 
responded by letter dated August 26. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the complaint filed with the Board, the Board's 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed 
affidavits signed by two Board members, provided to our office by the Board. 
With few exceptions, members of a public body may not communicate between or among 
a quorum on public business within its jurisdiction outside of a noticed meeting. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18, 20(b); OML 2012-21.2 However, public body members may communicate with individuals 
who are not members of a public body, so long as in doing so they do not facilitate a serial 
deliberation. See OML 2014-93; OML 2014-84. Here, the Board's health agent shared a 
document with the Board members ahead of their August 5 meeting. Two of the Board's three 
members individually and separately met with the health agent and with corporation counsel to 
discuss the document, but they did not propose any changes. The two Board members each 
submitted to our office signed affidavits declaring that they did not communicate either orally or 
1 All dates refer to the year 2014. 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www .mass. go v/ago/openmeeting. 
O 
===PAGE 2===
in writing with any of the other Board members prior to the Board's August 5 meeting. The two 
Board members also assert they did not seek to communicate with other Board members through 
the Board's health agent or counsel. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we credit the 
Board members' statements. Because a quorum of the Board's members did not communicate 
outside of a noticed meeting regarding business within the Board's jurisdiction, we find that 
there was no deliberation and thus no violation of the Open Meeting Law. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. 
We now consider this matter closed. This determination does not address any other 
complaints that may be pending before this office or the Board. Please feel free to contact our 
office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Fall River Board of Health 
Patrick Higgins 
Sincerely, 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 