===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
December 19, 2017 
OML 2017-198 
Jason Buffmgton 
Taunton City Solicitor 
141 Oak Street 
Taunton, MA 02780 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Buffmgton; 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on November 7, alleging that the 
Taunton City Council (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about October 16, and you 
responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Council, by letter dated November 3. In his 
complaint, Mr. Beaty alleges that the Council's September 19 meeting notice failed to 
conspicuously record the date and time that it was posted and failed to list an executive 
session topic. 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint concerns whether the Council's September 19 meeting notice 
conspicuously recorded the date and time that it was posted. As the Board points out in its 
response, while the notice posted on the City website was not date-stamped, the webpage 
containing the link to the notice indicated the date and time that it was posted. This complies 
with the Attorney General's regulations requiring that the date and time that a meeting notice 
is posted be conspicuously recorded on or with the notice. See 940 CMR 29.03(l)(d); OML 
2015-43.2 
The complaint further alleges that the notice failed to list an executive session topic. 
We find that the topic was indeed listed on the notice under the topic, "pg. 2 
1 All dates refer to the year 2017, unless otherwise specified, 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations and declinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
Communication] from City Solicitor-Request to meet in Executive Session on Potential Land 
Acquisition(s) in the vicinity of Leonard Court/Galligan's Court." Enclosed with the notice is 
all of the correspondence for the Council to review. Page 2 is a memorandum from the City 
Solicitor requesting the Council to convene in executive session on September 19 to discuss 
the topic as listed on the notice. 
Public bodies planning to convene in executive session must state the purpose for the 
executive session, both on the meeting notice and during the open session, which must 
include "all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(b), 21(b)(3); see also District Attornev for 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason 
for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the 
only notification given to the public that the school Board would conduct business in private, 
and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
We find that, although the notice, read alone, could cause members of the public to interpret 
the topic as correspondence received, rather than an active discussion topic anticipated for the 
meeting, the topic referenced a memorandum that is attached to the notice which clearly 
indicated a request to convene in executive session during the meeting. Read together, we 
find that the topic was sufficiently specific to indicate to the public that the Council planned 
to convene in executive session to discuss potential land acquisition. See OML 2017-156; 
OML 2016-64. Accordingly, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Council. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
cc: Ronald Beaty 
Taunton City Council 
Sincerely, 
Tlanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
2 