===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
January 24, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 9 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Thomas Delmar, Esq. 
Stoneman, Chandler & Miller, LLP 
99 High Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
TDelmar@SCMLLP.COM 
     
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Delmar: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Whittemore on behalf of Belmont 
Concerned Parents on May 23, 2023, alleging that the Belmont School Committee (the “School 
Committee”), the Belmont Superintendent Search Subcommittee (the “Search Subcommittee”) 
and the Belmont Superintendent Screening Committee (the “Screening Committee”) violated the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaints were filed with the committees and 
the subcommittee on or about March 27, and you responded on their behalf by letter dated April 
14.
1  The complaints allege that the School Committee, the Search Subcommittee and/or the 
Screening Committee: 
 
1. Failed to take or record roll call votes; 
2. Convened in executive session without a valid purpose on November 7, 2022; 
3. Posted insufficiently specific notices for the meeting of November 14, 2022; 
4. Engaged in deliberations outside of a posted meeting; 
5. Created a preliminary screening committee which included more than a quorum of 
the parent public body, and which met in executive session; 
6. Voted to disband the Screening Committee without public notice;  
7. Failed to promptly announce in open session the names of final candidates for 
superintendent that were selected during executive session; 
 
1All dates are in 2023, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
8. Entered executive session on March 7 after the Screening Committee recommended 
final candidates; 
9. Failed to identify finalists by name on notices of meetings of March 16 and March 
17; 
10. Failed to post notice for the March 6 meeting; 
11. Failed to conduct a roll call vote to exit executive session on March 6; 
12. Failed to report in open session actions taken in executive session; 
13. Communicated names of candidates outside of open session; and 
14. Failed to conduct a roll call vote to enter or exit executive session on February 23. 
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter.  Following our 
review, we find that the School Committee and the Screening Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when the Screening Committee provided names of finalists to the School 
Committee in executive session and the School Committee discussed those finalists in executive 
session.  We do not find any violation of the Open Meeting Law on the part of the Search 
Subcommittee.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaints, 
the responses of the School Committee, Search Subcommittee, and the Screening Committee, the 
request for further review, and additional information forwarded by the complainant on or about 
October 10.  We also reviewed the Superintendent Search Update presentation to the School 
Committee, dated January 24.  Lastly, we reviewed meeting notices and minutes, including but 
not limited to: 
 
Notice of School Committee meeting November 7, 2022; 
Notice of School Committee meeting November 14, 2022; 
Notice of Search Subcommittee meeting January 5; 
Minutes of School Committee meeting January 3; 
Minutes of joint meeting of Search Subcommittee and Screening Committee January 23; 
Minutes of School Committee meeting January 24; 
Minutes of Screening Committee meeting March 6; and 
Minutes of School Committee executive session March 7. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  In the fall of 2022, the Superintendent of the Belmont 
School District, John Phelan, announced that he would retire at the end of the 2022-2023 school 
year.  The School Committee established the Search Subcommittee to commence the process of 
hiring a successor.  The two-member Search Subcommittee, consisting of School Committee 
members Meghan Moriarty and Jeffrey Liberty, began meeting in November 2022.  Search 
Subcommittee chair Liberty updated the full School Committee at the latter’s January 3 meeting 
regarding next steps in the search, including creation of a preliminary screening committee.  On 
January 5, the Search Subcommittee approved the charge of the Screening Committee and 
outlined the composition of the Screening Committee, with members to be drawn from the 
School Committee, school staff and the community.  In late January, the Search Subcommittee 
appointed individuals to the Screening Committee and on January 23, the Screening Committee 
elected its officers.  At the January 24 School Committee meeting, Mr. Liberty provided an 
update regarding a search for a new superintendent.  He reported that with the creation of the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Screening Committee, the Search Subcommittee had accomplished its objective.  The School 
Committee voted to disband the Search Subcommittee at that same meeting. 
Through February, the Screening Committee met on several occasions.  At the Screening 
Committee’s February 1 meeting, Chair Rachel Watson noted that the Committee “was set up by 
the School Committee” and encouraged members and the public to bring concerns about the 
process to the School Committee.  On March 6, the Screening Committee convened in executive 
session.  It voted to forward to the School Committee two finalists for the superintendent 
position, identified in the minutes as Applicant #4 and Applicant #12.  Members of the Screening 
Committee reported to the School Committee at the latter’s executive session on March 7.  The 
Screening Committee explained its selection process and relayed the names of the two finalists.  
The “diligence of the Screening Committee was noted and appreciated,” and the School 
Committee (still in executive session) deliberated about the applicants recommended by the 
Screening Committee, as well as other candidates that were not chosen as finalists by the 
Screening Committee.  On March 13, the School Committee announced its selection of finalists 
on the Belmont Public Schools website, under Belmont Public Schools News.
2  The 
announcement listed the three finalists by name and provided a schedule of interviews and public 
forums to be conducted on March 16 and March 17.  At its March 29 meeting, after interviews 
were completed, the School Committee voted to offer the position of superintendent to Dr. Jill 
Geiser, who accepted the offer.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Mr. Whittemore’s allegations are addressed in the order raised in the complaints. 
 
FIRST COMPLAINT 
 
1. We decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 1 as they lack specificity. 
 
The complainant alleges that on “numerous occasions” between November 7, 2022, and 
March 17, 2023, the School Committee failed to comply with “numerous requirements” of the 
Open Meeting Law.  Considering the “extensive nature of the allegations,” Mr. Whittemore 
urges our office to “review all related agendas and minutes during the time period in question.”  
Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, as our office will not conduct 
broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations.  See OML 2023-218; OML 2022-
43; OML 2012-81 (declining to review generalized allegations covering broad time period but 
reviewing minutes that concerned specific matters raised by the complaints).3  Because 
Paragraph 1 contains general allegations, we decline to review it.  To the extent that Paragraph 1 
alludes to specific alleged violations that are detailed elsewhere in the complaints, they are 
addressed below. 
 
2. We decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 2 as they are untimely. 
 
 
2 The announcement can be accessed at https://www.belmont.k12.ma.us/bps/Home/Belmont -Public-Schools-
News/Article/4235/The-Belmont-School-Committee-is-Happy-to-Announce-the-Superintendent-Finalist-C  
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
The complainant alleges that on November 7, 2022, the School Committee improperly 
convened in executive session to “discuss strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with 
non-union personnel: current Superintendent and replacement or interim Superintendent.”  Mr. 
Whittemore maintains that the Open Meeting Law does not allow a public body to convene in 
executive session in preparation for such negotiations where there is not yet a specific candidate 
with whom to negotiate.   
 
A complaint under the Open Meeting Law complaint “shall be filed within 30 days of the 
date of the alleged violation.”  G.L. c. 30A, §23(b).  If the alleged violation could not reasonably 
have been known at the time it occurred, then the complaint must be filed within 30 days of the 
date it should reasonably have been discovered.  940 CMR 29.05(4).  When an alleged violation 
occurs during an open meeting, it is reasonably discoverable at the time it occurs.  See OML 
2023-191; OML 2023-17. 
 
At the open session of its November 7, 2022, meeting, the School Committee moved to 
convene in executive session to discuss strategy with regard to contract negotiations with the 
current superintendent and “replacement or interim superintendent.”  At the open session, the 
School Committee also referenced the search for a new superintendent.  A person attending the 
open session could reasonably be expected to understand that the “replacement superintendent” 
had not yet been selected, and that the School Committee was convening in executive session to 
discuss strategy as to negotiations with the as yet unnamed successor superintendent.4  As the 
alleged violation occurred on November 7, 2022, the deadline to file a complaint on this issue 
was December 7, 2022.  The complaint was filed on March 27 and is therefore untimely as to 
this issue.5   
 
3. We decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 3 as they are untimely. 
 
The complainant alleges that the notice for the School Committee’s meeting on 
November 14, 2022, was insufficiently specific as it failed to include a planned vote to form the 
Search Subcommittee, thereby “den[ying] the public the opportunity to be aware of this critical 
step in the Superintendent Search process.”  The alleged violation was reasonably discoverable at 
the time of the open session.  Any complaint alleging that the establishment of a Search 
Subcommittee without explicit notice of same should have been filed on or before December 14, 
2022, the 30
th day after the public meeting.  As the complaint was filed on March 27, it is 
untimely as to this issue.   
 
4. We decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 4 as they lack specificity. 
 
The complainant alleges that the two members of the Search Subcommittee 
communicated with each other outside of a public meeting, thereby violating the Open Meeting 
 
4 Although not dispositive, we also note that the notice for the November 7 meeting  included an executive session to 
discuss, among other things, strategy sessions “in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel: current 
Superintendent and replacement or interim Superintendent.” 
5 As he does elsewhere, the complainant argues here that the deadline did not start to run until the release of 
executive session minutes in June 2023.  Where the facts underlying this allegation were reasonably discoverable on 
the date of the meeting in question, based on information contained in the meeting notice as well as the open session 
announcement, we find this argument unavailing.   
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
Law.  No specific communication is referenced and we will not perform an audit of the Search 
Subcommittee’s communications.  Therefore, we decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 
4.   
 
5. The Screening Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it convened in 
executive session under Purpose 8. 
 
A public body may enter executive session for any of ten purposes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). 
Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which allows a public body to enter 
executive session to “consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a 
preliminary screening committee if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a 
detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, however, that this clause shall not 
apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, to consider and 
interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8).  A 
“Preliminary Screening” is defined as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a 
committee or subcommittee of a public body solely for the purpose of providing to the public 
body a list of those applicants qualified for further consideration or interview.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
18. 
 
To meet in executive session under Purpose 8, a preliminary screening committee must 
consist of fewer than a quorum of the members of the parent body.  See OML 2021-70; OML 
2019-100; OML 2013-80.  The complainant maintains that the two-member Search 
Subcommittee was the parent public body of the Screening Committee.  If so, the Screening 
Committee would contain a quorum of the parent body and would not be allowed to meet in 
executive session under Purpose 8.   
 
We find that the full School Committee, not the Search Subcommittee, was the parent 
public body of the Screening Committee.  The Search Subcommittee appointed members to the 
Screening Committee.  However, the appointing authority need not be the parent body.  See 
OML 2020-85.  Here, the School Committee played the role of the parent body, as the Screening 
Committee reported directly to the School Committee, according to meeting minutes.  See, e.g., 
OML 2020-85.  Indeed, the School Committee disbanded the Search Subcommittee on January 
24, after it had accomplished its objective and before the Screening Committee had begun its 
work.  After the Screening Committee selected two finalists for the position of superintendent, it 
presented its recommendation of finalists to the School Committee (not the Search 
Subcommittee) at its March 7 meeting.  Because the School Committee was the parent body of 
the Screening Committee, and fewer than a quorum of the members of the School Committee 
were appointed to the Screening Committee, there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law 
when the Screening Committee met in executive session under Purpose 8. 
 
6. We decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 6 as they are untimely. 
 
At its January 24 meeting, the School Committee voted to dissolve the Search 
Subcommittee.  The complainant alleges that the notice for the January 24 meeting was 
insufficiently specific because it did not list the vote.  As the alleged violation occurred during 
the open meeting on January 24, the complaint, filed on March 27, was untimely as to this issue. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
7. The Screening Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it failed to 
announce the names of finalists upon returning to open session, following its 
selection of finalists in executive session but did violate the Open Meeting Law when 
it shared the names of finalists at the School Committee’s executive session. 
 
The complainant maintains that the Screening Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it failed to announce the finalists in open session after it made the selection.  The 
Screening Committee denies that it was required to publicly announce the names of the finalists.  
The School Committee publicly announced the names of the finalists after providing 48 hours for 
the finalists to notify “relevant parties.” 
 
Once the preliminary search process is complete, the remainder of the process must be 
conducted in open session.  See OML 2013-155.  After the Screening Committee selected two 
finalists at its March 6 meeting, its communications with the Committee regarding the finalists 
should have occurred during an open meeting.  Id. (“[B]ecause the Committee had concluded the 
preliminary search process by identifying the ‘top three candidates’ during the February 26, 2013 
meeting, the Committee should have provided its preliminary recommendations to the Board 
(during an open meeting) at that point. . . .”)  The complainant argues that as soon as the 
Screening Committee returned to open session at its March 6 meeting, it should have announced 
its recommended finalists.  There is no such requirement in the Open Meeting Law.  However, 
the Screening Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it provided the names of its 
selected finalists to the School Committee in executive session, because following the selection 
of finalists the Screening Committee no longer had a lawful basis for convening in executive 
session under Purpose 8.   
 
8. The School Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it convened in 
executive session on March 7 to discuss finalists that were recommended by the 
Screening Committee. 
 
  After an applicant has passed a preliminary screening and has been referred to the full 
body as a finalist, all further consideration of the applicant must be conducted by the public body 
in open session.  See OML 2021-70; OML 2013-155; OML 2012-90.  The Screening Committee 
selected finalists on March 6.  Further consideration of those finalists was required to be 
conducted in open session.  Instead, the School Committee entered executive session to discuss 
the finalists, in violation of the Open Meeting Law.  
 
In its response, the School Committee acknowledges that it violated the Open Meeting 
Law when it convened in executive session to discuss the finalists recommended by the 
Screening Committee.  As a remedial action, the School Committee has posted minutes of its 
March 7 executive session.  As the complainant has noted, the minutes of the March 7 meeting 
do not identify the finalists by names.  If, during the executive session deliberations, the finalists 
were only referenced by their numerical designation, then the minutes are accurate and 
sufficiently detailed.    The Open Meeting Law does not dictate the content of a discussion at a 
meeting; rather, it requires that meeting minutes accurately summarize what was actually 
discussed.  See OML 2023-35; OML 2022-189; OML 2015-155.  If, however, the finalists were 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
discussed by name in the executive session, then the executive session minutes should be 
amended to reflect the actual discussions that took place.   
 
  Finally, the complainant alleges that the School Committee also violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it failed to take a roll call vote to advance all four semi-finalists to 
interviews.  We agree.  Any vote taken at an executive session must be recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(b).  As the School Committee already has released 
the minutes of its March 7 executive session, we order no further remedial action on this point. 
 
9. The School Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it failed to identify the 
finalists by name in meeting notices. 
 
Meeting notices must include “a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will 
be discussed at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  The list of topics must have sufficient 
specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 
29.03(l)(b).  In general, a public body must include on its meeting notices the names of the 
specific individuals whom the public body will be considered for employment or appointment. 
See OML 2022-85; 2020-80; OML 2016-167.   
 
Notices for the School Committee’s meetings on March 16 and March 17 identified the 
finalists as “Candidate I,” “Candidate II” and “Candidate III.”  Because the School Committee 
failed to include the names of the individuals, it violated the Open Meeting Law.  The School 
Committee argues that the identity of the candidates was readily available elsewhere.  The names 
and the times of interviews of each were posted online at the Belmont Public Schools News.  
However, a meeting notice itself must include the level of specificity that the Open Meeting Law 
requires, without requiring members of the public to search or sift through other documents or 
sources.  See OML 2021-170; OML 2020-31.  By posting notices which omitted required 
information, the School Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
 SECOND COMPLAINT 
 
1. The Screening Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it failed to 
post notice for its March 6 meeting to the Screening Committee’s website.  
 
The complainant alleges that the Screening Committee failed to post notice for its March 
6 meeting.  The Screening Committee responds that notice was posted on March 1.  The crux of 
Mr. Whittemore’s complaint appears to be that notice for the meeting was not posted to the 
Screening Committee’s separate website.  Notices of School Committee meetings are posted to 
www.belmont-ma.gov.  Although public bodies are welcome to post notice of their meetings in 
additional locations if they choose, a municipality has only one official notice posting location 
for purposes of complying with the Open Meeting Law and all meeting notices must be posted in 
that location.  See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(c); OML 2023-201; OML 2022-228; OML 2021-94; OML 
2020-20.  The Screening Committee maintains, and the complainant has not disputed, that notice 
of the meeting was posted to the town’s official posting location.  Therefore, the Screening 
Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law on this point. 
 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
2. The Screening Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law when it exited 
executive session on March 6 without a vote. 
 
The complainant alleges that a vote was required to adjourn the Screening Committee’s 
March 6 meeting, and because the Screening Committee was meeting in executive session, that 
vote was required to be conducted by roll call.  A roll call vote is not required to exit executive 
session.  Cf. G.L. c. 30A, §21(b) (requiring roll call vote to enter executive session).  Moreover, 
no vote is required to adjourn the meeting of a public body.  Although a vote provides a practical 
way to collectively end a meeting, it is not a requirement of the Open Meeting Law.  G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  See also OML 2019-7.  Therefore, the Screening Committee did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law when it exited executive session without any vote. 
 
3. The Screening Committee was not required to report in open session action it took in 
executive session.  
 
The complainant alleges that the Screening Committee violated the Open Meeting Law 
by failing to report to the public the action it took in executive session, upon reconvening in open 
session at its March 6 meeting.  Public bodies must limit executive sessions to one or more of the 
narrow purposes established by statute.  See G.L. c. 30A, §21.  See also, e.g., OML 2020-14 
(“When meeting in executive session, a public body may only address subjects related to the 
narrow executive session purpose the public body cited when entering executive session.”).  If a 
public body has entered executive session for a proper purpose, the deliberations held during that 
executive session may be withheld from disclosure to the public for as long as release may defeat 
the purposes of the executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, §22(f).  To require a public body 
meeting in executive session pursuant to Purpose 8 to report to the public about its executive 
session upon reconvening in open session would either defeat the purpose of the executive 
session or call into question whether the public body articulated a proper purpose to enter 
executive session in the first place.  The Screening Committee was not required to report on its 
actions in executive session and did not violate the Open Meeting Law in not doing so. 
 
4. The Screening Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by conveying the names of 
finalists to the School Committee in executive session. 
 
Paragraph 4 of the second complaint is duplicative of Paragraph 8 of the first complaint.  
The Screening Committee has acknowledged its violation of the Open Meeting Law in failing to 
report the names of finalists in open session. 
 
5. We decline to review the allegations of Paragraph 5 as they are untimely. 
 
Minutes of the Screening Committee’s open session on February 23 note: 
 
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION:  
EXIT EXECUTIVE SESSION: 7:55 - Approved motion made Rachel Watson by 
and seconded by Kim Haley-Jackson to return to open session. 
 
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
It is unclear from the minutes whether the Screening Committee failed to take a roll call 
vote prior to entering executive session or it simply did not record the vote in the minutes.  In 
either event, the complaint is untimely as to this issue.  The failure to conduct a roll call vote in 
open session prior to convening in executive session would have been apparent at the time of the 
open session on February 23.  The complaint should have been filed by March 25.  As it was 
filed March 27, it was untimely.  See G.L. c. 30A, §23(b).  See also, e.g., OML Declination 8-
22-2011 (Crocker Pond Recreation Area Committee) (acknowledging that “[s]trict enforcement 
of filing deadlines may sometimes produce hard results” in case where complaint was filed one 
day late). 
 
The violations were not intentional 
 
Finally, we must determine whether violations found in this determination were, as the 
complainant urges, intentional. See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or 
omission by a public body or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting 
Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An intentional violation may be found where the public body acted 
with deliberate ignorance of the law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain 
conduct violates the Open Meeting Law.  Id.  In supplemental material forwarded to our office 
on or about October 10, the complainant argues that the School Committee was on notice of 
prior violations and therefore the violations alleged in his complaints were intentional.  Mr. 
Whittemore references a letter, which the Town Clerk purportedly sent to the School Committee 
on March 1 “warning of OML violations.”  We have not been provided a copy of that letter and 
cannot verify it cautioned against the specific violations found here.  The complainant also 
references a prior determination that our office issued, OML 2023-55.  However, that 
determination was issued on April 12, after the violations that are the subject of the instant 
determination.  Therefore, our prior determination cannot be relied upon to establish intent.  We 
also decline to order other remedies requested by the complainant, including voiding the School 
Committee’s vote to hire Dr. Geiser as Superintendent. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Screening Committee violated the Open 
Meeting Law when it convened in executive session with the School Committee to provide the 
names of finalists.  We find that the School Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when it 
convened in executive session to discuss finalists that were recommended by the Screening 
Committee, and when it failed to identify the finalists by name in meeting notices.  We 
appreciate that the School Committee has acknowledged that it violated the Open Meeting Law 
at its March 7 meeting and that it voluntarily released minutes of that executive session.  If the 
School Committee discussed finalists by name at its March 7 executive session, we order that the 
School Committee prepare and approve revised minutes of its March 7 executive session, 
reflecting the names of finalists referenced, within 60 days of this letter. We also order 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and caution that a determination 
by our office of a similar violation in the future may be considered evidence of intent to violate 
the Open Meeting Law.   
 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the School 
Committee, Search Subcommittee or Screening Committee or with our office. Please feel free to 
contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Patrick Whittemore (via email: )  
Belmont School Committee (via email: sc@belmontschools.net) 
Belmont Town Clerk (via email: ecushman@belmont-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
